CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1504 TUN
Loan Agreement
(Industrial Finance Project-BDET Component)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE DE TUNISIE
Dated Januar7 25, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1504 TUN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 25, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE DE TUNISIE (BDET) (herein-
after called the Borrower), a Sociftg Anonyme established and
operating under the laws of the Republic of Tunisia.
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing, inter alia, of Part A of the Project described
in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement for specific industrial
development projects and the Bank is hereby agreeing to provide
such assistance;
(B) The Republic of Tunisia (hereinafter called Tunisia or
the Guarantor) has already taken measures aiming at the promotion
of entrepreneurship in its territory, the creation and development
of small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises and the decen-
tralization of investments, through the establishment and opera-
tion of Fonds de Promotion et de Dkcentralisation Industrielle
(FOPRODI);
(C) Tunisia intends to further strengthen the small-scale
industry sector of its economy;
(D) By a loan agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter
called the Tunisia Loan Agreement) between Tunisia and the Bank,
the Bank has granted to Tunisia a loan (hereinafter called the
Tunisia Loan) to assist, along with FOPRODI assistance and Agence
de Promotion des Investissements (API) technical assistance, in
the financing of new projects for small-scale industrial enter-
prises in Tunisia, in accordance with the FOPRODI Scheme, as set
forth in Schedule 2 to the Tunisia Loan Agraement;
(E) Tunisia and BDET have requested the Bank to assist in
the financing, inter alia, of Part B of the Project described in
Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement for the expansion of small-
scale industrial enterprises in Tunisia (in order to complement
the activities of the FOPRODI Scheme), and the Bank is hereby
agreeing to provide such assistance;
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank entering
into this Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to guarantee the
obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan; and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia, of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth, and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Part A of the Loan" means the portion of the proceeds
of the Loan, which may amount to $28,000,000 and be withdrawn,
from time to time, by the Borrower for the purpose of carrying out
Part A of the Project.
(b) "Part B of the Loan" means the portion of the proceeds
of the Loan, which may amount to $2,000,000 and be withdrawn, from
time to time, by the Borrower for the purpose of carrying out Part
B of the Project.
(c) "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be
made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of Part A of the Loan to
an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project and "free-limit
sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a
free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement.
(d) "Investment" means an investment, other than a sub-loan,
made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds
of Part A of the Loan in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project.


﻿-3-
(e) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
the Borrower proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which
it proposes to make or has made an investment.
(f) "Investment Project" means a specific industrial devel-
opment project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise
utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan or investment.
(g) "SSE expansion sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or
proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of Part B
of the Loan to a SSE Expansion for a SSE Expansion Project.
(h) "SSE expansion investment" means an investment, other
than a SSE expansion sub-loan, made or proposed to be made by the
Borrower out of the proceeds of Part B of the Loan in a SSE
Expansion for a SSE Expansion Project.
(i) "SSE Expansion" means a small-scale industrial enter-
prise established prior to the date of this Agreement whose
net fixed assets (before a SSE expansion investment and excluding
working capital and assets in land) are valued at less than
D100,000 in 1976 prices, to which the Borrower proposes to make or
has made a SSE expansion sub-loan or in which it proposes to make
or has made a SSE expansion investment.
(j) "SSE Expansion Project" means a specific development
project in the small-scale industry sector estimated to cost not
more than D200,000 in 1976 prices (including additional working
capital) and whose investment cost per job created or maintained,
estimated in 1976 prices, shall not exceed D4,600. Said Project
shall be carried out by a SSE Expansion utilizing the proceeds of
a SSE expansion sub-loan or SSE expansion investment.
(k) "Dinars" and "D" mean the currency of the Guarantor.
(1) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor.
(m) "Statuts" means the Articles of Incorporation of the
Borrower, as the same may be amended from time to time with the
approval of the Bank.
(n) "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending
and investment policy approved by the Directors of the Borrower
on July 4, 1966, as the same may be amended from time to time with
the approval of the Bank.


﻿-4-
(o) "Prior Loan Agreement" means any outstanding loan
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower dated before the
date of this Agreement and "Prior Loan" means any loan provided
for therein.
(p) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by the Bortower or by any one or
more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or
more of its subsidiaries.
(q) "Government Agreement" means, collectively and sepa-
rately, Convention No. 1 and No. 2 dated November 16, 1965, No. 3
dated March 23, 1966, and Convention dated June 25, 1975, between
the Guarantor and the Borrower as the same may be amended from
time to time.
(r) "Director" means a member of the Board of Directors of
the Borrower referred to under Title III of the Statuts.
(s) "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the
Borrower referred to under Title III of the Statuts.
(t) "Commercial Code" means the Guarantor's Code de Commerce
as promulgated by the Guarantor's Law No. 59-129 of October 5,
1959, as the same may be amended from time to time.
(u) "FOPRODI" means the Fonds de Promotion et de Dfcentrali-
sation Industrielle, a fund financed out of the Guarantor's budget
established and operated under the Guarantor's Law No. 73-82 dated
December 31, 1973 and Decree No. 74-793 dated August 16, 1974, as
amended by Decree No. 77-855 dated October 20, 1977.
(v) "FOPRODI Agreement" means the agreement respectively
entered or to be entered into between the Guarantor's Ministre des
Finances and the Participating Banks, for the management of
FOPRODI, and to be amended pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of
the Tunisia Loan Agreement.
(w) "Participating Banks" mean the following banking insti-
tutions established and operating under the laws of the Republic
of Tunisia: Socift6 Tunisienne de Banque (STB), Union Inter-
nationale de Banque (UIB), Banque Nationale de Tunisie (BNT),
Banque du Sud (BS) and BDET, and any other financial institution
which would accede to the FOPRODI Agreement.


﻿-5-
(x) "FOPRODI Scheme" means the on-lending and administrative
arrangements for the project under the Tunisia Loan Agreement, set
forth in Schedule 2 to said Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty million
dollars ($30,000,000).
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree:
(a) The Borrower may withdraw from the Loan Account for Part
A of the Project, subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c)
and (d) of this Section,
(i) amounts disbursed (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
required to meet expenditures to be made) by the
Borrower under a sub-loan or investment to finance
the reasonable foreigrz currency cost of goods and
services required for the Investment Project and
supplied to the Investment Enterprise from outside
the Guarantor's territory, in respect of which the
withdrawal is requested; and
(ii) the equivalent of seventy per cent (70%) of
amounts disbursed (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
required to meet expenditures to be made) by the
Borrower under a sub-loan or investment to finance
the reasonable cost of goods previously imported in
Tunisia through normal trade channels, or produced
in Tunisia to a substantial extent from compo-
nents or raw materials so imported, and purchased
by an Investment Enterprise to carry out an Invest-
ment Project;
provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of
a sub-loan or investment unless (A) the sub-loan or investment
shall have been approved by the Bank, or (B) the sub-loan shall be
a free-limit sub-loan for which the Bank shall have authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account.


﻿-6-
(b) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of D300,000 equivalent,
when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or of any Prior
Loan for such Investment Project, the foregoing amount being
subject to change from time to time as determined by the Bank.
(c) No withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expendi-
tures made before the date of this Agreement or (ii) expenditures
made by an Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject
to the Bank's approval or in respect of an investment if such
expenditures shall have been made more than ninety days prior
to the date on which the Bank shall have received in respect of
such sub-loan or investment the application and information
required by Section 2.03 (a) of this Agreement or, in respect of a
free-limit sub-loan or a SSE expansion sub-loan or investment,
more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall
have received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan or such SSE
expansion sub-loan or investment the request and information
respectively required by Section 2.03 (b) or Section 2.03 (c)
of this Agreement.
(d) The Borrower may withdraw from the Loan Account, for
Part B of the Project up to an aggregate amount of $2,000,000
equivalent, amounts disbursed under a SSE expansion sub-loan or
SSE expansion investment for goods and services acceptable to the
Bank for a SSE Expansion Project for which the Bank shall have
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account, all in accordance
with Section 2.03 (c) of this Agreement; provided, however, that
for each SSE Expansion Project, withdrawals from the Loan Account
shall not exceed D100,000 in 1976 prices or the equivalent of 50%
of the estimated total cost of the SSE Expansion Project, which-
ever amount is smaller.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than a
free-limit sub-loan) or an investment to the Bank for approval,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, ir form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a description of the
Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed
terms and conditions of the sub-loan or investment, including
the schedule of amortization of the sub-loan or of repayment to
the Bank of the amount of the Loan to be used for the investment;


﻿-7-
and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan; and (ii) the terms and conaditions of the sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawa.s from the Loan Account in respect of Part B of the
Project, &hall contain a statement specifying: (i) the name of
the investor and the economic sub-sector to which the SSE Expan-
sion Project belongs as well as its location; (ii) the number of
jobs to be created or maintained; (iii) the total estimated cost
of the SSE Expansion Project including additional working capital
requirements; (iv) a summary list of goods and services to be
procured for the SSE Expansion Project; (v) the amount and terms
and conditions of the SSE expansion sub-loan or SSE expansion
investment including the schedule of amortization therefor, as
well as the amount, terms and conditions of other sources of
financing; and (vi) an assessment of technical assistance needs
and proposed arrangements to meet them.
(d) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this Section shall be presented
to tne Bank on or before December 31, 1979.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
seven and nine-tenths per cent (7.90%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-9-
Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound techni-
cal, financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate
records; (ii) require that: (1) the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a
reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of
the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare
parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their quality and
the competence of the parties rendering them and (2) such goods
and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with
representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such
goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included in
the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Investment
Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such ri&ks and in such amounts, as shall
be consistent with sound business practice; and (2) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or
repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Bank or
the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and financial condition of
the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from
the Investment Project; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right
of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the
Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its
obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower: (A) shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower, (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project; and (B) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
shall not abrogate or waive any of its rights with respect to a
sub-loan or investment.
(c) The Borrower shall present to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the
Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any sub-loan.


﻿- 10 -
For the purposes of this Section and of Section 3.03, the
terms sub-loan, investment, Investment Enterprise and Investment
Project also include the terms SSE expansion sub-loan, SSE
expansion investment, SSE Expansion and SSE Expansion Project.
Section 3.03. Without limitation or restriction on the                 a
generality of the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement,
the Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree:
(a) any sub-loan or investment (which terms shall, for the
purpose of this Section also include sub-loans or investments
which are not made out of the proceeds of the Loan) will be made
on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written contract
with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal
means, rights adequate to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise
(including, but without limitation, a newly established Investment
Enterprise) to furnish the Borrower as soon as available but in
any case no later than March 31 in each year, copies of its
provisional financial statements to be prepared in accordance with
sound accounting principles consistently applied, and to be in
such detail as the Borrower shall have reasonably requested; and
(ii) require the Investment Enterprise (including but without
limitation a newly established Investment Enterprise) to furnish
the Borrower as soon as available but in any case no later than
June 30 in each year, copies of its financial statements as
certified in accordance with the provisions of the Commercial
Code; and
(b) it shall not abrogate or waive any of its rights with
respect to a sub-loan or investment referred to under paragraph
(a) of this Section.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment
Projects, the sub-loans and investments, the SSE Expansions, the
SSE Expansion Projects, the SSE expansion sub-loans and invest-
ments and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from the
foregoing.                                                                 C
(b) Within six months following the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account in respect of the sub-loans, investments, and SSE
expansion sub-loans and investments, or by such later date as the


﻿- 11 -
Bank shall request, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operations of
the Investment Projects and SSE Expansion Projects, their costs
and the benefits derived and to be derived from them, the perfor-
mance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations
under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions in agreements under which funds have been lent or otherwise
put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor or its
agencies or others for relending, investment or management. The
Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which would
have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or
waiving any material provision of, any such agreement.
Section 3.06. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any
subsidiary, the Borrower shall cause such subsidiary to observe
and perform the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to the
extent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable
thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon such
subsidiary.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes that it shall
not make a sub-loan (which term shall, for the purpose of this
Section, also include sub-loans which are not made out of the
proceeds of the Loan) unless the Borrower has obtained adequate
security to secure such sub-loan.
(b) Without limitation or restriction on the generality of
the provisions of the foregoing paragraph (a) of this Section, the
Borrower undertakes that it shall not make a sub-loan for hotels,
vacation villages or other tourism or recreational facilities
unless such loan has been secured by a valid mortgage or a time-
table for the mortgage validation process has been approved by
the Board of Directors and set forth in the agreement in respect
of said sub-loan.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall prepare and present to the
members of the Board of Directors and to the Bank, by March 31,
1978 or such later date as may be agreed between the Bank and the
Borrower, a plan of action acceptable to the Bank, for its super-
vision division concerning the strengthening of staff and the
improvement of supervision procedures and information flows and


﻿- 12 -
encompassing a comprehensive and detailed work program. Immedi-
ately thereafter, the Borrower shall take appropriate measures to
put this plan of action into effect, taking into account the
recommendations of the Bank.
Section 3.09. The Borrower undertakes in respect of the
project defined in the Tunisia Loan Agreement:
(a) to perform such functions as are described in paragraph
6 of Schedule 2 of the Tunisia Loan Agreement;
(b) to enter into a FOPRODI Agreement with the Guarantor;
and
(c) to establish a special unit adequately staffed to
perform the functions referred to in sub-paragraph (a) above and
to process SSE expansion sub-loans and investments under the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the
Project and of each Investment Project (including its cost and
the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements), and separately, the records
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, for each fiscal year
audited in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank and to all members of the Board of Directors,
as soon as available but in any case not later than five months
aiter the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Borrower and said records and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿- 13 -
(b) For the purposes of Part B of the Project, the Borrower
shall (i) maintain separate records on its operations concerning
small-scale enterprises in such form and in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request; and (ii) furnish such records to
the Bank at its request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt, except as otherwise currently reported or disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any subsidiary as security for any debt,
such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and that
in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory
lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any
subsidiary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at
no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after thp date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall: (a) conduct its operations and affairs in
such manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.06 of
this Agreement; and (b) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
the Borrower's control, be temporarily exceeded, promptly take all
such reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring
such ratio within such limit.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment
in advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of
the Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit


﻿- 14 -
any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring of
such debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its
subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than
eight times the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower
and all its subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or
any subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred, including the amount of any advances
made to the Borrower by the Guarantor to the extent and as long as
any such advances are not converted into the Borrower's equity
capital;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement and any
Prior Loan Agreement) on the date and to the extent the amount of
the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is
outstanding;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Dinars debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes
of servicing such debt;
(d) "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its subsidi-
aries" means the total amount of debt of the Borrower and its
subsidiaries, excluding any debt owed by the Borrower to any
subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the Borrower or to any other
subsidiary; and
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and
all its subsidiaries" means the aggregate of: (i) the unimpaired
paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves (excluding the provi-
sions for possible losses referred to under Section 4.10 of this
Agreement) of the Borrower and its subsidiaries after excluding
therefrom such amounts as shall represent equity interests of the
Borrower in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary in the Borrower
or any other subsidiary; and (ii) the amount of the grant made by
the Guarantor pursuant to the Government Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the currencies (including Dinars) used in its operations.
Section 4.08. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Borrower and its subsidiaries, and the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the
Bank shall reasonably request concerning the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Borrower and its sub-
sidiaries, and the progress of the Project.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's represen-
tatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this
Agreement and any relevant documents.
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall make adequate provision to
cover its possible losses on account of any of its operations
(including, but without limitation, sub-loans and investments),
and shall maintain at all times its provisions for such possible
losses at sufficient levels, all in accordance with sound finan-
cial practices.
Section 4.11. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not make a sub-loan or investment (including, for
the purposes of this Section, any sub-loan or investment which is
not made out of the proceeds of the Loan) if the aggregate amount
of any such sub-loan or investment shall exceed 25% of the consol-
idated capital and surplus of the Borrower and all its subsidiar-
ies (as those terms are defined in paragraph (e) of Section 4.06
of this Agreement).
Section 4.12. The Borrower shall closely monitor its lending
operations (including, but without limitation, sub-loans and
investments) which have been rescheduled and in case more than 15%
of the Borrower's loan portfolio is affected by such reschedulings
in any given fiscal year, the Borrower shall furnish a special
report on rescheduled lending operations to the members of the
Board of Directors.
Section 4.13. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower undertakes that the annual rate of interest to be charged


﻿- 16 -
by the Borrower: (a) on its long-term lending operations (includ-
ing without limitation sub-loans other than SSE expansion sub-
loans), shall be (after any rebate which may be granted by the
Guarantor) maintained at least at one percentage point above the
average annual lending rate charged by Tunisian commercial banks
on their medium-term industrial lending operations at the time of
making the sub-loans; and (b) on its SSE expansion sub-loans,
shall not be less than the average annual lending rate charged by
Tunisian commercial banks on their medium-term lending operations
at the time of making the SSE expansion sub-loan.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Statuts without the
Bank's consent, if such change shall materially and adversely
affect the operations or financial condition of the Borrower;
(c) a change shall have been made in the Statement of
Policy without the Bank's consent, if such change shall materially
and adversely affect the operations or financial condition of the
Borrower;
(d) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower;
(e) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would materially and adversely affect
the conduct of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial
condition or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and
personnel or the carrying out of the Project; and
(f) a default shall occur under the Tunisia Loan Agreement
other than in respect of the payment of principal, interest or any
other charge required thereunder.


﻿- 17 -
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (d) or
paragraph (f) of Section 5.01 shall occur; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (b) or paragraph (c)
or paragraph (e) of Section 5.01 shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the unit referred to in paragraph (c) of Section 3.09 of
this Agreement has been established to the satisfaction of the
Bank; and
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Tunisia Loan Agreement have been fulfilled subject only to the
effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date of April 25, 1978 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Amendments to Prior Loan Agreements
Section 7.01. The parties to this Agreement hereby agree that
the provisions of Sections 4.04, 4.06, 4.10, 4.11 and 4.12 of this
Agreement shall be applicable to any Prior Loan Agreement, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth therein.
ARTICLE VIII
Miscellaneous
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 18 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Banque de Dfveloppement
Economique de Tunisie
68, Avenue Habib Bourguiba
Tunis, Tunisia
Cable address:                      Telex:
SNITUN                              12382 TN
Tunis
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Maurice P. Bart
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE DE TUNISIE
By // Ali Hedda
Authorized Representative


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning June 1, 1982
through June 1, 1990                        1,665,000
On December 1, 1990                              1,695,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 20 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan purs\uant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.80%
More than three years but
not more than five years
before maturity                              3.05%
More than five years but not
more than nine years
before maturity                              5.45%
More than nine years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              6.70%
More than eleven years
before maturity                              7.90%


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions
of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and
the application of such prepayment in addition to, or in
substitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.05."
(2) The words "Investment Projects or SSE Expansion Projects"
are substituted for the words "the Project" at the end of Section
5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (d) of Section 2.03 of the
Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted undL
paragraph (a), paragraph (b) or paragraph (c) of such Section
shall have been received by the Bank in respect of any
portion of the Loan, or having been so received, shall have
been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the
Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d)
the Bank shall have received notice from the Guarantor
pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the
Loan, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower terminate the
right of the Borrower to submit such applications or requests
or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may
be, with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon
the giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan
shall be cancelled."


