Report No. PID9771
Project Name                     Tanzania-Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (RWSS) (@)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Water and Sanitation
Project ID                       TZPE47762
Borrower                         Government of Tanzania (GOT)
Implementing agency              Ministry of Water
Contact person: Mr. Bakari A. Mahiza
Permanent Secretary
Sokoine Drive/Mkwepu
P. 0. Box 9153 Dar es Salaam
Dar es Salaam , Tanzania
Telephone: (255) 22-2120281,
Fax:(255) 22-2139847
Email: rwssp@africaonline.co.tz
Date this PID prepared           May 15, 2000 (Initial) / August 30, 2001 (Updated)
Project appraisal date           October 2001
Projected Board date             December 2001
Country and Sector Background
Despite significant investment in the RWSS sector since the early 1970s, only
about 50t of the rural population has access to a reliable water supply
service and over 30t of rural water schemes are not functioning properly.
Support was provided in a fragmented fashion, and little emphasis was placed
on sustainability. The 1991 national water policy indicated a clear
departure from the era of "free water" launched in 1967, by introducing the
principle of cost sharing between the Government and the communities and
transferring to village water committees the responsibility to operate their
WSS schemes. The revised national water policy developed in 1999 emphasizes:
? a demand-responsive approach whereby communities choose service levels
based on their perceived needs and ability to pay;
? an upfront contribution to capital costs and the full financing of O&M
costs by communities as a means to foster ownership of the project;
? implementation and management of schemes by communities with the
assistance of local governments, NGOs and the private sector.
Project Objectives
The Project development objective is to ensure improved and sustained access
to water and sanitation services in rural communities in Tanzania. This will
be accomplished through the implementation of the new rural water supply and
sanitation (RWSS) sector policy and the development of a national RWSS
program. To this end, the Project will support a decentralized and demand
responsive delivery mechanism for basic RWSS services and build the necessary
institutional foundation for implementing the national RWSS program both at
the central and local governments levels. The Project will thus support the
CAS objective of reducing poverty and improving health condition of
vulnerable groups in rural settlements. The project will also focus
attention on HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation measures in project districts
and among the various stakeholders. It will also support the Government's
decentralization policy and enhanced community participation in local



infrastructure provision as well as the participation of the private sector
in service delivery.
Project Description
The project will have three main components:
(i) Development of a district implementation model initially in the three
districts of Rufiji (Coastal Region), Mpwapwa (Dodoma region), and Kilosa
(Morogoro Region) and gradually expanding to about 12 out of Tanzania's 115
districts. Activities would include: (a) support to the establishment and
strengthening of operational capacity of District Water and Sanitation Teams
(DWSTs) to prepare district RWSS plans and appraise RWSS projects identified
by communities; (b) support to the establishment of District RWSS Funds to
finance the construction of new RWSS schemes, the rehabilitation and
expansion of existing systems and possibly other water related small scale
infrastructure investments, and (c) the assistance to communities in the
proper management and operation of these systems. The component will also
include provision of equipment to districts, hygiene education and promotion
of HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation measures. Activities under this
component will be coordinated with that of the IDA-financed Tanzania Social
Action Fund (TASAF) project. Also an "innovation window" for new ideas in
RWSS delivery mechanisms will be provided in selected districts.
(ii) Construction of RWSS schemes (Community Sub-projects) in about 250
communities in about 12 districts including the construction or the
rehabilitation of existing open wells, drilled boreholes equipped with hand
pumps, powered pumps and solar pumps, spring tapping, transmission lines,
distribution systems, reservoirs, latrines and community sanitation
facilities.
(iii) Institutional strengthening and development of National RWSS Program:
including: (a) support to stakeholder consultative process on the strategy
for scaling up towards a National RWSS Program; (b) technical assistance to
the preparation of the National RWSS program the development of a management
information system (MIS) for tracking lessons learned from the Project; (c)
assistance to the RWSS sector institutional restructuring and building of the
capacity of key stakeholders (MOW, NGOs, consultants and private sector
suppliers of goods and services) and (d) meeting of Project management costs.
Project Implementation Schedule
Implementation of the Project is expected to take about four years. During
the first year, construction activities would be initiated in communities of
the three initial districts that would have expressed interest in
participating in the Project as well as promotion of the Project outside of
the three initial districts. Consultation with stakeholders would also
continue. The Project Coordination Unit would be established and
implementation agents (DWST, NGOs and consultants) would be selected soon
after appraisal of the Project. The next 36 month period would focus on
building RWSS schemes and expanding the district implementation model to
other districts. The strategy for implementing the National RWSS Program
would be developed based on actual implementation experience and the outcome
of the stakeholder consultation.
Project Financing
A rough estimate places the total project cost at around US$21 million, of
-2 -



which IDA will finance around US$19 million. The communities together with
Government of Tanzania will be expected to contribute 5-109 of the investment
costs. Co-financing with other external support agencies will be sought
during project preparation to meet the gap in financing.
Project Implementation
Project oversight. The Ministry of Water and Livestock Development (MWLD)
will be responsible for the overall implementation of the project. MWLD has
established a multi-stakeholder Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) to oversee
project preparation and implementation, maintain contact with other projects,
facilitate sharing of experiences, and make recommendations for policy review
and dissemination.
Project implementation arrangements. MWLD through its Rural Water Supply
Department (RWSD) will devote staff for supporting participating districts
to: (a) establish a DWST; (b) prepare a District WSS Plan (DWSP) endorsing
policy principles; and (c) establishing a District WSS Fund to which the
Project would make financial contributions. Communities would be the
beneficiaries of funds and be responsible for identifying, designing,
applying for financing, contracting, operating and maintaining systems; in
case where projects cover several communities (boreholes, gravity schemes),
the DWST could contract on behalf of communities and obtain assistance of
local consultants for supervising construction.
To be eligible, communities would be required to provide a minimum upfront
cash contribution of 5t of the estimated project cost and prepare a
management plan, emphasizing financial sustainability. Local intermediaries
(NGOs and small consulting firms) would assist communities in the above tasks
and be paid a share of the project cost. DWSTs would appraise the soundness
of applications submitted by communities and select projects eligible for
financing following guidelines agreed upon by the District Social Services
Committees (DSSC) and the RWSD and stipulated in the DWSP. Apart from the
minimum social, financial and technical criteria, all projects would also be
appraised against environmental safeguards and poverty impacts in order to
ensure that less served communities, usually the poorest, are supported. The
RWSD would also, in parallel to the testing of the district implementation
model, engage specialized consultants for: (a) consulting stakeholders during
the preparation of the National RWSS Program; (b) restructuring MWRD-RWSD
mandate in the RWSS sector; (c) building the capacity of all implementing
agents and intermediaries; and (d) putting in place a management information
system (MIS) system for documenting lessons learned during Project
implementation.
Project Sustainability
The sustainability of the water and sanitation facilities rests
on two key elements:
? Community willingness and capacity to manage and sustain WSS services:
under the Project, communities would manage the whole process by selecting
the type of service they want to obtain, applying for financing,
contributing towards the capital cost, contracting for construction and
operating and maintaining the RWSS systems;
? Availability of goods and services on the local market: this would be
achieved by working through district and regional-based NGO and private
- 3 -



organizations. The Project would include intensive capacity building to
help these agencies respond to community demand help implement longer
term incentives to keep these agencies functioning.
Lessons learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
The review of selected bilateral (e.g. NEDA, GTZ) and NGOs (e.g. Wateraid,
SNV) managed projects in the country carried out during the preparation of
the RWSS policy, lessons from regional projects, contributions made during
the global RWSS conference held in Washington in May 1998, results of project
preparation work, and input from the Bank's RWSS Thematic Group, provide the
following lessons:
? The importance of community involvement is well established in several
bilateral and NGO managed projects implemented in Tanzania and well
accepted by communities;
? In order to enhance the demand-based approach, communities should apply
for funding only when they have met participation criteria, and in
particular collected capital cost contribution;
? Community willingness to pay for services is often much higher than
expected, but this is often not reflected in government cost sharing
policies, which always provide high levels of subsidies;
? Communities need assistance in planning facilities, training and deciding
how to manage them;
? The private sector usually responds well; competition between suppliers
should be enhanced and alternative ways of packaging participatory and
construction activities should be considered to improve service. Better
ways for ensuring spare parts availability in the local market should also
be developed;
? Sustainability relies greatly on the capacity of the WSS committee to
assume their functions; training should start very early in the project
cycle; and
? More attention must be given to gender considerations, sanitation and
hygiene education components so as to achieve lasting results; women have
a greater role in decision making and are better empowered to facilitate
community action.
Environmental Aspects
The project objective is to improve environmental conditions in rural areas
of Tanzania by providing reliable water supply to the rural population and
thus improved health and environmental conditions. The project does not
anticipate any major negative environmental impacts. The project is designed
to sensitize communities to the potential environmental issues of their
subprojects, and train them in maintenance and sustainable operations of
water and sanitation facilities. The project will also have procedures to
mitigate any adverse environmental impacts of current and incremental waste
water disposal that may occur, and provide for the protection of existing
water sources as well as for future sources. An environmental analysis was
conducted in the three initial districts and was publicly disclosed in
Tanzania ahead of project appraisal. Environmental safeguards have been
incorporated into the project design and focus on environmentally sound
criteria for siting boreholes and wells, construction methods for well-heads
and aprons, waste water disposal techniques, and appropriate on-site latrine
location. All sub-projects will have to meet environmental standards as
described in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM). The PIM includes a
section covering environmental criteria for subproject appraisal,
- 4 -



environmental requirements for contractors, and will use existing
environmental guidelines for watershed management and related issues. The
approach applied in this project, when properly implemented, will achieve the
set project objective with positive or minimal negative environmental
impacts.
HIV/AIDS Prevention
The project will establish the HIV/AIDS prevalence in active districts and in
conjunction with the necessary district and health authorities design
necessary interventions among stakeholders in the sub-project sites.
Program Objectives Categories
This project is anticipated to improve the establish capacity for
implementing decentralized demand responsive water supply and sanitation
services provision in the country consistent with the new RWSS policy. It
will enhance community management and sustainability of systems and help the
government build the necessary consensus and a strategy for a multi-donor
National RWSS Program. The project can be expected to support the broader
objective of sustained poverty reduction, growth and human development.
Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington, DC    20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Alain Locussol
Task Manager
202 473-37140
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not necessarily be included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending September 21, 2001.
- 5 -



