E492
Vol. 1
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
MINISTRY OF WATER AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (RWSSP)
SUMMARY
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
(a)   The Project
The proposed Rural Water Supply & Sanitation (RWSS) Project is the initiative by the
Government of Tanzania (GOT) to promote development of sustainable, safe and
affordable water supply in the rural areas through community participation. The project
emphasizes demand responsive and participatory approach in service delivery through
involvement of the rural people the design, planning, construction as well as operation &
maintenance of water supply & sanitation schemes.
Specifically, the objective of the project is to improve the existing water supply &
sanitation schemes through rehabilitation and whenever necessary construction of the
new ones. To achieve sustainability of water supply schemes the project will focus on
improving the environment, sanitation & hygiene conditions through education &
awareness creation. During implementation, attention will also be given to HIV/AIDS
prevention among the rural communities in the project areas. Finally, the project will
also support capacity building in the planning and management of district water &
sanitation programmes within the broader context of the ongoing Local Government
Decentralization reforms, and the rural development agenda of the Government of
Tanzania (GOT).
So far a number of studies has been carried out as one of the major steps towards
project implementation. One of those studies include the Environmental Assessment
(EA) study in three pilot districts of Kilosa (Morogoro Region), Rufiji (Coast Region) and
Mpwapwa (Dodoma Region).
1ILE COP



(b)   The rationale for EA Study
The rationale for carrying out EA is to ensure that environmental concerns are
incorporated in the project design, and that the local communities become aware of
environmental issues related to the project. Ultimately the intention is make sure that
the local communities could operate & maintain their water supply & sanitation schemes
in environmentally sound and sustainable manner.
The GOT and the World Bank consider EA as an important tool/instrument for
facilitating decision-making process and to ensure that development projects are
environmentally sound and sustainable. However, because the project has not yet
identified specific sites for implementation the assessment could not be strictly done
according to the existing TanzaniaNVorld Bank procedures. Instead the study followed a
more general approach that incorporates an overall assessment of programme
interventions.
In this study the consultant employed a number of methods, such as reviewing various
documents/reports, conducting informal & formal interviews, group discussions and
physical observation. Extensive use of focus group assessment, discussions and
consultation with village committees, district council officials and relevant government
agencies also provided opportunities to identify the concerns of various stakeholders.
(c)   Scope of the Study
The important issues of major concern in this study are shown in the terms of reference
(ToR) attached to EA reports for the three districts. The consultant's task in this was to
describe the relevant policies, legislation & regulatory framework pertaining to
environment and water resource management. The task also involved assessment of
the existing institutional capability for handling EA requirements in Tanzania. In addition,
the consultant was also required to identify negative environmental impacts and
propose appropriate mitigation measures. Finally, the study was supposed to come out
with an EA checklist and checklist of monitoring indicators that could be used as a
guideline for conducting EA of RWSS project. Detail findings from this study are found
in the main reports for the three districts.
(d)   Potential Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures
Generally the project is not expected to create major negative impacts to the human
and natural environment. Instead the project is expected to be beneficial to the rural
communities since it is aimed at improving their living standards.
The positive impacts expected from the project include:
2



* Increased income to local food vendors; especially women by selling food to the
construction workforce.
* Improved health condition to the rural community due to accessibility to clean
and safe water supply.
* Temporary employment opportunity to the local people; especially youth and
women during construction.
* Improved sanitary condition and, hence decreased incidence of water borne
diseases.
* Improved skills in 0 & M of water supply schemes and financial managerial and
administrative skills to the community leaders due to training package.
* Improved environmental condition in the rural community due to created
awareness and training in environmental conservation activities, including tree
planting, application of environmentally sound technologies (e.g. use of
alternative construction materials).
Potential environmental impacts of major concern to this project are associated with
construction works, community activities and water resource uses. Those impacts
together with their mitigation measures are summarized in the Table.
(e)   Provisions for Environmental Safeguards
In this project training a program has been proposed as a means of capacity building at
district and community levels. This is to ensure that the local communities can handle
environmental issues related to water resource utilization. The implementation of the
training program will require extensive dialogue between the Ministry of Water &
Livestock Development and National Environment Management Council (NEMC).
These two organizations will also agree on how to institute periodic spot checks
(environmental audits) to ascertain the level of compliance with the proposed mitigation
measures.
Another provisions for environmental safeguards includes incorporation of community
proposal and sub-project appraisal guidelines templates with a section on
environmental concerns in the Project Operational Manual. The templates will be used
in training the Partner Organisations (POs), Community extension agents (CEAs), etc.
In general extension support services will be incorporated into ToR of POs with specific
actions for health and environmental education, as well as HIV/AIDS prevention.
POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND THEIR MITIGATION MEASURES
3



POTENTIAL IMPACTS                        MITIGATION MEASURES
(a) Construction impacts
Destruction of vegetation leading into soil Confine activities on-site.
erosion because of access roads creation
during transportation of drilling rigs and other Use labor-intensive technology.
equipment to well sites and/or pipelines  Land restoration and re-planting trees.
construction.
Dumping of drilling wastes and construction  Removal & proper disposal of all construction spoils and
spoils.                                  other solid wastes.
Loss of crops and agricultural land due to  Consultation  with  community  representatives when
crossing pipelines route or well construction.   locating pipeline route or well/borehole sites.
Avoid damage to private property but compensation
should be paid whenever necessary.
Water pollution from pit latrines due to bore  Locate the wells at reasonable distance from pit latrines
hole/shallow wells being too close to human  (at least 50-m).
settlements.                             Fence off boreholes or shallow well sites to prevent
encroachment by people due to settlement expansion.
The area should be declared protected under village by-
laws.
Occupational health & safety of workers  Contractor should be responsible for health & safety of
during construction.                     workers.
Only trained personnel should be allowed to operate
equipment on-site.
There should be a qualified person to administer first aide
on-site.
Increased incidence of STD & HIV/AIDS due  Awareness & education campaigns on STD and HIV.
to construction workforce in the village.
Locate the construction camp far away from village
settlement.
Limit number of workforce to technical & skilled labor
only. The rest of workforce should come from the rural
communities.
B. Community Impacts
Bush fires & tree felling by local community  Enforce by-laws to discourage bush fires around water
around water sources and upper catchments.  sources and catchments.
Promote the use of alternative construction materials and
energy sources to minimize deforestation.
Initiate  environmental  education  and  awareness
campaigns.
Encroachment to well sites and open water Fencing  off and  demarcating  boundaries of well
sources  due  to  expansion  of  human  site/boreholes.
settlement and farmlands.
Well/borehole sites should be declared protected area
under village by-laws.
4



POTENTIAL IMPACTS                        MITIGATION MEASURES
Pollution of open water sources due to human  Treat water in storage tanks and/or reservoirs by
activities and trampling by              chlorination, especially in small towns.
Livestock.
People should be educated and encouraged to boil
drinking water.
Promote use of pit latrines among the local communities.
Damage to pipelines by local people during  Declare right of way (RoW) and enact by-laws to prevent
cultivation and  planting crops with deep  people from cultivating along pipeline route.
rooting systems along pipeline route.    Pipelines should be submerged below the ground to an
appropriate depth.
Spontaneous growth of algae and other Proper design for water storage tanks and /or reservoirs.
waterweeds in open storage tanks or
reservoirs due to temperature and exposure
to sunlight.
Periodic cleaning of water storage tanks and/or
reservoirs.
C. Water use Impacts
Accumulation of wastewater around well sites  Prevent people from washing or bathing close to well
or standpipes due to people washing or sites or standpipes though enactment of by-laws.
bathing close to the water sources, hence into  Construct standard concrete pads for standpipes and/or
potential breeding sites for mosquitoes.  hand pump shallow wells drainage channel to carry
spilled water into soak-ways.
Over-extraction of groundwater leading into  Amount of water extracted for domestic purpose is not
land instability and hydrological imbalance.    expected to cause significant impacts. However, a
precaution may be taken by limiting the number of wells
or boreholes per unit area.
Periodic monitoring of ground water levels should be
instituted.
Contamination of water in Ring Wells due to  Ring Wells should be designed and constructed by
poor water handling  and  use  of dirty  raising them at least one meter (1-m) above the ground
containers by local people during fetching  to prevent surface run-off from entering the Well.
water or through surface run-off entering the
Well during rainfalls.
Boiling of drinking water should be promoted through
hygiene education
People should be encouraged to use only appropriate
containers for drawing water from Wells. The containers
should be kept in safe and clean place.



