E492
Vol. 3
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
MINISTRY OF WATER & LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT
Environmental Assessment (EA) Report
for
Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Project (RWSSP)
MPWAPWA DISTRICT
March 2001
A.M.L. AKO
Senior Associate Consultant
(Environment & Natural Resource)
SERVICEPLAN LTD
P.O. Box 33165, Dar Es Salaam.
Tel: 72394
Fax: 2700133
E-mail: serviceplan @ ud. co.tz
FILE COPY



TABLE OF CONTENTS
LIST  OF  ABBREVIATIONS  &  ACRONYMS .....................................................                                       III
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ......................................................V
1.0  INTRODUCTION .....................................................                                                            1
1.1   GENERAL ......................................................1
1.2   THE STUDY AREA ......................................................1
1.3   PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES OF THE STUDY ..............................................2
1.4     SCOPE  AND  LIMITATIONS  .....................................................2
1.5    GENERAL  APPROACH  &  METHODOLOGY ....................................................3
1.5.1   GENERAL APPROACH ......................................................3
1.5.2      METHODOLOGY  ......................................................3
2.0   POLICY, LEGISLATION & REGULATORY FRAMEWORK ............... ...............5
2.1      POLICY  .....................................................5
2.2 LEGISLATION & REGULATORY FRAMEWORK                                                                      .8
2.2.1      LEGISLATION ......................................................8
2.2.2 STANDARDS GOVERNING ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY                                                                    ..  15
2.2.3 EA REQUIREMENTS AND GOT CAPACITY TO HANDLE EIA    .. 19
2.2.4      INSTITUTIONAL  NEEDS  AND  CAPACITY .................................................. 22
3.0      PROJECT  DESCRIPTION  ......................................................                                            26
4.0   BIO-PHYSICAL AND SOCIO-ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT ............ .............. 31
4.1      BIO-PHYSICAL  ENVIRONMENT  ...........................                                    ........................... 31
4.2      SOCIO-ECONOMIC  ENVIRONMENT .....................................................                                         33
5.0  ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES ........... .......... 37
6.0   MITIGATION MANAGEMENT AND TRAINING PLAN .................................... 40
6.1     MITIGATION  MANAGEMENT  PLAN ......................................................                                        40
6.2     TRAINING   PLAN  .................................................... .    43
7.0  MONITORING PLAN AND MONITORING INDICATORS ............................... 47



LIST OF TABLES
TABLE 1: EA CHECKLIST FOR COMMUNITY SUB-PROJECTS .......................... 50
TABLE 2: MITIGATION PLAN .................................................                                                     40
TABLE  3:  PROPOSED  TRAINING  PLAN ..................................................                                         46
TABLE 4: CHECKLIST OF MONITORING INDICATORS ...................................... 51
LIST OF FIGURES
FIG. 1:   MAP OF MPWAPWA DISTRICT -RURAL ROADS AND VILLAGE
CENTRES.                                                                                                      4
FIG 2:   MAP OF MPWAPWA DISTRICT-AGRO-ECONOMIC ZONES .                                                                         30
FIG. 3:   MAP OF PROJECT AREA-LAND USE AND LAND VEGETATION
COVER ................................................... 36
LIST OF APPENDICES
APPENDIX I: EA CHECKLIST AND CHECKLIST OF MONITORING
INDICATORS .............................................................                             50
APPENDIX  II:    REFERENCES ............................................................                                       53
APPENDIX  III:   VILLAGE  BASELINE  INFORMATION ........................................... 55
APPENDIX IV: WATER SUPPLY STATUS AND WATER FUND .......................... 69
APPENDIX  V:    WATER  QUALITY  DATA ............................................................  70
APPENDIX Vl: LIST OF AUTHORITIES CONTACTED DURING THE STUDY ..... 71
APPENDIX  VII:  TERMS  OF  REFERENCE  ............................................................. 73
APPENDIX Vil ...                          ...... LIST OF STUDY TEAM MEMBERS AND THEIR
RESPONSIBILITIES ........................................... 74
APPENDIX IX:  CONSULTANT'S CURRICULUM VITAE ....................................... 75
ii



LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS & ACRONYMS
AfDB    = African Development Bank
AIDS    = Acquired Immunity Deficiency Syndrome
ASPS   = Agricultural Sector Programme Support
BAT     = Best Affordable Technology
BWB    = Basin Water Board
CBOs   = Community Based Organizations
CDOs   = Community Development Officers
CWB    = Central Water Board
DAWASA= Dar Es Salaam Water & Sewerage Authority
DBSPE  = District Based Support Programme on Education
DCs    = District Councils
DECs   = District Environment Committees
DED     = District Executive Director
DHV     = Foreign Consultant Firm from Netherlands
DMPP   = Dodoma Micro-project Programme
DWE    = District Water Engineer
DWR    = Division of Water Resource
DWSP   = District Water & Sanitation Plan
DWSSSF = District Water Supply & Sanitation Fund
DWST   = District Water & Sanitation Team
EA   =    Environmental Assessment
EC      = European Community
EEC     = European Economic Commission
EIA   =    Environmental Impact Assessment
EIS   =    Environmental Impact Statement
EMP    = Environmental Management Plan
ESAs   = External Support Agencies
EU      = European Union
FAO     = Food & Agricultural Organization
GOT    = Government of Tanzania
HIV     = Human Immune Virus
IDA     = International Development Agency
IIED    = International Institute for Environment & Development
IRA     = Institute of Resource Assessment
LAMP   = Land Management Programme
LLL     = Linked Local Learning
Maendeleo ya Jamii na Afya
MEM     = Ministry of Energy & Minerals
MOEC   = Ministry of Education & Culture
MOH    = Ministry of Health
MOW    = Ministry of Water
MWLD   = Ministry of Water & Livestock Development
MTNRE  = Ministry of Tourism, Natural Resource & Environment
NCSSD  = National Conservation Strategy for Sustainable Development
NEAP   = National Environment Action Plan
NEMC   = National Environment Management Council
NEP     = National Environment Policy
iii



NGOs   = Non-Governmental Organizations
NPA     = Norwegian People's Aid
NSPCA  = Norwegian State Pollution Control Authority
NUWA   = National Urban Water Authority
NWP    = National Water Policy
NWRC   = National Water Resource Commission
NWRMP = National Water Resource Management Policy
O&M     = Operation & Maintenance
PID     = Project Information Document
PO      = Partner Organization
PWO    = Public Water Office
RBWO   =  River Basin Water Office
RWD    =  Rural Water Division
RWE    = Regional Water Engineer
RWSS   = Rural Water Supply & Sanitation
RWSSM  =  Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Management
RWSSP =  Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Project
SCAPA  = Soil Conservation & Agroforestry Programme
SECAP  = Soil Erosion Control & Agroforestry Programme
STD     = Sexually Transmitted Disease
TAC     = Technical Advisory Committee
TAC     = Technical Advisory Committee
TANAPA - Tanzania National Parks
TASAF  = Tanzania Social Action Fund
TBS     = Tanzania Bureau of Standards
TIST    = Tanzania International Small Group Tree Planting
ToR     = Terms of Reference
UN      = United Nations
UNCLOS =  United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea
UNEP   =  United Nations Environment Programme
UNESCO = United Nations Education, Scientific & Cultural Organization
UNICEF =  United Nations Children Fund
UPE     =  Universal Primary Education
VC       = Village Chairman
VEO      = Village Executive Officer
VIP      = Ventilated Improved Pit latrine
VWCs   = Village Water Committees
VWSS   = Village Water Supply & Sanitation
WAMMA = WawezeshajiNVafadhili, Maji,
WATSAN = Water & Sanitation
WBO    = Water Basin Office
WEO    = Ward Executive Officer
WFP    = World Food Programme
WHO    = World Health Organization
WLU     = Water Laboratory Unit
WRM    = Water Resource Management
iv



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.   PURPOSE AND SCOPE OF THE PROJECT
This project is aimed at improving the existing water supply, sanitation & hygiene
conditions for the rural communities of Mpwapwa district. The Mpwapwa district is
located about 450 km from Dar Es Salaam City.
The project is expected to involve rehabilitation and/or construction of new water
supply schemes During project implementation attention will be given to sanitation,
hygiene and related environmental issues. Focus will also be given to community
health, especially promotion of AIDS/HIV prevention among the rural people through
education & awareness campaigns.
II.   RATIONALE   AND    METHODOLOGY    FOR    ENVIRONMENTAL
ASSESSMENT (EA)    STUDY
(a)   Rationale for EA
The Environmental Assessment (EA) study has been found necessary in order to
incorporate environmental issues in the project design and sensitize the rural
communities on environmental matters related to the project. The aim is to sensitize
the community on environmental matters related to water supply & sanitation
schemes. Specifically, the objective is to identify potentially negative environmental
impacts of various community sub-projects and propose appropriate mitigation
measures. The ultimate goal is to develop checklists of EA and checklist of
monitoring indicators.
(b)   Methodology
The study involved reviews of relevant documents, maps & reports, field
observations, informal & formal interviews, discussions/meetings with community
members including their leaders, as well as various authorities at village, district and
national levels. Consultation with key informants provided opportunity to stimulate
concern of various stakeholders and solicit their opinion on mitigation measures.
Ill.   MAJOR FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A.   STATE OF THE ENVIRONMENT
(i)   Land degradation
The project area is an arid land with unreliable rainfalls and land degradation is
widespread. The problem of land degradation can be attributed to overgrazing,
prolonged draught, bush fires and lack of conservation measures. During dry
seasons topsoil remains almost bare with scattered and shrubs or thicket, hence
making soils vulnerable to erosion. The most common type of land degradation
includes surface sealing, soil compaction, sheet, rill and gully erosions.
v



(ii)   Air quality
Frequent bush fires and fuel wood burning are the major source of CO & CO2
emissions that can contribute to air pollution and green house effect. However, no
attempt has been made to estimate the amount of gaseous emission from the
sources.
(iii) Ground & Surface Water Potential
The ground water in most cases water can be encountered only in deeper aquifers
(>30-60m). Recharge rates are estimated between 1-4 L/s in lowland and 0-4 L/s on
upper areas during dry seasons. Thus, construction of hand pump shallow wells may
not be appropriate in most parts of the project area.
Most of the streams in the project area are seasonal and due to prolonged draught
and high soil permeability it is not common to find standing water bodies. However,
in the mountainous areas natural springs are the potential sources.
Rainwater harvesting by using roof catchment is another potential source of water
that could be exploited in the project area. However, application of this technology at
household level is limited by lack of knowledge and type of existing houses'.
,.v)       Water Quality
The report from the local people shows majority of boreholes and shallow wells
contain saline water. This information is supported by laboratory analysis report,
whereby total hardness (740 mg/l as CaCO3) was found to exceed the Tanzania
standards (600 mg/I) for one borehole at Berege village. The amount of fluoride
(319.5 mg/1) and turbidity (119 NTU) in this borehole was also found higher than the
Tanzania standards, i.e. 8.0 mg/I for fluoride, and 30 NTU for turbidity levels.
However, these findings are not conclusive and as such extensive investigation
would be required. Nevertheless, findings indicate possible effect of geological
formations on ground water quality.
Although no laboratory analysis was done, pollution of surface water could be
common due to human activities, trampling by livestock and incoming run-off during
rainfalls. The most important pollutants affecting water quality are human faeces,
animal dung, sediments and other debris from surface run-off. Agricultural
contaminants such as pesticides and inorganic fertilizers could be another source of
surface water pollution but so far, local people do not use agrochemical.
(v)   Sanitation & hygiene
The majority of households have unlined pit latrines with mud walls and open roofs.
These types of pit latrines are not durable creating a potential risk to human life as
' The majority of houses in the study area have their roofs built up of grass with soil on the top (known as
"Tembe" houses).
vi



they usually collapse, especially during rainfalls. The latrines also produce bad smell
due to lack of ventilation. Again, due to lack of cover they provide a potential
breeding site and reservoir for houseflies that may easily contaminate food and/or
human eyes, especially children. For those reason diarrhea and trachoma are one of
the most common diseases in the study area.
Most houses do not boil drinking water or wash hands due to various reasons, but
ignorance seems to be a major reason. However, sanitation & hygiene education is
being offered by visiting MCH staff once per month. In some villages, sanitation &
hygiene education is conducted by health officers in collaboration with water
committees at least once per week. They also visit households to inspect pit latrines,
waste disposal chambers (Karo) and solid waste disposal sites.
B.   POLICY, LEGISLATION & REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
(i)   Policy
The relevant policies that support EA requirements for Tanzania is the National
Environment Policy (NEP) and National Water Policy (NWP) formulated in 1997 and
2000, respectively. Both policies recognize the importance of incorporating
environmental consideration in sectoral policies and programs. They also state that
EA should be carried out for all major development projects before their
commencement. However, findings indicate that:
* There is no comprehensive legislation to support NEP implementation or EIA
requirements in the country.
. The NWP does not clearly state environmental awareness & education in its
policy objectives, especially in relation to rural water supply & sanitation.
* The policy considers EIA mandatory before execution of all major water supply
projects. However, there are no sectoral guidelines for carrying out EIA in water
resource projects.
* The policy states that environmental issues will be analyzed at planning level but
it does not give any implementation strategy to ensure that environmental issues
are incorporated in all stages of water resource development.
To rectify the above shortcomings it is recommended that:
* Environmental awareness and education should be stated clearly in the NWP
objectives. The policy objective should be to promote water supply, sanitation,
environmental awareness and hygiene education. Another objective should be to
promote environmental conservation and encourage environmentally sound
practices and technologies that minimize vegetation destruction and water pollution.
* MWLD should develop its own EIA guidelines to ensure that EIA is conducted
properly to adequately address environmental issues in the water sector. The MWLD
should establish an Environmental Unit or Section responsible for foreseeing
vii



implementation of environmental management plans and maintain linkage and co-
ordination with the Office of the Vice President through the Environment Division and
NEMC.
*  Legislation to support implementation of EIA requirements in the water sector
should be incorporated in the Water Utilization Act.
(ii)   Legislation
The relevant legislation matters of environmental concern are those related to solid
waste management, pollution control, environmental quality standards, land use,
health & safety, mining, protection of wildlife, sensitive areas, unique flora & fauna,
protection of natural & cultural resource. All these legislation are adequately covered
in the sectoral ministries to address environmental issues including EIA
requirements.
However, no comprehensive legislation that enforces the implementation of NEP or
empowers NEMC to make EIA requirements mandatory and legally binding. Again,
there is no effective co-ordination and collaboration among environment and water-
related sectors. It is therefore recommended that:
• There should be a legislation that will empower NEMC to make EIA mandatory
and legally binding.
- There should be a clear statement of institutional responsibilities and supporting
legislation to facilitate implementation of NEP and reduce duplication of efforts.
(iii) Standards Governing Environmental Qualities
The existing, sector ministries in the country have legal authority to regulate
environmental quality standards (e.g. through pollution discharge permits). However,
there is a lack of clear system for co-ordination, implementation or enforcement of
legislation and regulations. This is reflected in the current levels of environmental
performance in the country.
To improve the situation it is recommended that:
*  Environmental regulatory capacity and associated institutional development
should be strengthened.
* The regulation of pollution should be based on Polluter Pay Principle (PPP), and
nobody should have a right to pollute environment. Polluters should give a proof
on the effect of their activities to the environment, that is, whether the activities do
pollute the environment or not.
*  Enforcement of requirements for discharge permits must be strengthened.
However, it should continue to be regulated through the existing Water Utilization
Acts.
viii



* The pollution control and prevention on a system of discharge permits that
focuses on general environmental protection act should be established. That
should cover discharges to water, air, as well as and noise and waste (solid and
liquid wastes) production.
* General effluent standards should not be stated in Water utilization Act, but they
should be stated individually in the discharge permits. It should be specific to
actual (industrial) sector of industry and environmental status of the receiving
waters. Guidelines for effluent standard should be established, based on the
review of existing standards by NEMC
* The contents of an application for discharge permits should be specified in the
regulation and EIA requirements should be submitted to the relevant authority.
* The pollution control and mitigation measures should be specified by industries in
attending the expected effluent discharge in their applications for discharges
permits.
* The principle of BAT should be adopted and the concept of cleaner Production
Technology. That should include procedures for handling of applications,
provisions for notification and public participation, appeals and timeframe.
* Regulations should ensure that relevant authorities and institutions are contacted.
* There should be a provision for existing industries to apply for discharge permits
in a specified time frame.
* Discharge permits should specify production capacity, raw materials used,
processing chemicals, products and solid waste disposal.
* Discharge permits should be linked with license or other permits, specifications of
receiving water and municipal sewerage systems, discharge limits (intermediate if
necessary) and time limit. Other inclusions should involve operating conditions,
such as, the use of Cleaner Production Technologies, leakage control, minimum
water use, etc. Monitoring and reporting requirements and procedures should be
specified in the discharge permits, as well as, improvement program.
* There should be a general condition and right for the relevant authority to inspect
the facilities and monitor the discharges. There should be a system of permit fee
and fees for inspection should be introduced.
(iv) EA Procedures and GOT Capacity to Handle EA Requirements
The EIA performance in Tanzania is constrained by lack of adequate expertise,
institutional weakness and absence of legal & regulatory framework.
There is low level of awareness on EIA among senior staff in both private and public
institutions and some of them still regard EIA as an obstacle to project
implementation and/or it can increase implementation costs.
ix



Although there is wide range of organizations with expertise relevant to EIA in the
country, most of them have never been exposed to EIA process and do not have EIA
specific expertise. However, in recent years involvement of some local consultants in
EIA has helped to build their capacity.
The EIA requirements in Tanzania are not supported by legislation and no
responsible authorities have been explicitly designated according to sector
legislation. However, some sector ministries have included EIA requirements in their
sector laws and regulations. Again, the process of establishing comprehensive
legislation and regulatory frameworks is still on going in the country.
The EIA guidelines and procedures developed by NEMC are comprehensive and
cover all aspects of environment. However, the NEMC currently and enforces EIA
through sector laws. However, there is no defined institutional responsibilities for EIA
and EIA regulatory framework exists only in few protected areas, such as the
national parks, marine parks and game reserves.
The national capacity for management and implementation of environmental
assessment requirements is still limited as EIA regulatory framework still covers only
certain sectors. However, the capacity to implement EA recommendations and
environmental management plans is also low within those sectors.
The increasing involvement of private sector on the national development and future
enactment of national level EIA legislation will significantly increase demand for
indigenous EIA expertise.
To improve the GOT capacity to handle EA requirements it is recommended that:
* There should be an overall political decision so that general regulations on EIA
are stated in the Environmental or Planning legislation. The process of enacting
legislation should be speeded up to cope with the rapid economic transformation
towards privatization.
* Provision for EIA should be stated in the Water Laws. The water policy review
and Water Utilization Act should include EIA requirements for water resource
projects.
* The EIA should be mandatory of large-scale water projects and should be based
on investment costs and projects in sensitive areas.
* The MWLD should develop its own EIA guidelines to provide guidance on more
specific water related aspects.
. The capacity of national institutions to collect environmental baseline and
monitoring data should be strengthened through financial support.
* The existing sector expertise within national institutions, including the MWLD
should be harnessed to improve their capacity to undertake EIA.
x



* There should be some training to improve awareness on the role and importance
of EIA among senior staff within public and private institutions.
(v)  Institutional Needs & Capacity
The existing institutional set-up at all levels is adequate for implementation of EA
recommendations in RWSS Project. However, some shortcomings need to be
rectified for effective implementation of environmental & social safeguards.
According to findings, the NEMC is constrained by lack of funds and adequate
human resource to conduct environmental reviews, audit, monitoring, and training. It
also lacks equipment to conduct on spot checks during monitoring.
The rural communities are constrained by lack of financial capability due to poor
revenue base. Again, the village committees and their governments are faced by
lack of financial management and managerial/administrative skills. Poor participation
of women in various committees could also be another obstacle to effective
implementation of rural water supply & sanitation program, as well as environmental
management in general.
Although the existing program by NGOs have shown some significant contribution to
rural water supply & sanitation schemes, they can not be totally relied upon due to
their diverse interest and objective. Moreover, their activities are of limited coverage
in the district. However, establishment of co-ordination and linkage with existing
programs can be useful in the implementation of rural water supply & sanitation
program.
The lack of funds and human resource in the district as well as absence of water
laboratory unit at the Office of the Regional Engineer could be another constraint to
effective water resource management & environmental monitoring.
It is therefore recommended that:
* Environmental Unit should be established within the RWD in the MWLD that will
link & co-ordinate with the Vice Presidents Office through its Environment
Division and NEMC as well as NGOs, CBOs, and the rural community in general.
The MWLD through its Environmental Unit and NEMC should then agree on
training program, periodic spot checks (environmental audits) on completed sub-
projects annually to ascertain the level of compliance with mitigation measures.
* NEMC should promote capacity building through engagement of local institutions,
especially private sector in environmental audits & monitoring. It should also
develop training programs to improve their skills. The NEMC should also devise a
means of generating income by charging fees various activities such as
environmental reviews, audits & monitoring.
* Local people should be mobilized and encouraged to establish economic groups
in order to increase their revenue base so that they can contribute to water &
xi



environmental protection funds. The people should be sensitized through
environmental awareness & education.
* Village governments and their committees should be trained on financial
management and managerial/administrative skills.
* Women should be mobilized and given more opportunity to actively participate in
various committees.
* Co-ordination and linkage should be established and promoted between the rural
water supply & sanitation program and existing programs by NGOs.
* Capacity for water resource & environmental monitoring at the district level
should be improved through training, establishment of well equipped and water
laboratory unit at the Regional Engineer's Office.
C.   ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES
Although the project is expected to be more beneficial to the rural communities, it
may have some negative consequences. The potential environmental impacts of
major concern to the project are those related to construction activities, community
actions and water resource uses. Some possible impacts resulting from the project
and their mitigation measures are outlined in this section.
(i)   Construction impacts
Vegetation destruction is likely to occur due to creation of access roads for
transportation of drilling rigs, equipment and installation of pipeline and other
associated activities. The impact could be mitigated by confining construction
activities on-site and along designated pipeline routes. The number of equipment &
machinery on-site should be limited by using more labor-intensive technologies.
Other measures should include landscaping and re-planting of vegetation on
disturbed areas.
Improper location of well sites in relation to pit latrines, burial sites and other sources
of contaminants may lead into ground water pollution. Thorough investigation should
be done during well siting in collaboration with local communities. Other pollutant
sources ground water pollution may be from geological formations (E.g. Berege
village). The impact can be mitigated by conducting water quality analysis and using
Tanzania standards as criteria for acceptance.
Loss of farmlands and/or other properties may occur during installation of pipelines
associated with Mechanized deep well or Gravity pipe water supply schemes. This
problem can be mitigated through diversion of routes, and if not possible
compensation should be considered for the lost property.
Production of drilling wastes and construction spoils may occur however that is not
expected to have significant impact on land and ground or surface water sources. All
xii



drilling wastes and construction spoils will properly disposed in such a way that they
do not result into soil or water pollution.
Health & safety of workers may be at risk during construction. The problem will be
mitigated by restricting operation of equipment to trained personnel only. There will
also be a first aid box on-site administered by a qualified person. Moreover, the
contractor will be responsible for health & safety of workers on-site.
Incidence of STD & HIV/AIDS is likely to increase due to presence of construction
workforce in the rural communities. The chances of STD & HIVIAIDS transmission
can be minimized by promoting awareness and education campaigns among the
rural communities, especially women & youths. The number of workforce should be
to technical & skilled labor only. The rest of workforce should come from the rural
communities. The construction camp should be located far away from the village
settlement.
(ii)   Community impacts
Poor disposal of human excreta or construction of pit latrines close to water sources
may result into water pollution. The impact will be mitigated through extensive
education & awareness campaigns to promote latrine construction and use by local
communities. The community members and local artisans will be trained and
provided with instructional manuals on proper siting and construction of pit latrines.
The pit latrines will be sited at least 25 meters away and downhill of a water point.
The bottom of the pit latrine will be at least 2.0 meters above the natural ground
water table.
Encroachment of human settlement towards well sites may result into risk of ground
water contamination from pit latrines. The problem will by demarcating the
boundaries of well sites and enactment by-laws to prevent trespassing.
Cultivation and vegetation destruction around stream banks has been noted to
significantly result into erosion of stream banks, sedimentation of stream/river beds
and flood hazards (e.g. Muungano and Chanzuru villages). These activities create a
potential threat to the sustainability of water resource. The problem can be mitigated
by restricting cultivation to at least 200 meters away from the stream banks through
by-laws.
Destruction of vegetation on mountainous areas will result into drying up of natural
springs with negative impact on Gravity pipe schemes. The problem can be
mitigated through extensive community education and awareness campaigns on
environmental conservation and protection of water sources. The village government
should also enforce by-laws to discourage uncontrolled bush fires around the water
sources.
Damage to pipeline installations through cultivation and construction activities along
the pipeline routes by local people. This can be prevented by proper placement of
pipelines at an appropriate depth. The right of way will be declared and maintained
through community by-laws.
xiii



Accumulation of wastewater around well sites and standpipes due to people washing
or bathing near the water sources may lead into creation of mosquito breeding sites.
This problem will be mitigated through construction of standard design for concrete
pads with drainage channels to carry wastewater and/or spilled water into soak-away
at least 25 meters from the source. People should be restricted from washing and/or
bathing near the water sources through enactment of by-laws.
Human activities and livestock may have a negative impact on Pumped surface or
Gravity Pipes schemes due to pollution. The impact can be mitigated by water
treatment through filtration and chlorination. The community members will be
provided with hygiene education to ensure that they boil their drinking water. People
will be educated on water source protection and management through extensive
environmental awareness campaigns.
(iii) Water use impacts
Ground water over-extraction may lead into land instability, tectonic effects and
disruption of hydrological balance. However, the impact is not expected to be
significant due to small volume of water extracted for domestic purpose. But it is
important to take precautions by limiting the number of boreholes or Hand pump
shallow wells per unit area of land and conduct periodic monitoring of ground water
levels. Ground water monitoring system should be installed to monitor fluctuations of
ground water levels and appropriate action should be taken whenever necessary.
Spontaneous growth of algae and other aquatic plants may occur in open storage
tanks or reservoirs due to temperature and exposure to sunlight hence affect the
water quality. This problem can be mitigated by properly designing storage tanks or
reservoirs (e.g. storage tanks should be able to reflect sunlight and properly
covered). The storage tanks should be cleaned periodically during operation.
xiv



1.0 INTRODUCTION
1.1   General
The environmental assessment (EA) study was assigned to M/S Ako (hereinafter
called the Consultant) by the Ministry of Water & Livestock Development (MWLD)-
hereinafter called the Client on 8th October 2000. The intention of the study was to
identify potentially negative environmental impacts associated with Rural Water
Supply & Sanitation (RWSS) Project and thereafter propose appropriate mitigation
measures. More details on the study requirements can be found in the Terms of
Reference (ToR).
The report is divided into seven sections, of which section one is introduction,
followed by section two covering policy, legislation & regulatory framework. Section
three gives some brief description of the project, followed by section four containing
biophysical & socio-economic baseline data. Section five outlines potential
environmental impacts and their mitigation measures. Section six contains mitigation
management and training plans; followed by environmental monitoring and checklist
of monitoring indicators in section seven.
The report is also comprised of nine Appendices, whereby Appendix I contains EA
checklist & Checklist of monitoring indicators followed by references in Appendix II.
Appendix IlIl is the summary of village baseline information. Appendix IV contains
water supply status in ten selected villages of Mpwapwa district, followed by water
quality data in Appendix V. The list of authorities contacted during the study is
shown in Appendix VI followed by ToR in Appendix VII. Finally, the list of study team
members and the Consultant's Curriculum Vitae are presented in Appendix VIII &
IXI, respectively.
1.2  The Study Area
The study area is the rural community of ten selected villages of Mpwapwa district,
namely Chiseyu, Sazima, Igoji-l1, Mazae-Nje, Berege, Ikuyu, Chamtumile,
Chaludewa, Chipogolo and Mtera.
Mpwapwa district is about 450 km from Dar Es Salaam City and lies between 4-7°S
and 35-37°E (Fig.1), at 850-1500 meters above sea level (m.a.s.l.). The landform of
the district is characterized by rolling and hilly topography. The district is divided into
five agro-economic zones (Fig. 2) with annual rainfall ranging between 450-800 mm
and temperature between 27-31 ° C.
The geology of the district is comprised by Ubendian/Usagaran systems, with gneiss
and meta-sediments of Precambrian origin, in the south and eastern parts. In the
north and western side, the geology is dominated by Dodomian systems, with
granites & granodiorites of Precambrian age. In the river valleys and lowland areas
the geology dominated by Quartenary alluvium with sands, gravel, and clay
materials. The geomorphology is African erosion surface of late Cretaceous-
Oligocene age, characterized by smooth plateaus with isolated hills.
I



The district occupies 13,329 square kilometres (kM2), with a total population of about
238,800 people. Again, the district is comprised of 3 Divisions, 15 Wards and 73
villages; with Mpwapwa town being its administrative headquarters. The main ethnic
groups in the district are the Gogo, the Sagara and Hehe tribes, although Gogo tribe
is the most dominant.
The economy of the district mainly depends on subsistence agriculture and animal
husbandry. Major food crops include maize, millet, sorghum, beans, and little
cassava. Cash crops include groundnut, sunflower, and vegetables. However, maize
is also cultivated in the district as a cash crop. The district has a total population of
about 118,000 cattle, 77,000 goats/sheep and a significant number of donkeys.
1.3   Purpose and Objectives of the Study
The purpose of this study was to conduct Environmental Assessment (EA) for Rural
Water Supply & Sanitation Project (RWSSP) Project in ten selected villages of
Mpwapwa District (Dodoma Region). The study was intended to identify
environmental issues related to various community sub-projects. Specifically, the
objective of the study was to identify negative environmental impacts and then
propose appropriate mitigation measures. However, in the end the intention is to
develop an EA Checklist and Checklist of monitoring checklist for different
community' sub-projects.
1.4  Scope and Limitations
In this study the Consultant's task was to:
* Develop biophysical and socio-economic baseline data.
* Describe the pertinent policies, legislation, regulations and standards governing
environmental quality at national and international levels.
* Assess the present handling of EA requirements and procedures, as well as the
GOT capacity to handle them in future.
* Identify potential community sub-projects and their environmental impacts.
* Propose environmental mitigation plan to minimize those negative impacts and
thereafter prepare an EA checklist for different community sub-projects.
* Develop an environmental monitoring plan and then prepare a checklist of
monitoring indicators.
* Identify institutional needs and capacity to implement EA recommendations at
national, regional, district and community (village) levels.
The study was intended to cover all ten selected villages in Mpwapwa district. These
include Chiseyu, Sazima, Igoji-1l, Mazae-Nje, Berege,- lkuyu, Chamtumile,
2



Chaludewa, Chipogolo and Mtera. However, due to limited time only eight villages
were studied, namely Chiseyu, Mazae-Nje, Chamtumile, Igoji-l1, lkuyu, Berege,
Chipogolo and Mtera.
1.5   General Approach & Methodology
1.5.1 General Approach
In undertaking this study the Consultant's approach was:
* To define and characterize the study areas by using 1:50000 scale topographic
map.
* To divide the study area into distinct agro-economic zones
* To identify the existing beneficiary communities in each agro-economic zone.
* To select representative sample communities according to spatial distribution
within those agro-economic zones.
The agro-economic zones were used as criteria for selecting sample villages,
because they reflect a local climate, and thus land use pattern and natural resource
potential. This also includes water resource availability.
1.5.2 Methodology
After selecting the representative communities, the Consultant divided the study into
two major components i.e. deskwork and fieldwork.
(a)   Deskwork
The deskwork involved preparation of survey forms and questionnaires, acquisition
and reading topographic maps, review of various documents, reports, etc.
(b)   Fieldwork
The fieldwork involved ocular (visual) surveys followed by filling up standard
biophysical and socio-economic survey forms. During the field physical inspection
was done on-site and whenever possible, water samples were collected for
laboratory analysis. It also involved formal & informal interviews, as well as focus
group discussion and/or carrying out meetings with local communities in the rural
areas. The Consultant also carried out discussions with responsible authorities at
national, district and villages levels. This provided an opportunity to get their opinion
on the project.
3



FIG. 1:   MAP OF MPWAPWA DISTRICT-RURAL ROADS AND VILLAGE
CENTRES
4



2.0 POLICY, LEGISLATION & REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
2.1  POLICY
The Government's concern and commitment to environmental protection for social
sustainability of national development is reflected in its three policy documents.
These include the National Environment Policy (NEP), National Environment Action
Plan (NEAP) and National Conservation Strategy for Sustainable Development
(NCSSD). Again, the Draft Environment Protection Bill (1994) and the Bill to enhance
the powers and responsibilities of National Environment Management Council
(NEMC) have already been prepared. Moreover, the Government of Tanzania (GOT)
is a signatory to the 1992 Rio conventions (i.e. Convention on Biological Diversity
1992 and Framework Convention for Climate Change 1992).
The overall objective of NEP (1997) is to raise public awareness and understanding
of essential linkages, between environment and development. Another objective is to
promote individual and community participation in environmental actions. This policy
objective is in line with the 2000 National Water Policy (NWP) approach, whereby
community participation and other stakeholders in water resource management is
emphasized.
The NEP policy addresses environmental issues from both natural and social
context, by adopting the principle of sustainable development. According to the
policy, exploitation/utilization of natural resource, investment and technology
development has to be carried out in a sustainable manner without compromising
the environment for the benefit of the current generation and of the future.
The NEP has developed proposals for enactment of framework legislation to address
environmental issues in line with international agreements, commitment and national
concerns. Main objectives of the framework are:
* To take into account various government agencies involved in regulating specific
sectors of economy.
* To integrate the activities of the government agencies.
* To promote co-ordination and co-operation among various government agencies
and define environmental management tools of general scope.
The framework intends to facilitate consistent policy and enforcement to ensure that:
* Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is carried out for any major development
project before its commencement.
* Environmental monitoring is done in compliance with the set standards.
* Environmental auditing is undertaken to evaluate the efficiency of environmental
organization, including its management and equipment being used.
5



The Ministry of Water & Livestock Development (MWLD) on its side has also
considered environmental issues in its 2000 NWP by identifying EIA as one of the
important legal instruments. One of the policy issues of major concern in the NWP is
environmental water need; that is, water needed to protect the environment. That
includes identification of major aquatic ecosystems, their ecology, hydrology and
meeting their in-stream flow requirements and quality level standards. The policy
also seeks establishment as well as, enforcement of effective regulatory
mechanisms for environmental flow requirements.
Based on its global principles the NWP takes into account cross-sector policy issues
related to water resource management. Thus, the policy gives emphasis on
improving the health and socio-economic well being of rural communities through
improved access to adequate and sustainable safe water supply & sanitation. The
policy also recognizes the relationship between lack of safe water and poor hygiene
& sanitation as the major cause of sickness and death, and of course poverty. It
identifies rural women and children as a vulnerable group living in poor conditions,
subjected to diseases and foregone opportunities. The policy strategy in this case is
to emphasize/promote health & hygiene education to rural people, rather than
providing water supply alone.
Thus, the policy is geared towards maximization of health impact to the rural
community, especially women & children through integration of water supply,
sanitation & hygiene education. The policy strategy here is to promote co-ordination,
linkage and collaboration with the Ministry of Education & Culture (MOEC) and the
Ministry of Health (MOH).
The policy also takes into account the livestock sector by recognizing the need for
water to livestock. Thus according to the policy there is a need to include livestock in
the designs of rural community water supply schemes. The principle statement is
that, there should be a provision for adequate water supply to livestock though
construction of charcos/dams and integrating livestock requirement in the design of
rural water supplies.
FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Findings
One of the important strategies in the NWP implementation is to promote water
supply, sanitation and hygiene education among the rural community. However, the
policy does not specify in its objectives the issues of environmental awareness and
education. For example, environmental degradation (vegetation destruction and
water pollution) of water sources is one of the major problems that could threaten the
sustainability of rural water supply schemes. It is therefore important that
environmental awareness and education should be given weight in the policy. That
should include promoting technologies that minimize environmental degradation. For
example, promoting the use of efficient charcoal stove (Jiko Bora) that consumes
little charcoal and conserves heat (e.g. Jiko bora). Again, use of red soil and cement
bricks for house construction in rural areas can be promoted to minimize vegetation
destruction or the use rice husks for burning bricks instead of fuel wood can be
6



promoted. Therefore, one of the policy objectives in this case should be to promote
environmental conservation and encourage environmentally sound practices and/or
technologies to protect water sources.
Another policy strategy is to make EA mandatory before execution of all major water
related projects. However, there are no guidelines developed by MWLD for carrying
out EA in water supply development projects. For example TANAPA has developed
its own EA guidelines for development projects being carried out in the National
Parks or Game Reserves. It could be important if the MWLD could develop its own
EA guidelines and environmental management plan (EMP).
According to the policy, environmental issues will be analyzed at planning level.
However, the policy does not give any implementation strategy to ensure that
environmental issues are incorporated in all stages of water resource development.
There should be an institutional reform in the MWLD by establishing an
environmental section. The responsibility of Environmental Unit should be to foresee
implementation of environmental management plans and co-ordinate and/or link with
the Office of the Vice President through its Environment Division and NEMC.
The question of water source protection and cleaning due to pollution has been
noted in the policy involves financing mechanism. However, up to now source of
funding largely depends on government budget and thus not adequate. There is a
need to lobk for other sources to complement the government budget. One of the
sources may involve introduction of water users charges (WUC) and polluter pays
principle (PPP). Other mechanism is to encourage local communities to actively
participate in water sources protection. The established community water funds
should be used in O&M water supply schemes and water sources protection.
Recommendations
* Environmental awareness and education should be given weight in the NWP.
That should include promoting environmental conservation and use of
environmental technologies that minimize environmental degradation.
* MWLD should develop its own EIA guidelines and environmental management
plan (EMP).
* There should be an institutional reform in the MWLD by establishing an
Environmental Unit within its WRD.
* The financing of water protection from pollution should involve introduction of
water users charges (WUC) and polluter pays principle (PPP). Other mechanism
should be to encourage local communities to actively participate in water sources
protection.
* The legislation to support implementation of EIA requirements in the water sector
should be incorporated in the Water Utilization Act.
7



2.2 LEGISLATION & REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
2.2.1 Legislation
The relevant legislation matters of environmental concern relate to Solid waste
Management, Pollution Control, Environmental Quality Standards, Land use, Health
& Safety, Protection of Wildlife, Sensitive areas, Unique Flora & Fauna, Protection of
Natural & Cultural Resource.
(i)   Protection of Sensitive areas & Unique Flora & Fauna
The relevant legislation in Tanzania related to preservation and/or protection of
sensitive areas and unique flora & fauna are:
* Fauna Conservation Ordinance2 Cap. 302 as amended by Acts No. 15 and 17 of
1963 and Act No. 7 of 1965.
* National Parks Ordinance, 1957 (Amendment) Act No. 44 of 1963.
* Forest Ordinance of 1957 Cap. 389, Forests Ordinance (Amendment) Act No. 43
of 1963.
* Land Ordinance, 1961 Cap. 113.
* Public Land (Preserved areas) Ordinance (Amendment) Act. No. 28 of 1965.
* National Land Policy (1997).
* Industrial Licensing and Registration Act of 1967 and with Amendments of 1982.
* Water Utilization (Control and Regulation) Act. Of 1974 as amended by the Water
Utilization (Control and Regulation) Misc. Amendment) Act of 1981.
* Fisheries Act. No. 6 of 1970.
* Wildlife Conservation Act No. 21 of 1974.
* National Environment Management Act No. 19 of 1983.
(ii) Solid Waste Management
The principle legislation that governs waste management is found in the Local
Government Acts, National Land Use Commission Act and Town & Country Planning
Ordinance. However, in Tanzania there is no specific legislation to address solid
waste management. The land use planning act gives local authorities the power to
designate land in urban areas for specific uses, like solid waste disposal. Besides
2 Law promulgated before independence.
8



that, the Common Law of Nuisance can be applied to waste disposal sites (e.g. Case
of Belegere Vs Dar Es Salaam City Council)3
The relevant policy is the NEP whose primary objective is to promote
environmentally sound technologies, that are less polluting, recycle more of their
wastes and handle wastes in a more acceptable manner than the technologies they
replace. Within the NEP, Health sector refers to provision of waste disposal services.
The industry sector refers to prevention, reduction, control and limitation of damage
and minimization of risk from general management, transportation, handling and
disposal of hazardous wastes.
(iii) Air Pollution
There is neither legislation nor definitions of standards or objectives pertaining to air
pollution. So far the only item of legislation is that which appears in the Penal Code
and Merchant Shipping Act, 1967.
The Penal Code stipulates that "voluntarily vitiating the atmosphere so as to make it
noxious to the health of persons in the vicinity" is a misdemeanor. The local
Government (District and Urban Authority Acts, 1982) contains provisions to protect
human health and regulates pollution problems. The Merchant Shipping Act, 1967
prohibits emissions of dark smoke from ships for more than five minutes in any hour,
within a certain distance from the shoreline. However, Common Law Principles of
Nuisance can also be applied in matters of air pollution (Belegere Vs City Council,
1985).
The NEP seeks to reduce and control impacts from industrial emissions through
location, control of emission and use of environmentally friendly technologies (Clean
Technology). The policy also seeks to establish permissible noise levels in cases of
noise-prone industries and construction sites. However, there are no established air
and noise quality standards, although draft proposals have been prepared by NEMC
(1997) for ambient air and emission sources.
(iv) Mining
So far, there is no legislation in Tanzania that specifically deals with control of land
pollution. However, this issue can be related to land use policy and regulations. The
NEMC Act has some provisions to initiate steps for the protection of environment by
preventing, controlling, abating or mitigating pollution to land, water air, etc.
The NEP addresses the issues of land pollution, especially in regards to mining
sector. It states that measures will be taken to minimize pollution from the mining
sector. These include reclamation and restoration of land after use, mining
discharges to ground and surface water. According to the policy land, ground &
surface water pollution shall be controlled and preventive as well as, clean up
measures for accidents shall be formulated and implemented. Similar policies are
also applicable to other industrial sector.
3 In 1985 the Residents of Kunduchi Mtongani. Dar Es Salaam successfully moved the high court to close a
dumpsite that was opened by the City Council in the residential area due to air pollution problem.
9



(v) Land use
The relevant legislation controlling land use and its management include:
* National Land Policy (1997).
* Land Ordinance Cap. 113.
* Public Land (Preserved areas) Ordinance (Amendment) Act. No. 28 of 1965.
* Town and Country Planning Ordinance were established to regulate land use
planning schemes for designated areas.
* Natural Resource Ordinance to create Natural Resource Board, responsible for
supervising natural resource.
* The National Land Use Planning Commission to advise the government on land
conservation and development.
* The Local (District and Urban) Authorities Acts (1982) to empower Local
Authorities to make by-laws on soil protection, agriculture, water supplies and
other natural resource.
Other legislation relevant to land use includes, Range Land Development and
Management Ordinance, Land Ordinance (1961) and Land Acquisition Act (1967).
Recently, the Land Act (1999) has been enacted to regulate land allocation,
including a village land.
The National Land Policy (1997) addresses issues of protection of sensitive areas.
These include water catchment areas, small islands, border areas, beaches,
mountains, forests, national parks, rivers, river basins and banks, seasonal migration
routes of wildlife, national heritage and areas of biodiversity. According to policy,
these areas or parts of them shall not be allocated to individuals.
The policy also deals with protection of hazard lands, such as, river valleys, areas of
steep slopes, mangrove swamps, marshlands. The policy recognizes that apart from
posing danger to life and property, development on those areas contributes to land
degradation, pollution and environmental degradation in general.
(iii) Water
The relevant legislation that covers water pollution and supply include the Water
Works Ordinance (Cap. 281), the Urban Water Supply Act, 7/81 and Water
Utilization and Control Act, 42/74. The Water Works Ordinance specifies that
pollution of water supplies constitutes a punishable offence. The Urban Water
Supply Act gives the National Urban Water Authority (NUWA, now DAWASA) power
regarding surface and ground water pollution. It specifies that pollution of surface or
ground water is a punishable offence. The Water Utilization and Control Act establish
10



temporary standards for receiving waters and effluent discharge standards. The
Public Health Sewerage and Drainage Ordinance Cap. 335, prohibits the discharge
of certain substances into sewers, violation of which is an offence and penalties may
be imposed.
The Government of Tanzania has also created the following bodies with specific
tasks to regulate water pollution. These include:
* National Urban Water Authority (NUWA now DAWASA).
* Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS)4.
* National Environment Management Council (NEMC).
However, there is specific legislation related to water resource management in the
country but also relevant to environment. These include:
* The Laws of Tanganyika 1947 & 1950 Cap. 281.
* Water Works Ordinance (Subsidiary Legislation) Cap. 281.
* Public Health (Sewerage & Sanitation) Cap. 336.
- Water Utilization (Control and Regulation) Act No. 42 of 1974.
* Urban Water Supply Act. No. 7 of 1981.
- Water Utilization (Control and Regulation) Amendment Act. No. 10 of 1981.
- Written Laws (Promotion and Protection) Act. No. 10 of 1990.
* Water Utilization (Miscellaneous Amendment) No.8 of 1997.
* Water Laws (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act of 1999.
Major topics covered in the law in Water Resource concern protection and
exploitation. In water protection important topics deal with:
* Ownership of water resource.
* Protection of water resource.
* Protection of flora, fauna and natural environment in water resource.
* Protection of water quality in other countries.
* Discharge of waste water in water sources
4Tanzania Bureau of Standards has also issued effluent standards for a limited number of specific industries in
the country.
11



For water resource exploitation main topics covered concern with:
* Regulation and distribution of water resource.
* Right of organizations and Individuals to exploit and use water resource.
* Obligations of organizations and individuals that exploit and use water resource.
* Issuing of permits for exploitation and use of water resource.
(iv) Health & Safety
Health & safety issues are also relevant to environment at work places, as it affects
the health and safety of workers. The items of legislation that are relevant to health &
safety are found in the Factories Ordinance and the Penal Code. The Factories
Ordinance deals with health & safety of workers at their work places. The word
"factory" as considered by this ordinance includes most places of work. This
ordinance sets standards for health, safety and welfare of workers. It empowers the
Minister for Labor to make rules for health, safety and welfare of workers. The
legislation states that: "Where the Minister is satisfied that, any manufacturer,
machinery, plant, equipment, appliances, processes or description of manual labor,
is of such a nature as to cause risk of bodily injury/harm, or to be offensive to the
person employed". Then the Minister shall take a legal action to protect the
employee." Thus, based on its broad context, the ordinance is also relevant to this
project, as far as construction works and operation of equipment on-site is
concerned. The Penal Code can be considered another relevant legislation to this
project. It restricts the practice of noxious trades and this restriction extends to cover
unsafe places of work.
The existing policy matters within NEP are relevant to Health & Safety. This is the
case because reduction of emissions and pollution from industry and adoption of
clean technologies are beneficial to workforce, as well as, the public. The specific
policy that refers to health & safety is the industry sector policy, that seeks to ensure
workers' health and safety are adequately protected from potential environmental
health hazards. Again, under the Local (District and Urban) Authorities Acts (1982),
the Local Governments have been empowered to make by-laws regarding public
health and safety issues.
(v) Vegetation & Wildlife
The Wildlife Conservation laws restrict hunting or cutting vegetation in the National
Parks and Game Reserves. However, the laws are less strict in the Game Controlled
Areas. The Wildlife Conservation Act protects wildlife and vegetation. Under the Act
the utilization of wildlife is restricted to license holders. The use of sensitive wildlife
habitats is restricted during a certain times of the year or for specific periods.
Wildlife Conservation Act of 1974 (amended in 1974) limits exploitation of certain
forestry resources by requiring specific licenses for harvesting and selling forests
products. The revised Forestry Policy of 1993 recognizes the important role of
12



forests in the maintenance of the environment, provision of forestry products and the
protection of watersheds and bio-diversity.
(vi) Marine and Freshwater Fisheries
The important item of legislation in the fisheries regulation is that which prohibit flow
or passing into water and solid, liquid or gaseous matter or cause water pollution in
any lake, river, dam, estuary or seawater. This legislation requires any person
responsible for pollution to clean the polluted water within a reasonable period at
his/her own expense.
Again, specific regulations were introduced in 1973 and 1982, under the Fisheries
Act (1970), to limit annual catches. The legislation also puts limitations on methods
of fish harvesting, including the outlawing of dynamiting and poisoning.
(vii) Cultural Resource & Heritage
The relevant items of legislation on these issues are found in the Antiquities Act and
Protected Places & Areas Act. The Act seeks to protect through regulation of access
to declared monuments, relics and conservation areas. The Protected Places and
Areas Act gives the Minister for legal Affairs the authority to prevent or control
movement and conduct of people in certain areas.
In addition to above legislation matters, Tanzania is a signatory to various
International Treaties and Agreements related to environment (MTNRE and Green
Globe Yearbook, 1993). These include:
* Convention on Preservation of Fauna & Flora in the their Natural set up - London
1933.
* Convention on African Migratory Locust - Kano, 1962.
* African Convention on the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resource -
Algeria 1968.
* Convention on the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage (World
Heritage Convention) Paris 1972 (UNESCO).
* Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and
Flora (CITES)- Washington DC, 1973 (UNEP).
* United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS)-Montego Bay,
1922.
* FAO International Undertaking on Plant Genetic Resource Rome, 1983 (FAO).
* FAO International Code of conduct on the Distribution and use of pesticide -
Rome, 1985 (FAO).
* Convention on Biological Diversity - Rio de Janeiro 1992 (UNEP).
13



* Framework Convention on Climate change - Rio de Janeiro, 1992.
FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Findings
The existing legislation within the sector ministries is adequately covered to guide
environmental  management,  including   EIA  requirements.  However,  no
comprehensive legislation that enforces implementation of NEP or empowers NEMC
to make EIA requirements mandatory and legally binding. Again, there are no clear
institutional responsibilities and supporting legislation to facilitate implementation of
NEP. This has lead into duplication of efforts and some times conflicts. For example,
in recent years there has been a contradicting opinion between the Office of the Vice
President and the NEMC regarding environmental pollution being caused by Karibu
Textile Mills (KTM)5
The issues of ground water utilization, pollution control and monitoring are not
adequately addressed in the current law. This may result into problems and some
times conflicts. For example, in recent years, there have been an increasing number
of individuals and institutions, which have turned into ground water sources
utilization. Monitoring of these individual water users is important because over-
extraction of ground water may result into problems. These include hydrological
imbalance, land subsidence and vulnerability of the land to tectonic effects
(earthquake). Therefore, question of water pollution, and allocation of ground water
resource among various users should be adequately covered in the legislation, to
avoid environment degradation and hazards due to uncontrolled extraction.
Another shortcoming with the current legislation is the lack of adequate
representation of water users, especially at village level. There is a need to review
the current legislation in order to cover water users at village levels. The village
governments should be encouraged to establish by-laws to protect the environment
and water sources.
Although there is a linkage between land, environment and water resource
management there is no strong co-ordination and linkage between the MWLD with
relevant ministries. These include the Ministry of Lands & Urban Development
(MLUD), Natural Resource and Tourism (MNRT) and Ministry of Agriculture & Food
(MOAF), as well as, the Office of the Vice President.
The water use issues are dealt with in various sectors, but they are not in harmony
with each other, hence difficult to prosecute offenders when it comes to water
pollution. Again, it may be not be appropriate to prosecute them in the absence of
comprehensive legislation. Therefore, such legislation should be established to cover
other sectors. The sector Ministries should then refer to the legislation on water
5 Karibu Textile Mills was ordered closed by the Chairman of NEMC but the Minister for Environment in the
Office of the Vice President had a different opinion. The factory had to be opened under the directives of the
Minister.
14



resource in matters related to their own sector's water use, consumption and
pollution.
Recommendations
* Formulation of comprehensive legislation should be speeded up to facilitate
implementation of NEP and empower NEMC to make EIA mandatory and legally
binding.
* There should be a clear statement of institutional responsibilities and supporting
legislation to facilitate implementation of NEP and reduce duplication of efforts.
* The question of ground water utilization, pollution and monitoring should be
addressed in the Water Laws to cope with the current situation, whereby private
and individuals participation in ground water works is rapidly increasing.
* Water users at village level should be covered in the current legislation and the
village governments should be encouraged to establish by-laws to protect water
sources and the environment in general.
. The respective legislation in sector ministries should be reviewed and
harmonized to avoid conflict of interests.
* Comprehensive legislation should be established to cover all water related
sectors and the MWLD should enforce legislation on various sectors' water use,
consumption and pollution.
2.2.2 Standards Governing Environmental Quality
(a)  International Standards
The relevant international standards governing environmental quality in Tanzania are
those developed by World Health Organization (WHO). However, other standards by
European Union (EU) and Norwegian standards are also important for comparison
with the National Standards.
(i)   European Union Standards
The following EU Drinking Water Quality Standard (November, 1998) are given as
Directives:
- Directive No. 75/490 EEC - concerns with quality of surface water intended for
abstraction of drinking water in the member states.
- Directive No. 80/778/EU - which relates to quality of water intended for human
consumption -specifically - maximum admissible one.
15



- Directive No. 98/83/EU - deals with quality of water intended for human
consumption but specifically deals with parameter value.
In European Union (EU), discharge standards are regulated for certain chemicals,
like mercury and cadmium. The standards set requirements for municipal treatment
plants for member states. In EU, discharge standards are included in the national
regulations, either in the discharge permits or in the general regulations.
Furthermore, the specific discharge standards for certain substances, such as,
mercury and cadmium, are not universal but only depend on a given type of industry
or factory.
(ii)   Norwegian System
The Norwegian system for classification of environmental quality of fresh water is
used for evaluation of environmental status and development. It states
environmental goals, evaluates the need for pollution control measures and the
effect of mitigation measures taken. Those classifications are based on the
knowledge about the effect of parameters and statistical occurrence of the
parameters in Norwegian fresh waters. The system also gives classification of the
suitability for different uses (Bjernstad, 2000).
In Norway, the Pollution Control Act stipulates that nobody is allowed to pollute
without a discharge permit. The Act specifies effluent standards, together with
general requirements for use of Best Available Technology (BAT), and Cleaner
Production Technology. The Norwegian State Pollution Control Authority (NSPCA)
has established a system of more individually specified discharge permits for each
polluting factory.
The Oslo-Paris convention concerns with the protection of North Sea, whereby
specific types of industries are given recommendations on effluent standards. For
example, whether Textile and Electroplating industries pollute the environment or do
not pollute. According to the convention, assessment should be made of how the
discharges may affect the environment. Polluters are required to monitor the
discharges and report to the relevant authorities and the public.
(b)   National standards
The national standards relevant to environmental quality in Tanzania are:
* Tanzania Water Quality standards.
* Tanzania Standards for Receiving Water.
* Temporary Standards for Quality of Domestic Water.
* Classification of Environmental Status for fresh water.
* Tanzania Standard for Rural water Supply - 1974.
16



(i) Standards for Rural Water Supply
The Tanzania standards for Rural Water Supply consider toxic elements, mainly
fluorides and nitrates, as inorganic compounds with effect on human health.
Generally, values for Tanzania standards are higher than those set by the European
Community (EC) and World Health Organization (WHO).
(ii)   Effluent & Receiving Water Quality Standards
The Ministry of Health in Collaboration with the then Ministry of Water, energy and
Minerals developed the Effluent and Receiving Water Quality standards in 1977.
These standards were adopted and appear as schedules under the Water Utilization
(Control and Regulation) Amendment Act No. 10 of 1981. The standards comprise of
receiving water quality standards, the effluent quality standard and the domestic
water standards.
The Effluent Standards deal with effluents for direct discharge into receiving waters.
The restrictions are that those effluents should not cause sludge or scum, and
should not cause change in color, natural taste or odor; and should not cause
temperature change by more than 50C. The standard also deals with effluents for
indirect discharge into receiving waters through municipal sewerage plant. It
specifies that effluents should not have more than 350C or not exceed 50C above
ambient temperature of supplied water.
The Receiving Water Quality Standards provide maximum permissible
concentration, and is divided into 3 categories, i.e. 20 mg/L for Category I & ll and 30
mg/L for Category l1l.
The Category I is concerned with drinking water supplies, swimming pools, food and
beverage manufacturing industries, pharmaceuticals manufacturing industries or
industries requiring water source of similar quality. Category II deals with the use of
water in for domestic animals, fishing, shell cultures, recreation and water for sports.
Category IlIl relates to water for irrigation and other industrial activities requiring
water quality standards lower than those in Category I and 11.
The Tanzania standards for water quality are regulated through Water Utilization Act
1974 (Amendment 1981). This includes regulation on pollution of water. Under the
Act no person may discharge effluents from commercial, industrial or other trade
waste systems into receiving water without consent duly granted by a Water Officer.
The standards related to effluents and receiving waters are specified and should be
complied with by users of water before or during discharge into watercourse,
receiving waters or municipal sewerage systems. The standards prescribed in 1981
amendment include standards for receiving waters, effluents standard and drinking
water standards.
In Tanzania, discharge permit is granted by Public Water Office (PWO) and Water
Basin Offices (WBOs) for new industries/plants only. Although old plants are not
regulated through discharge permits, they are required to comply with national
effluent standards.
17



FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Findings
It can be noted that the existing sector ministries in the country have legal authority
to regulate pollution discharge and they play increasing role in environmental
management. However, there are some shortcomings in effective implementation of
pollution standards in the country.
For example, there is no clear system for co-ordination, implementation or
enforcement of legislation and regulations. This is reflected in the current levels of
environmental performance in the country and low level of compliance to
international environmental quality standards, by public and private sector
institutions. Again, only few industries and municipal authorities do perform regular
monitoring of their effluents and there is no systematic reporting procedures
(NORPLAN, 2000).
Recommendations
To improve the situation the following recommendations are given for Tanzania
standards:
* Regulation of pollution should be based on Polluter Pay Principle (PPP), and
nobody should have a right to pollute environment. Polluters should give a proof
on the effect of their activities to the environment, that is, whether the activities do
pollute the environment or not.
* Enforcement of the requirements for discharge permits must be strengthened.
However, it should continue to be regulated through the existing Water Utilization
Acts.
* Pollution control and prevention on a system of discharge permits that focuses on
general environmental protection act should be established. That should cover
discharges to water, air emissions, and noise and waste (solid and liquid wastes)
production.
* General effluent standards should not be stated in Water utilization Act, but they
should be stated individually in the discharge permits. It should be specific to
actual (industrial) sector of industry and environmental status of the receiving
waters. Guidelines for effluent standard should be established, based on the
review of existing standards by NEMC
* Contents of an application for discharge permits should be specified in the
regulation and EIA requirements should be submitted to the relevant authority.
* Pollution control and mitigation measures should be specified by industries in
attending the expected effluent discharge in their applications for discharge
permits.
18



* The principle of BAT and the concept of Cleaner Production Technology should
be adopted. That should include procedures for handling of applications,
provisions for notification and public participation, appeals and timeframe.
* Regulations should ensure that relevant authorities and institutions are contacted.
* There should be a provision for existing industries to apply for discharge permits
in a specified time frame. The discharge permits should specify production
capacity, raw materials used, processing chemicals, products and solid waste
disposal.
* Discharge permits should be linked with license or other permits, specifications of
receiving water and municipal sewerage systems, discharge limits (intermediate if
necessary) and time limit. Other inclusions should involve operating conditions,
such as, the use of Cleaner Production Technologies, leakage control, minimum
water use, etc. Monitoring and Reporting requirements and procedures should be
specified in the discharge permits, as well as, improvement program.
* There should be a general condition and right for the relevant authority to inspect
the facilities and monitor the discharges. There should be a system of permit fee
and fees for inspection should be introduced.
2.2.3 EA requirements and GOT capacity to handle EIA
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is the process that involves identification,
analysis and predictions of all significant impacts due to development project
activities, policies and/or programs. The function of EIA is to predict the impacts of
projects, programs and policies on natural resource and environmental quality,
including communities that depend on or interact with them. It is a tool for collecting
and assembling information to be used for improvement of project design and
implementation. EIA is multi-disciplinary and interactive process that is aimed at
providing better understanding of the linkage between ecological, social, economic
and political systems. Although the word EIA is widely employed, it mainly involves
social, ecological and risks assessment.
The economic benefits of undertaking EIA at earlier stage of project design are well
known. For example, unnecessary social disruption and cost can be avoided by
incorporating EIA in the project design. Although some project proponents think EIA
is costly, experience shows that the cost of undertaking EIA usually do not exceed
1% of the total project cost (IIED/IRA, 1995).
The history of EIA goes back to 1969 when the United State when the national
Environment Policy Act was formulated. According to the Act all development project
has to undergo EIA. The intention is to identify any potential impacts resulting from
proposed project activities so that mitigation measures could be implemented to
minimize or if possible avoid those impacts. In 1986, the World Bank made EIA to be
mandatory in its bank financed development projects. Thereafter, the African
Development Bank (AfDB) and other multilateral and bilateral agencies including, the
19



United Nations (UN) agencies introduced EIA. Again, the European Community (EC)
in 1989 directed its member states to undertake EIA for major development projects.
In Tanzania, EIA was given more importance by GOT after the Rio declaration in
1992. According to principle 17 of the Rio Declaration, project proponents of any
proposed development activities that are likely to have significant environmental
impacts should undertake EIA. The NEP (1997) and NWP (2000) require that all
major development projects should be subject to EIA.
Since then, some initiatives have been taken by other sectors to incorporate EIA in
their policies and planning. For example, the Tanzania National Park (TANAPA)
policy requires EIA preparation for development activities within and/or adjacent to
the national park boundaries (TANAPA, 1994). The policy covers all development
activities by TANAPA itself, government agencies and private sector. EIA
requirement also includes the General Management Plans (TANAPA Planning Unit,
1994). Other sectors also include the Department of Wildlife, the Ministry of Energy
& Minerals (MEM) and Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO).
The Department of Wildlife policy requires EIA for all significant development
proposals within protected areas in Tanzania (Department of Wildlife, 1996). The
protected areas in this case include the game controlled areas, game reserves and
forest reserves. The Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority has also developed its
policy that makes EIA to be undertaken for any development project within its
boundaries. TANESCO has also made EIA to be mandatory for all power generation
projects and high-tension electricity transmission lines.
The Ministry of Energy & Minerals (MEM) has also incorporated EIA requirements in
its mining policy and has developed the Environmental Management & Legislative
Framework (MEM, 1996). According to the policy, EIA should be undertaken for
large-scale mining, and those mining licenses should be issued with rehabilitation
bonds.
FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
(a)   Findings
EIA performance in Tanzania constrained by lack of adequate expertise, institutional
weakness and absence of legal framework (IIED/IRA 1995).
Although NEP requires EIA to be mandatory for major development projects no
supporting legislation that clearly states the role and institutional responsibilities for
conducting EIA in Tanzania.
The EIA regulatory framework still covers only few protected areas such as national
parks, marine parks and game reserves. Again, the capacity to implement
recommendations of mitigation and environmental management plan is also low
within those sectors.
20



However, despite these shortcomings the existing legislation in different sectors
and/or sector laws can still help to guide and support the enforcement of EIA in
Tanzania. For example, the Tanzania National Parks (TANAPA) has made EIA to be
mandatory and it has already developed its own guidelines for carrying out EIA since
1993.
Experience also shows that procedures for conducting EIA are not adequately
followed (IIED/IRA), 1995) due to low level of awareness on EIA by the senior staff in
key institutions. For example, some of them have been noted (IIED/IRA, 1995) to
regard EIA as a constraint and that it can increase project implementation costs.
According to the findings, there is a wide range of organizations with expertise
relevant to EIA in country, but most of them have never been exposed to EIA
process and do not have EIA specific expertise (IIED/IRA).
The low level of EIA expertise in the country has been attributed to historical reasons
(IIED/IRA, 1995), as for a long time EIA studies in the country have been carried out
mainly by foreign consulting firms or individual consultants. However, in recent years
involvement of local consulting firms and/or individuals has been increasing,
especially following the World Bank policy to facilitate local capacity building. It
should be noted that, the increasing involvement of private sector on the national
development and future enactment EIA legislation would create more demand for
indigenous EIA expertise.
In general, it can be concluded that the present handling of EIA requirements in
Tanzania is constrained by lack of comprehensive legislation, regulatory framework
and institutional capability. The national capacity for management and
implementation of environmental assessment requirements is still limited due to
those constrains. However, GOT capacity to handle EIA in the future is gradually
building up as a result of institutional transformations, increasing awareness on the
importance of EIA and growing level of indigenous expertise. For example, more
sector ministries are now making EIA to be mandatory for major development
project.
The Environment Protection Bill and the Bill to enhance powers of NEMC has
already been prepared for enactment anytime from now. This will result into
formulation of comprehensive legislation to support EIA requirements and will
empower NEMC to make EIA mandatory and legally binding. Again, the Office of the
Vice President through its Environment Division has already worked out a Draft
Institutional & Legislative Framework for environmental management.
(b)   Recommendations
* There should be an overall political decision so that general regulations on EIA
are stated in the Environmental or Planning legislation. The process of enacting
legislation should be speeded up to cope with the rapid economic transformation
towards privatization.
21



* Since there is no overall EIA legislation the provision for EIA should be stated in
the Water Laws. The water policy review and Water Utilization Act should include
EIA requirements for water resource projects.
* The MWLD should develop its own guidelines on EIA to provide guidance on
more specific water related aspects.
* The existing expertise in MWLD should be harnessed to improve their capacity to
undertake EIA in water resource projects.
* There should be some training for senior staff to improve their capacity,
especially in preparing ToR for conducting EIA and EIA Reviews.
* Private institutions and the public should be educated on the importance and role
of EIA.
2.2.4 Institutional Needs and Capacity
The assessment of institutional needs and capacity focuses on the existing
institutional set-up for rural water supply & sanitation at project, village, district and
national levels. The intention is to identify whether the existing set-up is adequate for
implementation of water resource and environmental management plans.
(a)   Project level
The key actors in the implementation of rural water supply & sanitation (RWSS)
project are, the Central Government through the MWLD; the Local government
through the DCs , External Support Agencies (ESAs), Private Sector, NGOs, CBOs,
and Village Government (VG) through Village Water Committees (VWSS)
committees.
Project implementation involves establishment of District Water & Sanitation Team
(DWST) in the district responsible for providing information and maintaining link with
MWLD through Rural Water Division (RWD). The DWST is also responsible for
identification of eligible communities for financing and preparation of District Water &
Sanitation Plan (DWSP). Another responsibility is endorsement of policy principles
and establishment of district Water Supply & Sanitation (WSS) Fund.
(b)   Village level
At village level there is the Village Government (VG), comprised of Village Chairman
(VC), Village Executive Officer (VEO) and Village Hamlet Leaders (VHLs). Under the
VG, there are three main committees and several sub-committees. It has been noted
that formation of committees or sub-committees depends on the needs and/ or
requirements of a given community. For example, whereas Water Committee is
responsible for water & sanitation matters in the village, the Social Welfare
Committee is responsible of social & environmental issues.
22



There are some efforts being done by local people to form economic groups,
however lack of awareness and financial support seem to be a constraint. The rural
communities should be mobilized and encouraged to organize themselves into
income generating groups to improve their revenue base. This will enable them to
contribute more to their water funds, and hence effectively operate and maintain their
water supply schemes.
The existing committees and village governments have low capacity due to financial
constraints and lack of financial management and managerial/administrative skills.
There is a need to strengthen them through training and mobilize the rural
community to fully participate in the program.
The participation of women in village committees is low as can be noted by gender
representation (Appendix II, Table 4). There is a need to sensitize women and give
them opportunity to participate in the program through existing committees.
(c)   District Level
Presence of NGOs is a positive sign of capacity building at district level. For
example, since 1991 NGOs such as Water Aid, World Vision and the Christian
Medial Relief Council (CMRC) have been assisting the government in rural water
supply & sanitation projects. Another example is the WAMMA program established
by Water Aid. The program involves Water Department, Health Department,
Community Development Office, Education and Water Aid itself. The WAMMA
program emphases participatory and bottom up approach. Under the approach
funding of water supply schemes should involve donors, the Central Government
through the District Council and the rural communities. The program emphasizes a
demand responsive and participatory approach to rural water supply & sanitation
schemes. It also focuses on institutional linkage (NGOs, Government Departments &
District Councils) and sustainability through training In O&M of rural water supply &
sanitation schemes.
However, despite their significant contribution the NGOs can not be totally relied
upon due to their diverse interests and objectives, hence overlapping responsibilities
and/or sometimes conflicting interests. For example, World Vision focuses mainly on
children requirement for food, education, water, health and evangelism. Again,
whereas Water Aid covers many villages, CMRC covers only one division (Rudi
Division) and the World Vision covers two wards (Motomondo and Vinghawe).
Institutional set-up for water resource management indicates the District Council
(DC) is responsible for policy implementation, monitoring and evaluation. It is also
responsible for water resource and environmental protection, including conservation
of and protection of catchment areas through the District Environment Committee
(DEC).
In environmental management matters the DC through its DEC co-ordinates all
environmental activities at the district level and link with NEMC. It is also responsible
for policy formulation and establishment of regulations relating to environment
including by-laws. It ensures that environmental assessment are carried out for
23



projects likely to have environmental impacts, establish linkage with local
communities and maintains information on environment & utilization of national
resource in the district.
However, the capacity of the district council is limited by lack of adequate human and
financial resource. There is a need to build its capacity through training of manpower
and financial support. The lack of water laboratory unit at the Regional Engineers
Office is also a constraint in carrying out water resource and environmental quality
monitoring.
(c)   National Level
The institutional framework for water resource management shows that there is
Division of Water Resource (DWR) headed by a Director. Under the DWR there is a
Technical Section headed by Assistant Director. The technical section is comprised
of three departments. These include the Surface Water Resource Assessment,
Hydrogeology, and Water Resource Management (WRM). The department of WRM
deals with all aspects of water resource regulations and management, including
international water resource & pollution control. Other organs are the Basin Water
Boards (BWBs) and Basin Water Office (BWO) which regulate all declared river
basins. The Basin Water Office is headed by Basin Water Officer.
There is a National Water Resource Commission (NWRC) responsible for integration
of all water-related sectors. The secretariat of the committee is within the WRD and
the Director of WRD is the secretary. The chairman of the Commission is appointed
by the President. According to the proposed set up the Central Water Board (CWB)
will cease to operate. All functions of the CWB will be taken by NWRC, the WRM
and the BWBs.
The functions of water quality management are currently under the Water Laboratory
Unit (WLU). These functions will be shifted to the DWR and will be within the
Hydrology & Hydrogeology sections.
For environmental matters, there is the Environment Division and National
Environment Management Council (NEMC), within the Office of the Vice President.
The responsibility of the Environment Division is policy formulation, preparation of
environment action plans, maintaining co-operation and linkage with other sectors.
Another responsibility is to foresee implementation of national environment policies,
guidelines & regulations, including international treaties & agreements. The
Environment Division is headed by the Director of Environment with executive
powers under the Permanent Secretary in the Office of the Vice President.
The NEMC is the advisory body to the GOT in all environmental matters including
policy formulation and implementation. The Council is also responsible for
formulation of environmental strategies, preparation EIA guidelines, EIA and EIS
reviews and development project approvals. The body ensures that proper
environmental safeguards in planning and execution of development projects are
followed. It is also responsible for identification of EA Consultants and carrying out
24



environmental monitoring & audits, as well as, advising project proponents on
environmental issues.
The NEMC is headed by the Chairman of Environment whose responsibilities are to
advice the Council and the Government in general. Again, there is the Director of
Environment with executive powers under the Permanent Secretary in the Office of
the Vice President.
FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Findings
The existing institutional set-up at all levels is adequate for implementation of EA
recommendations in rural water supply & sanitation project. However, for effective
implementation of environmental & social safeguards some considerations are
needed.
Findings indicate that the NEMC is constrained by lack of funds and adequate
human resource to conduct environmental reviews, audit, monitoring and training. It
also lacks equipment to conduct on spot checks during monitoring.
The rural communities are constrained by lack of financial capability due to poor
revenue base. Again, the village committees and their governments are faced by
lack of financial management and managerial/administrative skills. Poor participation
of women in various committees could also be another obstacle to effective
implementation of rural water supply & sanitation program, as well as environmental
management in general.
Although the existing program by NGOs have shown some significant contribution to
rural water supply & sanitation schemes, they can not be totally relied upon due to
their diverse interest and objective. Moreover, their activities are of limited coverage
in the district. However, establishment of co-ordination and linkage with existing
programs can be useful in the implementation of rural water supply & sanitation
program.
The lack of funds and human resource in the district as well as absence of water
laboratory unit at the Office of the Regional Engineer could be another constraint to
effective water resource management & environmental monitoring.
Recommendations
To improve the institutional capability the following recommendations are given:
* Environmental Unit should be established within the RWD in the MWLD that will
link with the Vice Presidents Office through its Environment Division and NEMC
as well as NGOs, CBOs, and the rural community in general. The MWLD through
its Environmental Unit and NEMC should then agree on training program,
periodic spot checks (environmental audits) on completed sub-projects annually
to ascertain the level of compliance with mitigation measures.
25



* NEMC should promote capacity building through engagement of local institutions,
especially private sector in environmental audits & monitoring. It should also
develop training programs to improve their skills. The NEMC should also devise a
means of generating income by charging fees various activities such as
environmental reviews, audits & monitoring.
* Local people should be mobilized and encouraged to establish economic groups
in order to increase their revenue base so that they can contribute to water &
environmental protection funds. The people should be sensitized through
environmental awareness & education.
* Village governments and their committees should be trained on financial
management and managerial/administrative skills.
* Women should be mobilized and given more opportunity to actively participate in
various committees.
* Co-ordination and linkage should be established and promoted between the rural
water supply & sanitation program and existing programs by NGOs.
* Capacity for water resource & environmental monitoring at the district level
should be improved through training, establishment of well equipped and water
laboratory unit at the Regional Engineer's Office.
3.0 PROJECT DESCRIPTION
(a)   Background
This project is the result of the 1991 national water policy reviews. The policy
emphasizes demand responsive and participatory approach in service delivery to
rural communities. Under the new approach the local communities are required to
contribute and actively participate in financing, planning as well as operational &
maintenance (O & M) of their water supply & sanitation schemes.
The project is still in its design stage and so far its specific components for
implementation has not been defined. However, to-date a number of preliminary
studies has already been conducted as one of the preliminary stages towards project
implementation. These include, the Supply Chain Study (Baumann & Lymo, 2000),
Project Implementation Manual (MOW, 1999), learning innovation loan (LIL -
RWSSM, MOW, 1999) and the Review of Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Project
for Kilosa, Rufiji & Mpwapwa districts (MMK Project Services Ltd., 1999).
Another stage involved establishment of District Water and Sanitation Teams
(DWSTs) in each district. The responsibility of DWSTs is to provide information and
link (liaison) with the already established Rural Water Division (RWD) under the
MOWLD. In that connection the DWSTs are also responsible for identifying eligible
communities for financing according to guidelines stipulated in the District Water and
Sanitation Plan (DWSP). As shown in the Project Information Document (PID) - First
Draft the project is expected to take about 3 years and will be finance jointly by the
26



World Bank through IDA, the Government of Tanzania (GOT) and the Rural
Communities.
(b)   Purpose and Objectives
The purpose of the project is to improve the existing water supply & sanitation
conditions in villages and small towns in the country. The project aims towards
improving the health condition of the local communities through provision of safe,
clean and affordable water supply.
Specifically the objectives of the project are to:
* Rehabilitate the existing water supply schemes, and whenever necessary to
construct the new ones.
* Provide sanitation & hygiene education to the rural communities in the country.
* Promote awareness on HIV/AID prevention among the rural people.
- Sensitize the rural communities on environmental issues so that they can
manage their water supply schemes in a sustainable manner.
(c)   Components and Activities
The project implementation involves two major components, that is the national and
community level components. At community level, the project involves establishment
of District Implementation Models. Under this component the main activities include:
- Establishment of DWSTs.
- Strengthening of operational capacity of the DWSP.
* Appraisal of community sub-projects through on-site surveys.
* Establishment of DWSS fund for operation and maintenance community sub-
projects.
* Hygiene & Sanitation education and promotion of HIV/AIDS prevention among
the rural communities.
* Rehabilitation and construction of RWSS schemes.
At National level, the project will involve development of building up/scaling up
strategy for National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Programme. The major
activities under this component are:
* Consultation with stakeholder to develop strategy for scaling up and to develop
approach, scope, financing and institutional arrangement for implementation of
Nat. RWSS Programme.
27



* Development of institutional framework for project implementation.
* Promoting capacity building through involvement of private sector relevant to
RWSS, MWLD staff and other relevant complementary and partner agency staff.
(d)   Duration and Time Frame
The project is expected to take three years and the initial 6-month will be used for
project promotion through community mobilization and stakeholder consultation.
That will be followed by on-site surveys and developing designs for the identified
potential water supply schemes. The next step will be actual implementation, which
involves rehabilitation, construction of new schemes, training of rural community on
environment, hygiene and sanitation matters, as well as proper management of
water funds.
(e)   Beneficiaries
The direct beneficiaries of this project are the community members in villages and
small towns in the country. Indirect beneficiaries are the District Councils, Private
contractors, NGOs, CBOs and other organizations operating in the project areas.
(f)   Financing agencies
The project will be financed partly by local communities, the World Bank, the District
Councils and the GOT through the MWLD. Funds will also be sought from other
external support agencies (ESAs). For example through linking the project co-
ordination and planning with IDA -TASAF water component.
(g)  Implementing agencies
The MWLD will be the main implementing agency through multi stakeholder
Technical Advisory Committee (TAC). The TAC will be responsible for project follow-
up. Policy issues and dissemination of information related to the project. Other
implementing agency is the District council through the DWST. The DWST will be
responsible for preparation of District Water and Sanitation Plan (DWSP),
endorsement of policy principles and establishment of District WSS Fund. The rural
communities of the 10 selected villages will also participate fully in the project
implementation through their Village Water Supply and Sanitation Committees
(VWSS). Details on the mechanism for project implementation are described in the
Project Information Document (PID) prepared by the MWLD.
(h)   Sustainability
The sustainability is ensured through community participation. They will be involved
in important areas including contracting of goods and services, and operation and
maintenance of water supply schemes. The availability of goods and services is
ensured by involvement of district and regionally based Private Contractors, NGOs,
28



CBOs, and other Partner Organization (PO). Generally, the sustainability indicators
are:
Active participation by rural communities.
* Equal Gender representation in water & sanitation committees.
* Involvement of NGOs, CBOs, POs and Private sector in policy formulation.
Capacity building through training of WATSAN staff.
* Education and awareness on Environment, Hygiene & Sanitation issues among
the rural communities.
29



FIG. 2:  MAP OF MPWAPWA  DISTRICT-AGRO-ECONOMIC
ZONES
30



4.0 BIO-PHYSICAL AND SOCIO-ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
4.1   BIO-PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT
(a)   Climate
Mpwapwa district receives an annual rainfall between 450-800 mm and temperature
between 27-310 C. The highest rainfall is from January to March but from July to
October it is usually dry. However, the most part of the district is predominantly an
arid land with unreliable rainfalls.
(b)   Topography
The district is characterized by highly dissected topography with rolling and hilly or
and mountainous landforms.
(c)   Geology and Geomorphology
The geology of Mpwapwa district is comprised of Ubendian/Usagaran systems with
gneiss and meta-sediments of Precambrian origin in the south and eastern part. On
the north and western side, the geology is dominated by Dodomian systems with
Precambrian granites and granodiorites. However, on the stream/river valleys or
lowlands the geological formation is mainly Quartenary alluvium with sands, gravel
and clay materials.
The geomorphology is African erosion surface of Late Cretaceous-Oligocene age,
made up of extensively smooth plateau with isolated hills.
(d)   Soil characteristics
The soils vary from well-drained grayish-brown loam in hilly areas to reddish-brown
loam in lower zones.
The problem of land degradation is common in the district due to improper cultivation
practices, deforestation and overgrazing. The common type of land degradation
includes surface sealing, soil compaction and sheet, rill as well as, gully erosion.
(e)   Hydrogeology
The hydrogeology of the area indicates some variations in ground water recharge
potential. In most cases the low-lying areas with Quaternary alluvium deposits, the
recharge rate ranges between 1-15 LUs (liters per second) at 10-30 m depth.
However, in the elevated areas (consisting of weathered gneiss & meta-sediments,
granites & granodiorites) the recharge rate can range between 1-4LUs up to 60-m
depth.
31



(f)   Water resource availability
(i)   Ground water
The ground water availability in most of the project area is controlled by geology of
the area. In high elevations, the water table can be found at a depth of 60-100 m in
dry seasons. However, in some lowlands and within river or stream valleys water
table can be reached at a depth of 10 m during dry seasons. Due to its geology and
soil characteristics ground water can be obtained mainly by drilling deep bore holes
instead of shallow wells.
(ii)  Surface water
Most of the streams in the district are seasonal, although some few permanent
streams and natural springs exist mainly in hilly and mountainous areas. The
streams reach their maximum flow during March & April and start to decrease from
May to September, and from October to November, most of them are dry.
(g)   Water Supply & Quality
The existing water sources for the whole district include 15 deep wells and 19 hand
pump shallow wells. The coverage is 47 %, of the installed deep wells 90% are
functioning, and 63% of hand pump shallow wells are functioning.
No detailed analysis has been done on ground water quality in the study area, but
water samples from one bore hole at Berege village indicated high salinity (740 mg/l
as CaCO3) and fluoride (319 mg/l F) contents. The values are above the Tanzania
Standards of 600 mg/l for total hardness and 8.0 mg/I fluorides (Appendix IV). This
data is partially supported by local people as they complain that water from most
boreholes in the study area is salty. The turbidity level was also found above (119
NTU) the national standards (30 NTU). However, more investigation will be required
before conclusion can be drawn on ground water quality in the study area.
No analysis as done on water quality from the existing streams/rivers and natural
springs. However, pollution of surface water, especially streams/rivers and other
temporary water bodies can not be overruled due to human activities and livestock
as well as, incoming surface run-offs during rainfalls.
(g)   Air quality and sources of emissions
The major sources of emissions in the rural areas are bush fires, burning of fuel
wood and to a lesser extent charcoal as they produce smoke mainly containing
carbon dioxide (CO) and carbon monoxide (CO2). So far no attempt has been made
to estimate the amount of gaseous emissions being produced by those sources per
year, hence their contribution to green house effect.
Another source of air pollution is dust particles blown by wind, as most part of the
land in the district usually remains bare, specially following a prolonged drought.
32



(h)   Vegetation and Wildlife
The vegetation is dominated by wooded grassland, bush land and thicket with
Acacia , baobab and numerous xerophytes. Otherwise, pockets of forest occur in
mountainous areas with relatively high rainfalls. The general vegetation cover in the
project area is shown in the map (Fig.3).
There is no significant presence of wildlife in the district. except wild pigs, small
herbivores and other terrestrial mammals. However, birds, snakes and other reptiles
are common in this type of environment.
(i)   Significant Features
The Ruaha river and the Mtera dam on the southern part of the district provide
potential sites for eco-tourism. The Mtera dam apart from being a potential
recreational site is the major source of fish in the district.
(j)   Natural Resource Potential
The existing natural resources include timber, honey and beeswax. Forest reserves
also form one of the important sources of natural resource in the district. These
include Mlali, Ijogo, Wotta, Mafwemiro and Mangalisa Forest Reserves.
4.2 SOCIO-ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
(a)   Demography
The total population of Mpwapwa district is about 238,000 people. The total
population in the study villages is estimated to be about 28,327 people, with an
average number of 5.6 persons per household (Appendix II, Table 1.).
(b)   Human Settlement
The human settlements in the majority of villages occur in small isolated clusters.
However, settlement development pattern in most parts of the district follows roads
or tracks. The majority of the houses in the rural areas are "Tembe" type, built up of
mud walls and roofs are covered with grass and soil materials on the top.
(b)   Land use and land Tenure
The dominant land use is cultivation and cattle grazing. Land ownership is on
individual basis and always inherited or leased. However, the village governments
and District Councils, at village and district levels, control land allocation. The land
use cover for the project area is shown in the map (Fig. 3).
(c)   Socio-cultural condition
The main ethnic groups in the rural areas are the Gogo, Sagara, and few Hehe.
However, like any other town centers in the country people in Mpwapwa town belong
33



to multi-ethnic groups mixed religious denominations. However, for the whole district
the most dominant religion is Christian and Muslim.
(d)   Social Services
(i)   Education
There is at least one primary school for each village with a total enrollment of about
2887 pupils. The average enrollment ratio is 0.8 pupils per household. However,
inadequate number of teaching staff, classrooms, desks and tables is a problem in
the majority of villages.
(ii)   Water Supply & Uses
The water supply coverage in the district is 47% for the whole district with 15 deep
wells and 19 shallow wells.
Previous assessment (MMK Project Services Ltd., 1999) shows that, 90% and 63%
of the existing deep wells and shallow wells are functioning, respectively. However,
availability of adequate and safe water supply is a major problem in most of the rural
areas. All selected villages have mobilized themselves to establish water funds,
except Mtera village. The water supply status and water funds for the ten selected
villages is shown in Appendix l1l.
(iii) Health
Of the ten selected villages, only five of them have been found to have one
dispensary. The majority of villagers complained of lack of medicine and inadequate
medical staff. For those villages without dispensaries people have to travel long
distances to other places for treatment. Otherwise, people depend on traditional
medicines.
(iv)  Transport
The major means of transport in the villages is bicycles and walking. However,
people also depend on donkeys for carrying out luggage. The road condition in the
district is poor, hence making transport between the district and other parts of the
country some how difficult, especially during rainfalls.
(v)   Energy
The major source of energy in the rural areas is fuel wood and charcoal for cooking
and kerosene for lighting.
(c)   Agriculture
The agriculture largely depends on hand hoe with farm size ranging from small to
medium size. However, some households also use donkeys for cultivation. Common
food crops include maize, millet, sorghum and beans. Cash crops include maize,
groundnuts, fruits, oil seeds, onions and vegetables.
34



(d)   Livestock
The majority of people in the rural areas keep livestock. The district has about
118,000 caKtle and 77,000 goats/sheep. The number of livestock for some study
villages is shown in the village baseline data (Appendix II, Table 1). However,
livestock industry is faced with a number of problems including lack of enough
pastures, disease and inadequate medical supplies.
(e)   Sanitation, Hygiene & Health
Most households in the rural areas have unlined pit latrines with mud walls without
roofing materials. However, the pit latrines are not durable, as they always collapse
and sometimes overflow, especially during rainfalls. The latrines also produce bad
smell due to lack of ventilation. Most of the people in the project area are not aware
of the VIP latrines. Some households do not have pit latrines at all, although there
are by-laws to enforce each household to have a pit latrine.
Majorities of the people in the rural areas do not boil drinking water for various
reasons. These include, lack of time, loss of quality and taste, disturbance and
wastage of time. Others believe that water from taps is clean and safe. However,
ignorance seems to be the major reason as people fail to associate disease
prevalence among rural communities with poor hygiene & sanitation conditions.
Hygiene education is conducted by health officers in collaboration with primary
school teachers, water committees and village government leaders. Nevertheless,
hygiene education is not conducted on regular basis in the most villages.
The most prevalent diseases in the project area include malaria, diarrhea, TB, eye
disease (trachoma), typhoid, skin disease, meningitis and bilharzia. The most
affected group is children under five year age. In some villages, people associated
skin disease with eating green leaf vegetables without spices such as, tomatoes,
onions, etc. This kind of vegetables without spices is referred as "chukuchuku" by the
local people.
35



FIG. 3:  MAP OF PROJECT AREA-LAND USE AND VEGETATION
COVER
36



5.0 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES
In general, the project is expected to have positive (beneficial) impacts because the
project is aimed at improving the living standards of the rural communities and is
designed to be environmentally sustainable. Again, the intended community sub-
projects and their associated actions are expected to have little negative impacts on
human population and the natural environment in general.
A.   POSITIVE IMPACTS
The positive impacts expected from the project include:
* Increased income to the food vendors (though temporarily), especially women by
selling food to the construction workforce,
* Improved health condition to the rural community due to increased access to
clean and safe water supply.
* Temporary employment opportunity to the local people, especially youth and
women, as they shall be engaged in the construction work.
, Improved sanitary condition and hence decreased incidence of water borne
diseases.
* Improved skills in O&M of water supply schemes and financial, managerial and
administrative skills to the community leaders due to training package.
* Improved environment & sanitation condition in the rural community due to
education & awareness campaigns.
B.   NEGATIVE IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES
Identification of negative impacts has taken into consideration the nature
environmental impact and the type of community sub-project. The nature (source) of
impact refers to whether an impact is due to construction activities, community
actions or water resource use.
For easy presentation the likely negative impacts will be classified according to their
sources, that is whether the impacts are from construction, community actions or due
to water resource use.
(i)   Construction impacts
Vegetation destruction is likely to occur due to creation of access roads for
transportation of drilling rigs, equipment and installation of pipeline and other
associated activities. The impact could be mitigated by confining construction
activities on-site and along designated pipeline routes. The number of equipment &
machinery on-site should be limited by using more labor-intensive technologies.
Other measures should include landscaping and re-planting of vegetation on
disturbed areas.
37



Improper location of well sites in relation to pit latrines, burial sites and other sources
of contaminants may lead into ground water pollution. Thorough investigation should
be done during well siting in collaboration with local communities. Other pollutant
sources ground water pollution may be from geological formations (E.g. Berege
village). The impact can be mitigated by conducting water quality analysis and using
Tanzania standards as criteria for acceptance.
Loss of farmlands and/or other properties may occur during installation of pipelines
associated with Mechanized deep well or Gravity pipe water supply schemes. This
problem can be mitigated through diversion of routes, and if not possible
compensation should be considered for the lost property.
Production of drilling wastes and construction spoils may occur however that is not
expected to have significant impact on land and ground or surface water sources. All
drilling wastes and construction spoils will properly disposed in such a way that they
do not result into soil or water pollution.
Health & safety of workers may be at risk during construction. The problem will be
mitigated by restricting operation of equipment to trained personnel only. There will
also be a first aid box on-site administered by a qualified person. Moreover, the
contractor will be responsible for health & safety of workers on-site.
Incidence of STD & HIV/AIDS is likely to increase due to presence of construction
workforce in the rural communities. The chances of STD & HIV/AIDS transmission
can be minimized by promoting awareness and education campaigns among the
rural communities, especially women & youths. The number of workforce should be
to technical & skilled labor only. The rest of workforce should come from the rural
communities. The construction camp should be located far away from the village
settlement.
(ii)   Community impacts
Poor disposal of human excreta or construction of pit latrines close to water sources
may result into water pollution. The impact will be mitigated through extensive
education & awareness campaigns to promote latrine construction and use by local
communities. The community members and local artisans will be trained and
provided with instructional manuals on proper siting and construction of pit latrines.
The pit latrines will be sited at least 25 meters away and downhill of a water point.
The bottom of the pit latrine will be at least 2.0 meters above the natural ground
water table.
Encroachment of human settlement towards well sites may result into risk of ground
water contamination from pit latrines. The problem will by demarcating the
boundaries of well sites and enactment by-laws to prevent trespassing.
Cultivation and vegetation destruction around stream banks has been noted to
significantly result into erosion of stream banks, sedimentation of stream/river beds
and flood hazards (e.g. Muungano and Chanzuru villages). These activities create a
38



potential threat to the sustainability of water resource. The problem can be mitigated
by restricting cultivation to at least 200 meters away from the stream banks through
by-laws.
Destruction of vegetation on mountainous areas will result into drying up of natural
springs with negative impact on Gravity pipe schemes. The problem can be
mitigated through extensive community education and awareness campaigns on
environmental conservation and protection of water sources. The village government
should also enforce by-laws to discourage uncontrolled bush fires around the water
sources.
Damage to pipeline installations through cultivation and construction activities along
the pipeline routes by local people. This can be prevented by proper placement of
pipelines at an appropriate depth. The right of way will be declared and maintained
through community by-laws.
Accumulation of wastewater around well sites and standpipes due to people washing
or bathing near the water sources may lead into creation of mosquito breeding sites.
This problem will be mitigated through construction of standard design for concrete
pads with drainage channels to carry wastewater and/or spilled water into soak-away
at least 25 meters from the source. People should be restricted from washing and/or
bathing near the water sources through enactment of by-laws.
Human activities and livestock may have a negative impact on Pumped surface or
Gravity Pipes schemes due to pollution. The impact can be mitigated by water
treatment through filtration and chlorination. The community members will be
provided with hygiene education to ensure that they boil their drinking water. People
will be educated on water source protection and management through extensive
environmental awareness campaigns.
(iii) Water use impacts
Ground water over-extraction may lead into land instability, tectonic effects and
disruption of hydrological balance. However, the impact is not expected to be
significant due to small volume of water extracted for domestic purpose. But it is
important to take precautions by limiting the number of boreholes or hand pump
shallow wells per unit area of land and conduct periodic monitoring of ground water
levels. Ground water monitoring system should be installed to monitor fluctuations of
ground water levels and appropriate action should be taken whenever necessary.
Spontaneous growth of algae and other aquatic plants may occur in open storage
tanks or reservoirs due to temperature and exposure to sunlight hence affect the
water quality. This problem can be mitigated by properly designing storage tanks or
reservoirs (e.g. storage tanks should be able to reflect sunlight and properly
covered). The storage tanks should be cleaned periodically during operation.
39



C.  EA CHECKLIST FOR COMMUNITY SUB-PROJECTS
The proposed EA Checklist for community sub-projects is a list of all important
issues to be considered during environmental assessment of rural water supply &
sanitation project, depending on a given community sub-project. In this study the
potential community sub-projects include construction and/or rehabilitation of Hand
Pump Shallow Wells (HPSW), Mechanized Deep (Borehole) Wells (MDW), Pumped
Surface Water (PSW) and Gravity Pipes (GP). However, choice of community sub-
project (water supply scheme) will depend on the cost involved, availability of water
resource (quality & quantity). The proposed EA checklist of potential community sub-
projects is shown in Appendix I (Table 1).
6.0 MITIGATION MANAGEMENT AND TRAINING PLAN
6.1 MITIGATION MANAGEMENT PLAN
This project falls under Category B (World Bank Guidelines, OD. 4.00 Annex A)
since its environmental issues are specific and mitigation measures can be easily
incorporated into project design. Thus unlike Category A projects, this project does
not require detailed environmental management plans and as such, mitigation plans
do suffice. The proposed mitigation plan is summarized in Table 2.
TABLE 1: MITIGATION PLAN
POTENTIAL IMPACTS                     MITIGATION          TIME          IMPLEMENTERS
MEASURES            FRAME
(a). Construction impacts
Destruction of vegetation leading into soil Confine activities on- Pre-  Contractor
erosion because of access roads creation  site.           construction   monitored     by
during transportation of drilling rigs and                &             Supervision
other equipment to well sites and/or Use labor intensive  Construction  Engineer
pipelines construction.               technology.         phases
Land restoration and  Construction  Contractor
re-planting trees.  phase        monitored      by
Supervising
Engineer
Dumping   of  drilling   wastes   and  Removal &  proper Construction  Contractor
construction spoils.                  disposal   of   all phase         monitored  by  a
construction  spoils             Supervision
and   other  solid               Engineer.
wastes.
Loss of crops and agricultural land due to  Consultation    with  Pre-  District
crossing pipelines route or well siting.  community       construction   Council/Regional
representatives     &            Water  Board  in
when       locating  Construction  collaboration  with
pipeline  route  or phase        Water Committees
well/borehole sites.
Avoid damage to
private property but
compensation
should   be   paid
whenever
necessary.
40



POTENTIAL IMPACTS                    MITIGATION          TIME         IMPLEMENTERS
MEASURES           FRAME
Water pollution from pit latrines due to  Locate the wells at Pre-    Contractor
bore hole/shallow wells being too close to  reasonable distance  construction   monitored  by  a
human settlements.                   from pit latrines (at &          Supervision
least 50 m).       Construction  Engineer      in
phases       collaboration  with
Village    Water
Committees.
Fence off boreholes  Operational   Contractor
or shallow well sites phase     monitored      by
to         prevent              Supervision
encroachment   by               Engineer       in
people   due   to               collaboration  with
settlement                      Village     Water
expansion. The area             Committees
should be declared
protected   under
village by-laws.
Occupational health & safety of workers Contractor should be  Construction  Contractor
during construction                  responsible     for phase        monitored  by  a
health & safety of              Supervision
workers.                         Engineer.
Only       trained
personnel should be
allowed to operate
equipment on-site.
There should be a
qualified person to
administer first aide
on-site.
Increased incidence of STD & HIV/AIDS  Awareness     &  Construction  Health  Committee
due to construction workforce in the  education          phase       in    Collaboration
village.                             campaigns on STD                 with       Village
and HIV.                        Dispensary/MCH
staff.
Locate        the  Pre-
construction   camp  construction
far away from village  &
settlement.        Construction
phases
Limit  number  of Pre-          Contractor     in
workforce       to  construction   collaboration  with
technical &  skilled  &         Village government
labor only. The rest Construction  and    Supervision
of workforce should  phases     Engineer
come from the rural
communities.
B. Community Impacts
Bush  fires &  tree  felling  by  local Enforce by-laws to  Construction  Village government
community around water sources and  discourage    bush  &             and District councils
upper catchment.                     fires around  water Operational
sources       and  phases
catchment areas.
41



POTENTIAL IMPACTS                     MITIGATION           TIME         IMPLEMENTERS
MEASURES            FRAME
Promote the use of Construction  Water Committees
alternative         &            in collaboration with
construction        Operational  local NGOs, CBOs,
materials and energy  phases      etc.
sources to minimize
deforestation.
Initiate
environmental
education      and
awareness
campaigns.
Accumulation of wastewater around well Prevent people from  Operational   Village government
sites or standpipes due to people washing  washing or bathing  phase    in collaboration with
or bathing close to the water sources, close to well sites or           Village      water
hence into potential breeding sites for stand pipes though              Committees.
mosquitoes.                           enactment  of  by-
laws.
Construct  standard  Construction  Contractor    and
concrete  pads  for phase         Design  Engineers
standpipes   and/or              in collaboration with
hand pump shallow                Village      Water
wells     drainage                Committees.
channel  to  carry
spilled  water  into
soakways.
Encroachment to well sites and open  Fencing   off  and  Construction  Village Government
water sources due to expansion of human  demarcating       &            in collaboration with
settlement and farmlands.             boundaries of well Operational   Water Committees.
site/boreholes.     phases
Well/borehole  sites
should be declared
protected area under
village by-laws.
Pollution of open water sources due to  Treat   water  in  Operational   Trained  personnel
human activities and trampling by     storage tanks and/or phase        appointed by village
livestock.                            reservoirs       by               water committee.
chlorination,
especially in small
towns.
People  should  be  Operational   Water committee.
educated       and  phase
encouraged to boil                Local  dispensary
drinking water.                  staff.
Promote the use of               Village
pit latrines through             Governments   in
education  and  by-               collaboration   with
laws.                            Water           or
Environmental
Committees.
Damage to pipelines by local people  Declare right of way  Construction  Village government
during cultivation and planting crops with  (RoW) and enact by- &       in collaboration with
deep rooting systems along pipeline route.  laws   to  prevent Operational   Water      or
people       from  phases         Environment
cultivating    along             Committees
pipeline route.
42



POTENTIAL IMPACTS                    MITIGATION          TIME         IMPLEMENTERS
MEASURES           FRAME
Pipelines should be  Construction  Contractor
submerged   below  phase        monitored      by
the ground to an                Supervision
appropriate depth.              Engineer.
C. Water use Impacts
Spontaneous growth of algae and other Proper design  for Pre-         Contractor
waterweeds in open storage tanks or water storage tanks construction   monitored     by
reservoirs  due  to  temperature  and  and /or reservoirs.    &       Supervision
exposure to sunlight.                                    Construction  Engineer
phases
Periodic cleaning of Operational   Trained  personnel
water storage tanks phase       appointed      by
and/or reservoirs.              Village     water
Committee
Over-extraction of groundwater leading  Amount  of  water Construction  Contractor
into  land  instability  and  hydrological extracted  for phase       monitored      by
imbalance.                           domestic purpose is              supervision
not  expected  to               Engineer.
cause    significant
impacts. However, a
precaution may be
taken  limiting  the
number of wells or
boreholes per unit
area.
Periodic  monitoring  Operational   Trained  personnel
of  ground  water phase         appointed      by
levels  should  be              Village     Water
instituted.                     Committees
6.2 TRAINING PLAN
The training plan should take into consideration the needs of the target groups at
district and village levels. The training need assessment also considers the on-going
policy and institutional changes, and the importance of private sector participation.
The contents of the training course should focus on the needs of the local
communities as direct beneficiaries and implementers of the project. Thus, their
curriculum should focus in enabling them utilize the existing natural resources,
including water in a sustainable and environmentally sound manner. In that case,
training programme should focus on the relationship between water resource,
environment and sanitation & hygiene. Indeed environment should be central and
crosscutting issue water, sanitation & health, forestry, fisheries, agriculture and
wildlife. Again, to ensure successful implementation of environmental mitigation
plans the target groups should be exposed to existing policies, legislation and by-
laws related to environment and water resource management. Other important
aspects   of   the   training    programme    should   include   financial   &
managerial/administrative skills, especially for Village government leaders and Water
committees.
43



So that training programme can be effective, the consultant proposes a SMART
approach. That is, training programme should be Specific in its contents, with
Measurable out put, Achievable objectives and/or goals, Realistic in local context
and should be delivered within a certain Time frame. In this connection, the
programme should ensure awareness training and public education is provided to
cover all stakeholders, especially the water users at community level and the rural
community in general.
(a)   Training Programme
The training Programme should proceed in three stages, whereby Stage I shall start
with sector expertise at the district level (e.g. District Natural Resource Officers) and
Local artisans (VIP latrines). The implementers of the programme at this stage
should involve local NGOs, Private Consultants and/or Relevant Institutions. This is
expected to take at least two (2) weeks. The expected output should be Trained
expertise as Trainers of Trainers. Again, the trained expertise in collaboration with
Local NGO should start to train representatives of Youth & Women Groups
(Economic Groups), Village Committees and Local artisans (Construction of VIP
latrines), in Stage 11. The output shall be the Trained Representatives from Village
Committees, Youths & Women Groups and Local artisans. The training programme
is expected to start 6 months before project implementation and will take at least
three (3) weeks to complete.
In Stage Ill the programme will involve the rural communities in general. The training
shall take off during project implementation and become a continuous process as on-
the job training, assisted by trained groups. At this stage, the programme will be a
form of more or less awareness and education campaigns to mobilize the rural
people in incorporating environmental sanitation & hygiene issues in their daily life.
Finally, there shall be a periodic follow-up to evaluate the effectiveness of the
training programme. This shall be done by qualified local consultants dealing with
Environment and Socio-economic issues. The consultants should provide feedback
to the responsible authorities at community (Village government), district (District
council) and national levels (MWLD). The proposed training plan is summarized in
Table 3.
(b)   Contents of the Training
Specifically, the contents of the training course shall include, but not limited to:
* Ground water monitoring techniques (quality & quantity).
* Sanitary survey techniques including how to fill monitoring survey forms.
* Existing policies, legislation, regulations and by-laws pertaining to environment
and water resource management.
44



* Construction of VIP latrines and wastewater disposal chambers by using cheap
and locally available materials, especially the local artisans. The local artisans will
be provided with instructional manuals.
* Relationship between land degradation (vegetation) and water resource (quantity
& quality), with emphasis on hydrological cycles.
* Effect of water pollution on human health & poverty with emphasis on the
relationship between poor sanitation & hygiene conditions and prevalence of
waterborne & sanitary related diseases.
* Financial and managerial skills, especially Village Government leaders, Village
Water committees, Youths & Women economic Groups.
(c)   Training methods & materials
The methodology should involve case studies, site visits and general awareness
campaigns. The training materials at community level shall include posters,
pamphlets, theatres and video shows, etc.
(d)   Source of Funding
The major source of funding to implement the training programme should come from
the District Councils, the Government of Tanzania, through the MWLD and the World
Bank. Other funds should be sought from external support agencies (ESAs).
45



TABLE 2:  PROPOSED TRAINING PLAN
STAGES   TARGET GROUP                IMPLEMENTERS           CONTENTS                                TIMING    DURATION    OUTPUT
STAGE I  Sector expertise at District Qualified  local NGOs, Ground water monitoring and sanitary  12          2 weeks
level (e.g. District Natural Private  Consultants  &  survey techniques.                 months
Resource Officers)       related Institutions.   Existing policies, & legislation regulations  before
and by-laws pertaining to environment &  project                trainers.
water resource.                        starts.
Land degradation and water resources
availability & quality with emphasis on
hydrological cycle.
Effect of water pollution on human health
and poverty with emphasis on sanitation &
hygiene.
STAGE II  Representatives from:      Sector expertise       As above                                As above  3 weeks        Trained
-  Youths  &   Women                                                                                              representatives
Groups
-Village committee.
- Village Members
Local artisans.           Local NGO dealing with  Construction   of  VIP  latrines  and  As above                 Trained  local
promotion    of   VIP  wastewater disposal  chambers  using                             artisans.
latrines,              cheap and locally available materials.
Representatives from:     Financial and Business  Financial    and    Managerial    or                            Trained village
Institutions           Administrative skills.                                           committees  &
-  Youths  &   Women                                                                                              village
Groups.                                                                                                           government
leaders.
-Village committee.
- Village Members
STAGE    Rural  communities  in  Sector   expertise  in  Education & awareness campaigns on  During    Continuous    Increased
IlIl       general.                  collaboration with Water environment,  sanitation   &   hygiene  and after              awareness on
&         Environment promotion.                               project                  environment,
Committees.                                                    impleme                  sanitation    &
ntation.                 hygiene
matters.
46



7.0 ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING
The objective of monitoring plan is to ensure that the proposed mitigation measures
are properly followed and effective. Monitoring will also provide an opportunity to
identify unforeseen negative impacts during and after the project implementation.
However, in order to assess the achievement of mitigation measures there should be
some monitoring indicators supported by evaluation criteria. The proposed checklist
of monitoring indicators and evaluation criteria are shown in Appendix I (Table 2).
(A) MONITORING ACTIVITIES
During monitoring attention should be paid on the contractor's activities on-site and
community activities. This is to ensure that the proposed mitigation measures are
properly followed during construction and operational phase.
(i)   Monitoring the Contractor
Monitoring the contractor is necessary to ensure that the contractor follows the
proposed mitigation measures during construction. Those important issues to be
monitored include:
* Preservation of natural landscape: The natural landscape should be preserved as
much at possible by limiting the operation on-site. Unless otherwise required for
installation of campsite or dumps, all trees, shrubs should be protected from
unnecessary damage.
* Restoration of landscape: This should be done by replanting or reseeding to
prevent further damage due to potential soil erosion. Again, restoration should be
done according to ecological design to provide opportunity for lost natural habitat
to be recovered.
* Contractor's facilities on-site: The sitting/location of contractor's facilities like labor
camp and warehouse should be planned. This will help to decide a scenic quality
of an area after construction is complete. The facilities should be located in such
a way that the natural environment is maintained.
* Demolition of Labor Camp: The labor camps and other buildings should be
considered for future use by the local community whenever possible. For
example, the village water committees or village government can use a building
as an office, if it can be foreseen before. However, if after use is not possible the
facilities should be demolished and the area be restored to its quasi-original
state/condition.
* Location of labor campsite: the labor camp should be located far from village
settlement and fenced off from the surrounding areas. In those areas with
frequent bush fires, a campsite should be surrounded by a buffer zone to avoid
damage to the camp due accidental fires.
47



* Accidental spillage & leakage: The contractor should avoid or minimize spillage of
contaminants, debris or other pollutants, especially into natural streams/rivers or
ground water sources. This also includes sanitary wastes, tailings, petroleum
products, drilling chemicals, biocides, mineral salts, etc.
* Solid & Liquid Waste Disposal: The contractor should make sure waste materials
disposed by burial do not contaminate ground water supplies.
* Community participation: The local community, especially the water committees
should participate in monitoring and that should be specified in the contract
document.
(ii) Monitoring the Communities
Monitoring of communities should focus their general conditions and their on-going
activities during construction and operation of water supply schemes. The important
issues to be monitored may include:
m On-going human activities around water sources.
X Expansion of human settlement and other land use pressure in vicinity of well
sites or other water sources.
- Method of pumping water and drawing water from wells or other sources.
- Presence and condition of pit latrines as well as wastewater disposal facilities.
* Prevalence of water-borne diseases and changes in the human health condition
and general community welfare, etc.
(B) IMPLEMENTATION OF MONITORING PROGRAMME
The monitoring programme is proposed to start immediately during the
commencement of construction activities and continue after commissioning of the
project.
It is proposed that monitoring should involve an Environmental Assessment (EA) and
Social Assessment (SA) specialists in collaboration with district level experts (E.g.
DWE, Health Officers, Community Development Officers, etc.) and Village Water
Committees. Involvement of EA & SA specialists should provide a learning
opportunity for Water Committees and sector expertise. The participation of EA & SA
specialists will gradually phase out towards commissioning of the project. It is
expected that during the period sector expertise and Water Committees will have
acquired sound knowledge on EA & Monitoring techniques.
However, the engagement of EA and SA specialists take place at least once par
month during construction and continue for a period of six months after
commissioning. The EA and SA experts should be responsible for submission of
48



monitoring progress reports after every three months to the Client and the World
Bank.
49



APPENDIX I:    EA  CHECKLIST AND  CHECKLIST  OF MONITORING
INDICATORS
TABLE 1: EA CHECKLIST FOR COMMUNITY SUB-PROJECTS
Ground water pollution due to improper location by well sites being close to pit latrines, burial sites
or other sources of contaminants.
Clearing of vegetation due to creation of access roads for transporting of drilling rigs and other
equipment to well sites, or during installation of water supply pipelines.
Accumulation of wastewater as a result of people washing or bathing close to the well site or stand
pipes, hence resulting into creation of potential breeding ground for diseases vectors such as
mosquitoes.
Presence livestock grazing close to well sites that may jeopardize the water quality.
Presence of nearby cleaning activities by local people (e.g. bathing and/or washing that could
contaminate ground water.
Soil and ground /surface water pollution from construction spoils, oil or drilling chemicals being
used on-site.
Pollution of ground water due to being close to soil surface, seepage of contaminated water.
Loss of agricultural land, human settlements and other properties.
Vegetation destruction around water sources and catchment areas due to tree felling and bush
fires by local people.
Pollution of surface water sources from upstream activities by local people and livestock or wild
animals.
Encroachment to water sources due to expansion of human settlement leading into pollution of
ground water from pit latrines.
Crossing of farmlands, footpaths and other linear infrastructure by water supply pipelines.
Disruption of hydrological balance leading into land instability and subsidence due to over-
extraction of ground water.
Loss of sites of economic, ecological, cultural, archaeological or historic importance.
Loss of vulnerable species of economic, ecological or cultural importance.
Soil erosion, especially along slopes due to vegetation clearing during construction.
Soil compaction or changes in drainage and soil permeability around well site due to construction
activities.
Air pollution due to dust and exhaust fumes from construction equipment and vehicles being used
on-site.
Changes in downstream aquatic and riverine habitats and their associated food chain due to
abstraction and diversion of water from streams/rivers.
Spontaneous, -unplanned human, agricultural or livestock keeping settlement due to induced
development.
Increase in the demand for natural resource (e.g. fuel wood, arable land & water resource) or
pressure on land, infrastructure and social services (e.g. schools, dispensaries, housing, etc).
Changes in the quality of ground water (salinity) due to over-extraction of ground water leading into
infiltration of salt water into borehole/shallow wells (e.g. in coastal areas, flood plains).
Changes to recharge rates and circulation of ground water table.
Changes in surface water due to reduction of inflow and quantity of water downstream, changes in
direction, sedimentation, pollution capacity, stream/river bank erosion, etc.
Spontaneous growth of algae or waterweeds in water storage tanks/reservoirs or ring wells due to
temperature and penetration of sunlight.
Presence of natural disasters (e.g. floods, earthquake and drought) that may affect the
sustainability of water supply scheme.
Prevalence of waterborne and sanitary related diseases.
Health & safety problems associated with construction activities
Socio-economic conflicts or conflicts over ownership rights, land use and natural resource
exploitation.
Contamination of water in Ring wells due to poor handling or using dirty containers or due to
surface run-off entering a well during rainfalls.
50



TABLE 2: CHECKLIST OF MONITORING INDICATORS
MONITORING INDICATORS                    EVALUATION CRITERIA
I.  WELL/BOREHOLE SITES
Hand pump base condition (strength).     Durability/Strength.
Location of pit latrines, burial sites, graveyards Distance (at least 50 m)
and other contaminant sources relative to well
sites.
Location of soakways from well sites.    Distance (at least 25 m).
Location of water table relative to pit latrine Distance (at least 2.0 m).
bottom
Presence of animal and or human waste Cow dung and/or human wastes.
around wel sites.
Presence of standing wastewater around well Standing water with mosquito larvae.
sites and disease transmitting vectors
Presence of livestock water drinking troughs Number of charcos
___ (charcos).
Presence of concrete pads and drainage Standard design (RWSD)
channel for carrying water to soak-ways.
On-going  human  activities  around  well People washing and/or bathing
sites/stand pipes.
Presence of spilled oil, drilling wastes and  Oil, drilling mud, soil, rock waste, etc.
other construction wastes.
11.  WATER RESOURCE
Ground water levels and recharge rates.  Depth (m) and recharge rate (Us)
Changes in water quality                 Tanzania standards.
On-going human activities around natural Bush fires, tree felling, cultivation, etc.
water sources and catchment areas.
Characteristics of water storage tank/reservoir. Standard design.
III HEALTH & SAFETY
Incidence of waterbome and sanitary related  Malaria, diarrhea, typhoid, trachoma, etc.
diseases.
Prevalence of STDs and HIV/AIDS among the Reported STDs and HIV/AIDS cases.
rural people.
Presence of first aid-box  on-site during Completed first aid kit
construction.
Incidence of accidents due to construction  Reported cases.
activities.
IV  SANITATION & HYGIENE
Presence and conditon of pit latrine (e.g. VIP)  Number of households.
Presence of wastewater disposal facilities  Number of households.
Drinking water handling practice (e.g. boiling).  Number of households.
V.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
Presence of water committees and water fund Water committee operating bank account
contribution.
Gender representation in village committees.   Number of Men against Women.
Presence of active economic groups.      Number of groups & their economic
activities.
Community  awareness  &  education  on  Environmental conservation, sanitation &
environment, sanitation & hygiene matters.  hygiene practice.
51



Presence and enforcement of by-laws on Existing by-laws.
environment & water resource protection.
VI. SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONDITION
Changes in local people's livelihood.    Income per capita
Improved  access to  good  quality water Distance  of  water  source  from
resulting into increased opportunity by women  households (not more than 400 m).
to participate in other productive activities.
Educabon.                                Number of schools & enrollment.
Medical services.                        Number of dispensaries & availabilty of
medicine.
Transport.                               Road network conditions & major means
of transport
52



APPENDIX II:   REFERENCES
Baumann & Lymo, B. (2000). Tanzania Supply Chain Study Report. Skat,
Switzerland & Serviceplan Ltd, Tanzania.
Bj0rnstad, (2000). Environmental Impact Assessment in Tanzania. Assessment and
Proposed Guidelines for Water related Project. Ministry of Water-River Basin
Management & NORPLAN.
Bj0rnstad, (2000). Water Quality Standards. Assessment and Proposal for Revision
Conyers, D., Ngumbulu, P.J & Rajabu A.R.M.S. (1971). Agro-economic zones of
Dodoma and Singida. Research Report No. 47. Bureau of Resource Assessment
and Land use Planning
IRA/IIED, (1995). Environmental Assessment in Tanzania. A needs Assessment for
Training.
Mercier, Jean-Roger, (1995). Environmental Assessment and Review in Sub-
Saharan Africa. An Africa RegionNVorld Bank Respective. Environmentally
Sustainable Development Division. Africa Technical Department (AFTES). The
World Bank.
MLHSD, (1997). National Land Policy. The United Republic of Tanzania.
MMK Project Services Ltd. (1999). Rural Water Supply Review in three Pilot District.
Rural Water Supply & Sanitation. Learning and Innovation Loan - LIL
MOW, (1999). The United Republic of Tanzania. Rural Water Supply & Sanitation
(Leaming and Innovation). Loan (LIL-RWSSP). Draft Implementation Manual.
MOW, (2000). Draft National Water Policy. The United Republic of Tanzania
Mwalyosi R. & Hughes, R. (1998). The Performance of EIA in Tanzania. An
Assessment. IRA Research Paper No. 41. lIED Environmental Planning Issues No.
14.
NORPLAN, (?000). Review of Water Resource Management Policy Legislation and
Institutional Frameworks. Final Report. Ministry of Water United Republic of
Tanzania
TANAPA (1994). National Policies for National Parks in Tanzania. Tanzania
National Parks. March, 1994 66pp.
TANAPA (1993). Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure and Screening
Guidelines. Tanzania National Parks, Arusha.
The Land Act, (1999). The United Republic of Tanzania Act Supplement No. 6 21 of
May 1999. Gazette of the United Republic of Tanzania No. 21, Vol. 80
53



The Village Land Act, (1999). The United Republic of Tanzania. Act Supplement No.
7 of 21st May 1999. Gazette of the United Republic of Tanzania No. 27, Vol. 80
Water Laws (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act. Gazette of the United Republic of
Tanzania. No. 16 Vol. 80, Dar Es Salaaml6 April 1999
World Bank Operational Manual. Operational Directive (OD.4.00 Annex A). October
1989.
TANAPA Planning Unit (1994). Management Zone Plan: Tarangire National Park.
Environmental Impact Assessment. Prepared for Tanzania National Parks
(TANAPA).
54



APPENDIX IlIl:    VILLAGE BASELINE INFORMATION
1.    Demography
The total population for the study village is estimated at 28,327. Based on the
existing household data the average number of persons per household is estimated
to be 5.6 (Table 1).
2.   Social Services
(i)   Education
The total number of enrollment is about 2887 pupils for the eight studied villages in
the project area. Therefore basing on the existing households in the studied villages,
the enrollment ratio (number per household) is estimated to 0.58.
There is a problem  of inadequate            
classrooms, teacher's houses and long                   
distance walked by children to school 
(E. g.  Chiseyu).  However,  District    dret
Based   Support  Programme   o n   p&n
Education (DBSPE) is providing some
assistance. Some donors contributed   s l t l
4,900,0001=  and  people  collected 
stones and  bricks. The efforts to E       l
improve primary education are also i
demonstrated by "Klasta" programme b                IA
in Chipogolo village (Box 1).
(ii)   Health
The field survey shows that four out of  e
eight  study  villages  have   one ac(feFonir-tIat
dispensary each. However, in those   t         t
villages with dispensaries lack of 
medicine and inadequate staff has th4   tct.o
been reported to be a problem (Table e   W1 _
3).
The most prevalent water borne and sanitary related diseases is malaria followed by
diarrhea, respiratory diseases, skin infection, eye infection (trachoma), typhoid,
tuberculosis (TB) and meningitis (Table 3).
(iii)  Transport
The major means of transport in all villages is bicycle and walking. The majority of
people also use donkeys for carrying luggage and cultivation. The road network in
the rural area is poor and communication is some how difficult, especially during
rainfalls.
55



(iv)   Energy
The main source of energy in all villages is fuel wood and charcoal for cooking and
kerosene for lighting during the night.
3.   Water supply & Quality
The problem of water shortage is acute nearly in all villages in the project area. For
example, at Chiseyu village the only water sources are 3Nos. Hand pump and
traditional wells at Gulwe, about 5 km from the village and Chinyasungwi stream,
about 8-km. Another potential source could be rainwater, but rainwater harvesting is
being under mined by the fact that most of the houses in the project are "Tembe"
type i.e. their roofs are made up of soil or mud.
In most bore holes water is also unsuitable for domestic purposes due to high
salinity. For example, laboratory analysis has shown water from one of the boreholes
in Berege village to be very saline and turbid
(Appendix V). Problem of inadequate water
supply is demonstrated by people from
Chamtumile village (Box 2).                         .
At lkuyu village, there is a Gravity pipe but   dee   f
according to them, the installation is always   corsqquiiht  me
damaged by storm water during rainfalls. .
They have proposed that the intake should  the;locl:, p6eoflS;
be reinforced with concrete to protect the   anotherr   reab
pipes. The villagers were also concerned   vlIage'-ta  cu
about Gate valves being  destroyed  by   AcXorinth
people  through   mishandling   due  to   de?d on nvhr 
ignorance. The villagers have also identified  tY. do nilt t:1
another potential source for Gravity pipes   resource use co"' flicwhf
installation. According to them, the source
was  assessed   by   District  Water
Department in 1998.
At Chipogolo village, the villagers have   .: 3:
identified a natural spring about 7 km    2       ol i;       y :_
from the village. According to them, the     1n
source started producing water in 1998   CIwrch p                .o_
during the El-nino rains. Until to-date, the   whereby Kib villag&i
source is producing large quantity of   and C "aJmtu    - i,OO
water. They have proposed that the   the suppli--'it _I
source should be investigated, and that it  Chamttirnfip: peopl get'
may  be  appropriate  than  drilling  a   week.. 8k e; O f 
borehole.  The  villagers  are  also   simentSdurinngT8iflfl1s,
depending on rainwater harvesting from    plem. The,l,aers Pop
their-own "pipelin! '6hd h-
roof catchment as the significant number    trib e 3nO/  U
of houses in the village has corrugated    have -t.na-oretain   7
iron sheets.
56



The donors contribution in solving
water  supply  problem  is  also   BOX 4
significant in the project area (Box 3).
Again, some form of private sector
participation  in  water supply  is   we,t&ha~~vnmn~3%n
developing in the rural areas. For    %    j     b      r
example, at Berege  the  village                    
government has formed partnership           g           ee
with a businessman to finance O&M     %                            i
of mechanized borehole (Box 4). The   Govere s 
borehole was drilled by the GOT   r                                 om
through District Water Department. pol)~    n~iWt                  ey
The Water Aid also contributed by   Tw
supplying a pumping machine (HR -    il~ra fhlf 
engine). However, the machine was  ~'1   ''9  ef20                ek
stolen. The GOT supplied them with
another engine (Lister 61), which was     2 Q   ,
repaired jointly by Mr. Kennedy and  3     
the village government.             43                            j
4.   Willingness and Ability to
Pay for Water                 Teeoet~ttte~n                  ~i
The willingness and ability to pay is  9ss1
demonstrated  by  people  in  all   deductedrMto 4t0  X   E 
villages. For example, people from  tattert rftshd[~4 e
Chamtumile can afford to pay 10/=   contimr           ar14  'th W  i laz
per bucket. At Mazae-Nje  they   goh ent
depend on water from  Mpwapwa   puts ,e mon, in te bank,>
town, about 5-km. Water is brought to
the village by vendors who buy at a rate of 20/= per bucket from Mpwapwa and sell
at 200/= per bucket. The villagers have mobilized themselves to contribute 3,000/=
per year per household. Currently they have contributed a water fund amounting to
736,940/20.
At Chiseyu village people claimed that they can afford between 10-20/= per bucket.
They gave an example of Lukole village whereby individuals contribute 5,000/= to
get registration certificate and 200/= per month per household. The registered
households pay 20/= per bucket and those who are not registered pay 50/= per
bucket.
5.   Sanitation, Hygiene and Health
Majority of households has unlined pit latrines with mud walls and open roofs. The pit
latrines are not durable, and frequently collapse. The latrines also produce bed smell
due to lack of ventilation and always over flow, especially during rainfalls. There is no
VIP latrine in the village and the villagers are not aware of them.
Most households do not boil drinking water for various reasons. These include:
57



* Lack of time.
* Ignorance.
* Loss of quality.
* Water from taps is clean.
* Lack of awareness.
Hygiene and sanitation education is offered by visiting MCH staff once per month.
For example in Chamtumile village, hygiene education is offered by Health Officer
from Kibakwe. The Health Officers work in collaboration with the Water Committee.
The education is conducted once per week and they inspect pit latrine, wastewater
disposal chambers ("Karo") and solid waste disposal dumps. The health officers also
mobilize people to boil drinking water.
6.   Institutional Set up
The institutional set-up is almost uniform in all villages, especially at VG levels.
However, at sub-committee levels there are some differences depending on their
specific requirements (Box 4). At lkuyu village, the people were concerned with the
following problems regarding institutional capacity:
* The village government is weak and lacks leadership/financial and managerial
skills.
* Village water technicians (for 0 &M of schemes) are not paid regularly (e.g. since
February up to 11/2000 they have not been paid their allowance of 3,000/= per
month)
They have proposed that the current leadership should be removed from office. They
also wanted the village government leaders and their committees should be trained
to improve their efficiency.
At Mazae-Nje village, the people have also complained of lack of skills managerial,
administrative and financial management by the village government. They also said
the leaders are not motivated. The villagers proposed seminars as one way of
solving the problem.
The villagers complained that due to poor leadership the financial report is not
revealed to them. According to the villagers, there is co-operation between the
village government and the District Council.
They complained that the District council is biased towards certain villages, such as
Chinyanguko, Chinyika, Wiyenzere and Mima.
The villagers also complained about gender inequality in loan acquisition from the
District Fund. For example, according to one villager (male) he filled a form to
request for a loan. However, he was told that loan is not automatic for men. Instead,
58



they are supposed to write application letters through the District Cultural Officer and
then send a copy to the Ward and Division Secretaries. However, they could not get
any response from the responsible authority.
7.   Economic Groups
The people's effort to improve themselves economically is illustrated by formation of
their economic groups but those efforts are being undermined by lack of financial
capability, general managerial skills and lack of support from the District Council.
For example at Chiseyu village there is two women groups and one youth group.
The Women Group had a shop but now closed due to lack of running capital. The
money was misappropriated by one of the treasurer.
The Youth Group known as Vijana Jiungeni Group was established in 1998. Farming
is a major activity and the group has 2 acres of groundnut. In 1999, they harvested
10 bags and they bought one plough.
The group has 20,000/= at NMB Mpwapwa branch. The group is faced by problem of
lack of farm equipment. The have only one plough which is too old and need more
hoes and donkeys for cultivation, but they are faced with financial constraints.
The group requested a loan from the District Council but they were not successful
and since 1999 no reply from the District Council. The source of loan is from the
levies collected by the District Council, some of which is supposed to be allocated to
provide loans to economic groups. However, in most cases the groups do not get
support from their District Councils as illustrated by Mazae-Nje people. In Mazae-Nje
village there was an economic group dealing with foundry works. The group
requested a loan from the District Fund and they were told to wait but up to then
nothing  happened.  The  group  has  accused  the  District Council  of
discouraging/undermining their efforts.
According to lkuyu people, there was a Women Group known as TUJITEGEMEE
with five members that started in December 1997. They got loan of 100,000/= from
Dodoma Micro-Project Programme (DMPP). The group was dealing with making
local brew. The pay back was at an installment of 24,000/= after every 6 months. In
1998, they completed to pay back the loan.
However, after completing paying back the loan they had to close business because
they could not remain with money to continue business. They gave the following
reasons:
* the local brew had a low demand.
* rate of installment was to high and pay back period was too short.
* poor co-operation among the group members.
* lack of financial management and business operation skill
59



Generally, the villagers are willing to establish economic groups but lack of financial
support and managerial skills seem to be an obstacle. However, some efforts are
being done at regional level to assist economic groups in the rural areas as reported
by Berege people (Box 5).
8.   Donor Funded Project
The participation of donor agencies in rural development is very significant the rural
area. For example, at Chiseyu and Chamtumile villages there is a school
rehabilitation project supported by District Based Support Programme on Education
(DBSPE). The project was allocated 4,900,000/= for rehabilitation of classrooms.
The villagers contributed stones, sand and bricks. At Berege, the DBSPE has built
tow classrooms and one office for teachers at a cost of 5,295,000/=. Another donor
in the village is World Food Programme (WFP). According to Berege people the
WFP did a research and discovered that there is a nutritional problem among the
school pupils. Under this programme, pupils get porridge at 10:00 a.m. and in the
afternoon, they get "Ugali" and "Njegere" as lunch. The local people are supposed to
contribute meat and green vegetables. The interview with the local people has
revealed that the young baobab trees (seedlings) are used as vegetables. The
seedlings are usually common in the farms during wet seasons. The contribution of
donors is more pronounced in Chipogolo village (Box 6).
9.   Environmental Problems
The common environmental problems include:
* Dust produced by livestock as they move en mass.
* Destruction of planted trees by livestock.
* Tree cutting by villagers especially around water sources.
* Uncontrolled bush fires especially around water source (on mountains).
* Lack of pit latrines, hence people tend to help themselves in bush.
* Dumping of solid wastes around homesteads.
*  Poor disposal of wastewater around homesteads
* Water source pollution due human activities and domestic animals /livestock.
* Charcoal burning
However, in some villages like Ikuyu measures are being taken by planting trees.
According to them seedlings were brought to them by Regional Administrative
Officer. They also grow their own seedlings by broad casting seeds on cultivated
60



area and when the seedlings grow they transplant them. The villagers (most of them)
are willing to buy seedlings, especially fruit bearing tree seedlings.
At Chiseyu village, people complained of uncontrolled tree felling and bush fires, as
one of the major problems. The villagers do practice tree planting. According to the
villagers in the past, they were getting seedlings from the District, but now they do
not get seedlings. They prefer indigenous trees because they the trees are tolerant
to draught. They also prefer fruit trees such as guava, papaw and oranges. They
claimed that they could afford to buy one seedling at 50/=.
At Chipogolo village, the enforcement of by-laws has reduced the rate of tree felling
and bush fires. According to village by-laws any person found guilty is fined 3,000/=
or 3 years imprisonment.
At Berege village, the local people have been educated and mobilized on tree
planting, whereby each household plants at least 10 seedlings per year. However,
according to the villagers their efforts are being undermined by unavailability of
seedlings, damage by livestock, and termites.
The lack of environmental education and awareness has been mentioned by majority
of people in the project are as one of the main reasons for environmental
degradation.
10.  Source of Revenue
The source of revenue in Chamtumile village is mainly from tax charged on petty
trade such as selling local brew and selling meat from slaughtered livestock in the
village. Other source is the development levy, whereby the District Council returns
20% of the collected development levy to the village. The village government also
charges 10% of the price of each livestock sold.
Generally in all villages the revenue collection is organized as follows:
Tax from local brew,
-    Development levy - 20%.
-    Livestock - 15%
At lkuyu village the main source of revenue include:
-    Livestock (slaughtering a cow or goat): 700/=
-    Selling Local brews: 500/=
-    Rental charges from milling machine = 1,000/= per month.
-    Development levies 20% retained from District Council.
61



Livestock 10% retention from District Council.
At Berege village the revenue collection is as follows:
-    Selling local brew which is 1000/=.
-    Slaughtered arrival = 500/=.
-    Chicken = 50/=.
-    Groundnuts = 200/= per bag
The other source of revenue is through retention of 20% from Development Levy
collected by the District Council and 10% retention of livestock collected by the
council.
At Mtera village the revenue is collected as follows:
F ish sales - 1001= per table per day.
L ocal auctions - food 300/= fruits = 100/=.
The village government also collects contributions as follows:
*    *.Secondary school - Rudi = 500/=.
Primary School Rehabilitation = 500/=
Other source in retention from District Council on:
Development levy - 20%.
Livestock - 10%.
-    Uhuru Torch ("Mwenge") = 500/=.
However, generally in all villages people complained of too many contributions
compared to their income, especially when most of the households are faced with
hunger.
11.  Natural Disasters
The common natural disasters include floods and chronic food shortage due to
draught. For example, the lkuyu village encountered floods during the El-nino rains,
whereby several houses and other properties were destroyed.
The Chipogolo village is always faced by extreme food shortage due to drought and
insect pests. For example, according to them (villagers) in 1998, it rained but insect
pests locally known as "Nghombelele" destroyed crops, especially millet. They tried
62



to replant in another month but armyworm ("viwavi jeshi") emerged and destroyed
the crop. Thus for two consecutive seasons the village could not harvest anything.
i.e. 1997-1998 it was "Ng'ombelele" period and 1998-1999 "Viwavi jeshi" period.
CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS
(a)   Water Supply & Quality
The water quality in most of the boreholes have been noted to unsuitable for
domestic purpose and sometimes the water supply is not adequate. However, the
local people have taken initiative to identify new sources, especially the existing
natural springs. The installed gravity pipe systems are always damaged by storm
water or through agricultural activities along the pipeline routes.
It is recommended that:
* Site investigation should be carried in collaboration with local communities to look
for the possibility of utilizing the identified natural springs for installation of Gravity
pipes.
* The existing gravity pipe installations should be rehabilitated by reinforcement
with concrete materials.
, Cultivation along the pipeline routes should be restricted by declaring a right of
ways (RoW) and by-laws should be enacted to prevent trespassing into the
RoWs.
* Detailed water quality assessment should be carried out in the existing borehole
to determine their suitability for domestic purpose.
* The existing distribution networks should be rehabilitated.
* People should be discouraged from cutting trees around water sources and
catchment areas in general. This should be done through enforcement of by-laws
and all water sources; especially existing natural springs should be declared
village-controlled areas.
(b)   Sanitation Hygiene
Generally, the sanitation & hygiene condition in the villages is not good as most of
them still do not have durable pit latrines and do not boil drinking water at all. The
lack of financial capability and technical know how has been stated as a major
constraint. However, inability to boil drinking water can be said to be mainly due to
ignorance. To improve the sanitation & hygiene condition in the project area it is
recommended that:
* Local people should be trained on the construction of VIP latrines by using cheap
and locally available materials (e.g. cement + red soils or lime + red soils). The
63



primary school teachers could be used as resource persons to conduct training
since they already have knowledge about VIP.
* Hygiene education should be intensified to create awareness among the villagers
on the importance of boiling drinking water and other hygiene practice.
* The village government and their committees should be trained on sanitation,
hygiene and environmental issues, so that they can train the villagers.
* The adult education should be initiated so that hygiene, sanitation and
environmental issues are incorporated into the adult education curriculum. In
addition, financial & managerial skills can be incorporated into the adult
education classes.
(c)   Environmental degradation
The problem of environmental degradation is mainly caused by community activities.
This jeopardizes the sustainability of water resource in the project area. In order to
reverse the trend it is recommended that:
* The local community should be sensitized and made aware of the importance of
protecting water sources from pollution.
- Cutting trees around water sources should be discouraged though enforcement
of village by-laws. The area should be fenced off and declared a village
controlled area, and those trespassers should be prosecuted under the village
by-laws.
* Tree planting should be promoted, especially fruit bearing trees so that people
can get multiple benefit. The local people should be trained in the preparation of
tree nurseries.
* Alternative source of energy and construction materials such as cement plus red
soil should be promoted to minimize tree felling. The use of efficient charcoal
stove like that developed by Tatedo (local NGO known as Traditional Renewable
Energy Technology.
(d)  Institutional set-up
The institutional set-up at village level indicates poor representation of women in
various committees. Again, although there are some efforts being done by local
people to form economic groups there is no support from District level. In order to
promote capacity at village level it is recommended that:
* Women should be sensitized on the importance of participating in various
committees and they should be encouraged to form economic groups.
* The district council should provide soft loans to the existing economic groups and
formulate   training    programmes    on    financial    management.
64



Table 1: Human Po ulation and Livestock
No.    Village    Population   No. Of       No. pers./hh                 LIVESTOCK                    OTHER S
Households
Cattle       Goatsisheep  Donkeys  Pigs  Dogs  Poultry
1.     Chiseyu    1500        305           4.9          few           few           -                       Few
2.     Chamtumi  1676         700           2.4           1862         800           30        few   few    Few
le
3.     Mazae-    2600         430           6.0           150          78            20        20    50      Few
Nje
4.     Ikuyu      3465        660           5.3           2500         700           120       60    300    Few
5.     Berege    3887         996           3.9           *            *             *         *      *      *
6.     Chipogolo  5794        600           9.7           Significant    Significant    50     50    *       Few
7.     Mtera      6436        719           8.9           3680         2600          214        114  few    Few
8.     Igoji-ll    2969       980           3.8           1008         1400          70        -      50     Many
9      Chaludew  1440         *
a                                                                                    _
10     Sazima    2947         *
TOTAL             28,327      5390          Av. = 5.6                                                 =
* Data could not be easily obtained during the study.
Table 2: Education status
No.  Village            No.of Schools       Households       Enrolment         Enrolment ratio
1.   Chiseyu            1                   305              210               0.69
2.   Chamtumile         1                   700              343               0.49
3.   Mazae-Nje          1                   430              330               0.77
4.   Ikuyu              1                   660              300               0.45
5.   Berege             1                   996              380               0.38
6.   Chipogolo          1                   600              383               0.64
7.   Mtera              1                   719              640               0.89
8.   Igoji-ll           1                   980              301               0.31
TOTAL              8                   5390             2887              _
Average enrolnent ratio = 0.58
65



Table 3:    Health status
No.  Village       No. of Dispensary          Disease Prevalence
1.    Chiseyu      -                         Malara, diarrhea, ARI, TB eye
disease (trachoma), typhoid
and skin disease.
2.    Chamtumile   -                          Malaria, diarrhea TB trachoma,
typhoid, skin disease and
meningitis.
3.    Mazae-Nje    -                          Malaria, diarrhea, TB and
typhoid.
4.   lkuyu         -                          Malara, diarrhea, skin disease,
bilharzia and typhoid.
5.    Berege       1                          Malara, diarrhea, typhoid,
bilharzia and meningitis.
6.    Chipogolo    1                          Malaria, typhoid, diarrhea, skin
disease and bilharzia.
7.    Mtera        2                          Malaria, diarrhea, trachoma;
8.    Igoji-li     1
Table 4:    Gender representation in various committees
VILLAGE        COMMITTEES                   [GENDER REPRESENTATION
I MEN   WOMEN  TOTAL
CHISEYU        Finance, Economy & Planning   5      4         9
Defense & Security            7      1         8
l____________ Social Services                6       2         8
Water                         3      3         6
Environment                   8      -         8
l____________ Culture & Tradition            3       2        5
l _________   Land  use                      4       1         5
l ____________    Health                     3       4         7
MAZAE-NJE    Finance, Economy & Planning   3        2        | 5
l____________ Defense & Security             6       -        6
l _________   Land  use                      3       2         __5
Water                         7      5         12
Health                        3      3         6
IKUYU          Finance, Economy & Planning   6      2         8
Defense & Security            7      2         9
Social welfare                5      3         8
Water                         5      5         10
Environment                   9      -         9
l __________ _ |Health                       2       2        4
l ____________ |Livestock                    10      -         10
School                        7      5         12
BEREGE         Finance, Economy & Planning   4     |_ 1 __5_ _
_ _ _   Defense & Security                   7     -           7
____  Social welfare                         4       3          _7
Water                        __8 __ 8 |_16
66



Health                       16     1       | 17
Production (Nguvu kazi)      12     -       |_12
Environment                  12     - _ _    12
School                       8      3         11
CHIPOGOLO   Finance, Economy & Planning   3        5        8
Defense & Security           8      3         11
Construction                 4      4         8
Water                        4      4         8
Health                       11     4         15
Schooli                             5         14
Land use                     3      4        7
MTERA         Finance, Economy & Planning   4      3        7
Defense & Security           4      3        7
Social welfare               7      2         7
Water                       84      4         8
SHcehaool                    8      6         14
Construction                 4      4         8
IGOJI-II       Finance, Economy & Planning   3     2        5
Defense & Security           5                5
Land use                     6               6
Social welfare               4      2         6
Water                        8      8         16
Construction                 4      4         8
School                       7      2         9
Health                       21     1        22
67






APPENDIX IV:   WATER SUPPLY STATUS AND WATER FUND
VILLAGE      WATER SCHEME           STATUS  COVERAGE                      WATER FUND                OTHER SOUR(
(POPULATION)
From DWE        From field survey
1.   Chiseyu      None                   N         0%                250,000/=       704,289/80          3Nos. hand pumps & traditional
wells at Glue 6-km
Chinyasungwi stream, about 8
km.
2.   Sazima       None                   N         0%                751,000/=
3.  Igoji-ll      None                   N         0%                265,854/=       800,000/=           Natural spring at Nhungurumalo
hill, about 12 km from the village.
Traditional wells about 1 km
from village.
4.   Mazae-Nje   None                    N          0%               402,777         736,940/20          Natural spring about 5 km from
village.
5.   Berege       Mechanized bore hole    P         57%              400,000/=       700,000/=           Nearby seasonal stream and
pond
6.   Ikuyu        Piped Gravity          P          41%              1,200,000/=     1,200,000/=         Nearby stream for Gravity pipe
installation.
7.   Chamtumile  Piped Gravity           P          38%              120,000/=       200,000/=           Natural spring at Wotta village
about 18 km.
8.   Mtera        Mtera Dam              P         29%                               180,000/=           Pumped scheme borehole.
9.   Chaludewa   None                    N         0%                360,000/=       *
10.  Chipogolo    Mechanized bore hole    P        42%               438,000/=       400,000/=           Natural spring about 7 km from
village.
Nearby seasonal stream
Note: Information for Water Fund in the left column is according to DWE and on the right column is from field survey.
*  = Data could not be obtained during the study
69



APPENDIX V:    WATER QUALITY DATA
SAMPLE FROM BOREHOLE (BEREGE VILLAGE)
PARAMETER         TANZANIA           RESULTS
STANDARDS
pH                6.5-9.2            8.4
Turbidity (NTU)   30                 119
Settable matter                      <0.1 mI/i
EC ( LS/cm) at 25°C  2000            1764
Ca + mg/I as CaCO3 200               154
Total Hardness:   600                740
mg/l as CaCO3
Alkalinity: mg/l as    Not mentioned  258
CaCO3
Magnesium: Mg2+   100                86.3
(mg/l)
Potassium: K+                        5.0
Iron: Fe2+ (mg/l    1.0              Negligible
Manganese: Mn +   0.5                Negligible
(mg/l)
Permanganate      2.0                1.5
value as mg
KmnO4/1
Chloride: Clf (mg/)   800            248.5
Fluoride: F (mQ/1)   8.0             319.5
Sulphate: S04     600                36
Phosphate: P04 -   Not mentioned     Negligible
(mg/l)
Nitrates: N03     Not mentioned      4.0
Nitrite: NO2-     Not mentioned      Negligible
REMARKS:
According to laboratory analysis the water is very hard, turbid
with high alkalinity. The hardness is above Tanzania Standard of
600 mg/I. The fluoride content is also above standard.
Further investigation on the source is required.
70



APPENDIX VI:    LIST OF AUTHORITIES CONTACTED DURING THE STUDY
MPWAPWA DISTRICT           NAME                            DESIGNATION
Gideon Manambo                  DED-Mpwapwa
Mohamed Maghembe                DWE-Mpwapwa
Pasiens Kapinga                 WT-Mpwapwa
CHISEYU VILLAGE
Dickson Sogoli (40 yrs)         Village Chairman
Amon Madege (41 yrs)            Village Executive
Officer
Thomas Mgullo (42 yrs)          CCM branch
Secretary
Ms. Mensiana Sogoli (43 yrs)    Ten cell leader
Ms. Rosemary Banga (45 yrs)     Member -Village
government
Ibrahim Masinga (28 yrs)        Member -Village
agovernment
MAZAE-NJE VILLAGE          Ms. Veronica Mkatalo (38 yrs)   Village Executive
Officer
Yohana Mahoma (44 yrs)          CCM-branch
chairman
Yohana Matogwa (40 yrs)         Hamlet Chairman-
Mazae-Kati
Yohana Lechipya (38 yrs)        Member-Water
committee
Ahmed Mahogo Kamaliza (68 yrs) Village member
Ms. Hadija Athumani (55 yrs)
CHAMTUMILE VILLAGE
Albert Kinoga (75 yrs)          Village Chairman
Patric Kasanga (36 yrs)         Village Executive
Officer
Cyprian Daudi (30 yrs)          Assistant Village
Executive Officer
Elinei Udoba (44 yrs)           Village Chairman
Christopher Malogo (32 yrs)     Village Executive
Officer
IGOJI-Il VILLAGE
Amos Kalinga (32 yrs)           Village Chairman
Wilson Lukwawila (42 yrs)       Village executive
Officer
Agapati Miyovera (36 yrs)       Treasurer- Water
committee
Francis Kigaira (36 yrs)        Member-village
71



MPWAPWA DISTRICT          NAME                            DESIGNATION
Government
BEREGE VILLAGE
Aloyce Lichenele (41 yrs)      Village Chairman
Damas Mang'unda (36 yrs)       Village Executive
Officer
Noha Mjenda (40 yrs)           Chairman-Water
Committee
Kennedy Masinga (42 yrs)       Partner investor-
Water project
Sila Mchiwa (24 yrs)           Member-Village
government
MTERA VILLAGE
Benedict Luwi (46 yrs)         Village Chairman
Samwel Mtwanga (35 yrs)        Village Executive
Officer
CHIPOGOLO VILLAGE
= saya Msumari (70 yrs)        Village Chairman
Gideon Ngossi (25 yrs)         Village Executive
officer
Nelson Ndundumizi              Private operator-
Water supply
Mdeme Tabea (43 yrs)           Headmistress -
Chipogolo primary
School
Kisege Alex                    Teacher- Chipogolgo
Primary School
72



APPENDIX VIl: TERMS OF REFERENCE
73



APPENDIX VIII  LIST OF STUDY TEAM MEMBERS AND THEIR
RESPONSIBILITIES
NAMES       KEY                   POSITION        RESPONSIBILITIES
QUALIFICATIONS
1.  A.M.L. AKO   Environmental        EA Consultant   Conducting biophysical
Scientist                            surveys.
Team Leader &   Provide logistical support.
Co-ordinator    Design & Preparation of
Standard survey forms.
Preparation of consolidated
report.
2.  Ms. Frida B.  Social Scientist     Field assistant   Conduct Socio-economic
surveys
Preparation of
questionnaires
3.  Ngwisa       Environmental        Field assistant   Conduct biophysical surveys
Engineer
4.  Morgan       Environmental         Field assistant   Conduct biophysical surveys
Engineer
5.  Pasiens      Water Technician     Field assistant   Conduct bio-physical
Kapinga                                           surveys
74



APPENDIX IX:  CONSULTANT'S CURRICULUM VITAE
75



