E492
Vol. 2
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
MINISTRY OF WATER & LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT
Environmental Assessment (EA) Report
for
Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Project (RWSSP)
RUFIJI DISTRICT
March 2001
A.M.L. AKO
Senior Associate Consultant
(Environment & Natural Resource)
SERVICEPLAN LTD
P.O. Box 33165, Dar Es Salaam.
Tel: 72394
Fax:2700133
E-mail: Serviceplan @ ud. co.tz
FILE COPY



TABLE OF CONTENTS
LIST OF ABREVIATIONS & ACRONYMS ..............................       III
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY              ...............................V
1.0 INTRODUCTION                              .1
1.1 General .1
1.2 The Study Area .1
1.3     Purpose and Objectives of The Study           .2
1.4  Scope and Limitations                      .3
1.5   General Approach & Methodology                 .3
1.5.1 General Approach                        .3
1.5.2 Methodology                           .4
2.0     POLICY, LEGISLATION, INSTITUTIONAL & REGULATORY
FRAMEWORK                           .6
2.1 Policy                               .6
2.2  Legislation in Tanzania                     .9
2.3     International Treaties & Agreements .15
2.4     Standards Governing Water Quality .18
2.5     EA Requirements and GOT Capacity to handle EIA .21
2.6     Institutional Needs and Capability .25
3.0  PROJECT DESCRIPTION .28
4.0     BIOPHYSICAL AND SOCIO-ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT .32
4.1  BIOPHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT .32
4.2  SOCIO-ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT .36
5.0     POTENTIAL COMMUNITY SUB-PRPJECTS AND THEIR
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS .40
5.1     Potential Community Sub-Projects .40
5.2  Environmental Impacts .40
6.0   MITIGATION AND TRAINING PLAN .43



6.1     Mitigation Plan ..............                               43
6.2     Training Plan ..............                                 45
7.0     ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND CHECKLIST OF MONITORING
INDICATORS ..............                                   49
7.1     Monitoring Plan ..............  ERROR! BOOKMARK NOT DEFINED.
7.2     Monitoring Indicators .............. ERROR! BOOKMARK NOT DEFINED.
LIST OF TABLES
TABLE 1: EA CHECKLIST FOR COMMUNITY SUB-PROJECTS .......................... 42
TABLE 2: PROPOSED MITIGATION PLANS ......................................................... 43
TABLE 3: PROPOSED TRAINING PLAN .........................................................  48
TABLE 4: CHECKLIST OF MONITORING INDICATORS ...................................... 50
LIST OF MAPS
FIG 1: THE MAP OF RUFIJI DISTRICT -RURAL ROADS AND VILLAGE
CENTRES ..........................................................5
FIG. 2: MAP OF RUFIJI DISTRICT-AGRO-ECONOMIC ZONES .......................... 31
FIG. 3: THE MAP OF RUFIJI DISTRICT-LAND USE AND VEGETATION
COVER ........................................................  39
LIST OF APPENDICES
APPENDIX I: REFERENCES .52
APPENDIX 11:   SUMMARY OF VILLAGE BASELINE INFORMATION.              55
APPENDIX III:  WATER SUPPLY STATUS FOR TEN SELECTED VILLAGES
OF RUFIJI DISTRICT .68
APPENDIX IV:  WATER QUALITY DATA FOR SOME SELECTED VILLAGES OF
RUFIJI DISTRICT .69
APPENDIX V:   LIST OF AUTHORITIES CONTACTED DURING THE STUDY.. 74
APPENDIX VII: TERMS OF REFERENCE .75
APPENDIX VII:  THE NAMES OF CONSULTANT'S TEAM MEMBERS AND
THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES .77
APPENDIX VIII  THE CONSULTANT'S CURRICULUM VITAE .78
ii



LIST OF ABREVIATIONS & ACRONYMS
AfDB     =  African Development Bank
AIDS     =  Acquired Immunity Deficiency Syndrome
ASPS    =  Agricultural Sector Programme Support
BAT      =  Best Affordable Technology
BWB      =  Basin Water Board
CBOs    =  Community Based Organisations
CDOs    =  Community Development Officers
CITES    =  Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna &
Flora
CSPD    =  Child Survival Programme Development
CWB      =  Central Water Board
DAWASA =  Dar Es Salaam Water & Sewerage Authority
DAWASA =  Dar Es Salaam Water & Sewerage Authority
DCs      =  District Councils
DECs    =  District Environment Committees
DED      =  District Executive Director
DRDP    =  District Road Development Project
DWE      =  District Water Engineer
DWR      =  Division of Water Resource
DWSP    =  District Water & Sanitation Plan
DWSSSF =  District Water Supply & Sanitation Fund
DWST    =  District Water & Sanitation Team
EA    =     Environmental Assessment
EC       =  European Community
EEC      =  European Economic Commission
EIA   =     Environmental Impact Assessment
EIS   =     Environmental Impact Statement
EMP      =  Environmental Management Plan
ESAs    =  External Suppcrt Agencies
EU       =  European Union
FAO      =  Food & Agricultural Organisation
GOT      =  Government of Tanzania
HIV      =  Human Immune Virus
IDA      =  International Development Association
IIED     =  International Institute for Environment & Development
IRA      =  Institute of Resource Assessment
IUCN     =  International Union for Conservation of Nature
MCH      =  Mother & Child Health
MECCO  =  Mwananchi Engineering Construction Company
MEM      =  Ministry of Energy & Minerals
MOEC    =  Ministry of Education & Culture
MOH      =  Ministry of Health
MOW      =  Ministry of Water
MWLD    =  Ministry of Water & Livestock Development
MTNRE  =  Ministry of Tourism, Natural Resource & Environment
NCSSD   =  National Conservation Strategy for Sustainable Development
NEAP    =  National Environrnent Action Plan
NEMC    =  National Environrment Management Council
NEP      =  National Environmnent Policy
NGOs    =  Non-Governmental Organisations
NMB      =  National Micro-Finance Bank
NSPCA   =  Norwegian Stab Pollution Control Authority
iii



NUWA   =  National UrbanWater Authority
NUWA        National Urban Water Authority
NWP      =  National Water Policy
NWRC   =  National Water Resource Commission
NWRMP  =  National Water Resource Management Policy
O&M      =  Operation & Maintenance
PID      =  Project Information Document
PO       =  Partner Organisation
PWO      =  Public Water Office
RBWO   =  River Basin Water Office
REMP    =  Rufiji Environmental Management Plan
RWD      =  Rural Water Division
RWE      =  Regional Water Engineer
RWSS   =  Rural Water Supply & Sanitation
RWSSM  =  Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Management
RWSSP  =  Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Project
SCAPA   =  Soil Conservation & Agroforestry Programme
SECAP   =  Soil Erosion Control & Agroforestry Programme
STD      =  Sexually Transmitted Disease
TAC      =  Technical Advisory Committee
TAC      =  Technical Advisory Committee
TANAPA  =  Tanzania National Parks
TASAF   =  Tanzania Social Action Fund
TBS      =  Tanzania Bureau of Standards
ToR      =  Terms of Reference
UN       =  United Nations
UNCLOS =  United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea
UNEP    =  United Nations Environment Programme
UNESCO =  United Nations Education, Scientific & Cultural Organisabon
UNICEF  =  United Nations Children Fund
VC       =  Village Chairman
VEO      =  Village Executive Officer
VIP      =  Ventilated Improved Pit latrine
VWCs   =  Village Water Committees
VWSS    =  Village Water Supply &Sanitation
WATSAN =  Water & Sanitabon
WBO      =  Water Basin Office
WEO      =  Ward Executive Officer
WHO      =  World Health Organisation
WLU      =  Water Laboratory Unit
WRM      =  Water Resource Management
iv



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.0  Purpose and Scope of the Project
The intention of the project is to improve water supply, sanitation & hygiene
conditions for the rural communities of Rufiji district. The district is located
about 200 km from Dar Es Salaam City, on the southern part of Tanzania.
The project will involve rehabilitation and construction of new water supply
schemes in villages and a number of small towns in the district. However,
during the project implementation attention will be given to sanitation, hygiene
and environmental concerns. The project will also focus on community health,
especially promotion of AIDS/HIV prevention among the rural people through
awareness creation and campaigns.
2.0   Rationale and Methodology for Conducting Environmental Assessment
(a)   Rationale for Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
In this project, environmental assessment (EA) study has been found
necessary in order to incorporate environmental issues in the project design.
The aim is to sensitize and create awareness among the rural communities on
environmental matters related to water supply & sanitation schemes.
The EIA is considered necessary by the Government of Tanzania (GOT) and
the World Bank to facilitate decision-making process and to ensure that
development projects are environmentally sound and sustainable. The project
has been subjected to environmental screening and considered Category B
as per the World Bank's Operational Directives (OD) 4.00 and its Annexes.
Although the project is expected to have some positive environmental & social
impacts (benefits) some environmental analysis will be needed to identify any
possible negative impacts and propose appropriate mitigation measures.
In Tanzania EIA is required as a tool for environmental management,
especially at project specific levels. The objective for carrying out EIA is to
integrate environmental management and economic decisions at earliest
stages of project planning. The EIA also provides an opportunity for involving
the public, project proponents, private sector and government agencies in the
assessment and review of proposed project.
However, the project has not yet identified specific sites for implementation of
its components, and therefore cannot be strictly assessed under the existing
Tanzania EIA procedure. Instead, the assessment follows a more general
approach that incorporates an overall assessment of programme
interventions.
v



(b)   Methodology
The methodology involved both desk work and field surveys. During the
fieldwork, the Consultant carried out field observations, informal & formal
interviews, and discussions/meetings with community members including their
leaders, as well as, various authorities at district and national levels. This
provided opportunities to stimulate the concerns of various stakeholders, as
well as, solicit their opinion on the mitigation measures.
The Consultant also used specially designed biophysical and socio-economic
survey forms for baseline data collection. Again, whenever necessary water
samples were also collected for laboratory analysis.
3.0   MAIN FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
3.1   State of the Environment
3.1.1 Vegetation cover
There is no significant land degradation in most parts of the district due to low
population growth and few agricultural activities. However, bush fires, shifting
cultivation, tree felling, fuel wood collection and charcoal burning are common
practices associated with land degradation in the district. Although there is no
significant environmental conservation being undertaken in the district in
recent years, the Rufiji Environmental Management Project (REMP) has been
initiated by IUCN. The programme is mainly concerned with creating
environmental awareness and education among the local people. However,
the programme is focused mainly on mangrove conservation in the Rufiji
delta.
3.3.2 Air Quality
Frequent bush fires and fuel wood burning are the major source of air
pollution in the rural areas. These sources usually produce smoke containing
CO & CO2 However, construction activities is not expected to have significant
contribution to air pollution due to limited number of equipment and vehicles
used on-site.
3.3.3 Ground water potential
The ground water availability is controlled by hydro-geological characteristics
of the project area. The recharge rates are estimated between 4-5 [/s in
lowland and 1-4 [Is on upper areas during dry seasons. However, in the
southwestern part of the district the re-charge rate is relatively lower (0-1 [Is).
Ground water over-extraction can be one of the possible impact from the
project. However, the impact is not expected to occur due to small volume of
water extracted for domestic purpose. Moreover, the number of boreholes
vi



per unit area will be limited and ground water monitoring systems installed to
monitor seasonal fluctuations in water levels.
3.3.4 Water Quality
(a)   Ground water
The assessment of ground water quality indicates most of the boreholes and
shallow wells contain saline water. The salinity levels usually increase during
dry seasons. However, no bacteriological contamination has been found in
water from boreholes. Nevertheless, it will be important to conduct water
quality analysis for all boreholes and shallow wells to ensure that there are no
bacteriological contaminants.
Again, improper location of well sites in relation to pit latrines, burial sites
could be another potential source of ground water pollution. Site investigation
should be done to carefully locate well sites by maintaining a distance of not
less than 50 m from pit latrines or burial sites. The boundaries of well sites
should be demarcated and fenced off to avoid encroachment by human
settlements and other activities. The local communities should be actively
involved in well siting.
(b)   Surface water
The quality of surface waters is generally poor due to human activities and
trampling by wild animals. Although no laboratory analysis has been done for
surface waters bacteriological contamination cannot be over-ruled due to high
incidence of water borne diseases in the project area. However, the quality of
surface waters can be improved through filtration or sedimentation and
boiling.
3.3.5 Sanitation & Hygiene
The majority of households in the project area have unlined open roofed pit
latrines with walls made up of coconut leaves. The pit latrines are not durable
and pose a threat to human life as they usually collapse and overflow,
especially during rainfalls. Sometimes people use pit latrines as bathrooms.
However, other households do not have pit latrines at all and usually help
themselves in a nearby bush, hence increasing chances of disease
transmission.
Most of the households do not have wastewater disposal facilities and do not
boil drinking water or wash their hands. Lack of adequate water supply,
ignorance and taboo has been claimed to be one of the main reasons for not
boiling drinking water. Because of the prevailing conditions, water borne and
sanitary related diseases are very common in the project area.
vii



3.2  Policy, Legislation, Regulatory & Institutional Framework
3.2.1 Policy
The relevant policies that support EA requirements for Tanzania is the
National Environment Policy (NEP) and the National Water policy (NWP)
formulated in 1997 and 2000, respectively. Both policies recognize the
importance of incorporating environmental consideration in sectoral policies
and programs. They also state that EIA should be carried out for all major
development projects before their commencement and emphasize formulation
of guidelines & specific criteria for conducting EIA. However, findings indicate
that:
* There is no comprehensive legislation to support NEP implementation in
the country.
* The NWP does not clearly state environmental awareness & education in
its policy objective, especially in relation to rural water supply & sanitation.
• The NWP considers EIA as a mandatory to major water supply projects
but there are no sector guidelines for carrying out EIA for either urban or
rural water supply or river basin development.
* The policy states that environmental issues will be analyzed at planning
level but it does not give any implementation strategy to ensure that
environmental issues are incorporated in all stage of water resource
development.
In order to rectify the above shortcomings the following policy
recommendations are proposed:
* That environmental awareness & education should be stated clearly in
the NWP objectives. The policy objective should be to promote water
supply, sanitation, environmental awareness and hygiene education.
Another objective should be to promote environmental conservation and
encourage environmentally sound practices and technologies that
minimize vegetation destruction and water pollution.
* The EIA sectoral guidelines should be formulated. The MOWLD should
establish an Environmental Unit or section responsible for foreseeing
implementation of environmental management plans and maintain
linkage and co-ordination with the Office of the Vice President through
the Environment Division and National Environment Management
Council (NEMC).
* The legislation to support implementation of EIA requirements in the
water sector should be incorporated in the Water Utilization Act.
viii



3.2.2 Legislation
The relevant legislation matters of environmental concern are those related to
solid waste management, pollution control, environmental quality standards,
land use, health & safety, mining, protection of wildlife, sensitive areas, unique
flora & fauna, protection of natural & cultural resources.
However, no comprehensive legislation that enforces implementation of NEP
or that empowers NEMC to make EIA requirements legally binding. Again,
there is no effective co-ordination and collaboration among environmental and
water related sectors.
It is therefore recommended that:
*   There should be a legislation that empowers NEMC to make EIA
mandatory and legally binding.
*   There should be a clear statement of institutional responsibilities and
supporting legislation to facilitate implementation of NEP and reduce
duplication of efforts.
3.3   Standards governing Environmental Qualities
The important standards controlling environmental quality are the national and
those developed by the WHO (1993), the European Union (EU) and the
Norwegian Standards,
Findings indicate that sector ministries have legal authority to regulate
environmental quality standards (e.g. through pollution discharge permits).
However, there is a lack of clear system for co-ordination, implementation or
enforcement of legislation and regulation. This is reflected in the current levels
of environmental performance in the country. It is therefore recommended
that:
*   Environmental  regulatory  capacity  and  associated  institutional
development should be strengthened.
*   Regulation of pollution should be based on Polluter Pay Principle (PPP),
and nobody should have a right to pollute environment. Polluters should
give a proof on the effect of their activities to the environment, that is,
whether the activities do pollute the environment or not.
*   Enforcement of the requirements for discharge permits must be
strengthened. However, it should continue to be regulated through the
existing Water Utilization Acts.
*   Pollution control and prevention on a system of discharge permits that
focuses on general environmental protection act should be established.
That should cover discharges to water, air emissions, and noise and
waste (solid and liquid wastes) production.
ix



*   General effluent standards should not be stated in Water utilization Act,
but they should be stated individually in the discharge permits. It should
be specific to actual (industrial) sector of industry and environmental
status of the receiving waters. Guidelines for effluent standard should be
established, based on the review of existing standards by NEMC
*   Contents of an application for discharge permits should be specified in
the regulation and EIA requirements should be submitted to the relevant
authority.
*   Pollution control and mitigation measures should be specified by
industries in attending the expected effluent discharge in their
applications for discharges permits.
*   The principle of Best Available Technology (BAT) should be adopted and
the concept of Cleaner Production Technology. That should include
procedures for handling of applications, provisions for notification and
public participation, appeals and time frame.
*   Regulations should ensure that relevant authorities and institutions are
contacted.
*   There should be a provision for existing industries to apply for discharge
permits in a specified time frame.
*   Discharge permits should specify production capacity, raw materials
used, processing chemicals, products and solid waste disposal.
*   Discharge permits should be linked with license or other permits,
specifications of receiving water and municipal sewerage systems,
discharge limits (intermediate if necessary) and time limit. Other
inclusions should involve operating conditions, such as, the use of
Cleaner Production Technologies, leakage control, minimum water use,
etc. Monitoring and Reporting requirements and procedures should be
specified in the discharge permits, as well as, improvement program.
*   There should be a general condition and right for the relevant authority to
inspect the facilities and monitor the discharges. There should be a
system of permit fee and fees for inspection should be introduced.
3.4   E A Procedures and GOT Capacity to Handle EA requirements in the
Future.
The EIA requirements in Tanzania are not supported by comprehensive
legislation and no responsible authorities that have been explicitly designated
according to legislation. However, some sector ministries have included EIA
requirements in their sector laws and regulations. The process of establishing
comprehensive legislation and regulatory frameworks is still going on in the
country.
x



The EIA guidelines and procedures developed by NEMC are comprehensive
and cover all those important aspects of environment and it enforces EIA
through sector laws. However, there is no defined institutional responsibilities
for EIA and EIA regulatory framework exist only in few protected areas such
as the national parks, marine parks and game reserves.
The national capacity for management and implementation of environmental
assessment requirements is still limited. The EIA regulatory framework still
covers  only  certain  sectors.  Again,  the  capacity  to  implement
recommendations of mitigation and environmental management is also low
within those sectors.
The increasing influence of private sector on the national development and
future enactment of national level EIA legislation will significantly increase
demand for indigenous EIA expertise. It is therefore recommended that:
*   There should be an overall political decision so that general regulations
on EIA are stated in the Environmental or Planning legislation. The
process of enacting legislation should be speeded up to cope with the
rapid economic transformation towards privatization.
*   Provision for EIA should be stated in the Water Laws. The water policy
review and Water Utilization Act should include EIA requirements for
water resource projects.
*   The EIA should be mandatory of large-scale water projects and should
be based on investment costs and projects in sensitive areas.
*   The MWLD should develop its own guidelines on EIA to provide
guidance on more specific water related aspects.
*   There is a need to build capacity to undertake EIA within the national
institutions including the MWLD.
*   The capacity to collect baseline information should be strengthened
within the MWLD.
*   Existing sector expertise should be harnessed to improve their capacity
to undertake EIA.
3.5  Institutional Needs and Capability to implement EA Recommendations
Findings indicate that the existing institutional set-up at all levels could be
adequate for water resource and environmental management. However, lack
of adequate staff at district level to supervise private contractors and lack of
skills at village levels could be a constraint for effective water resource and
environmental management.
xi



The responsibility of the sector expertise at district level should be to
coordinated, provide advice on environmental policies, promote environmental
awareness,  generate  information,  assemble  information  related  to
environment at regional, district and village levels. However, the capacity of
these sectors expertise is weak due to lack of financial resources, especially
on matters related to environmental monitoring. Some monitoring stations
exist for meteorological data (temperatures, rainfalls, humidity & solar
radiation), but they are only limited to some few locations. Again, there is no
regular water quality monitoring due to lack of equipment and financial
resource.
To improve the institutional capability the following recommendations should
therefore be considered:
*   Village governments and their water or environment committees should
be strengthened through training in environmental, sanitation & hygiene
matters as well as financial and managerial or administrative skills.
Rural communities should be mobilized to contribute to water resource
and environmental management funds.
*   Co-operation, co-ordination and linkage between the District Water
Department (DWD) under the DED and the Regional Water Laboratory
(RWL) should be strengthened.
Both national and regional water laboratories should be financially
strengthened so that it can regularly conduct water quality monitoring,
and whenever possible they should become autonomous agencies
operating commercially.
*   Local communities should be encouraged to form economic groups and
the DCs should assist them by providing soft loans and arrange training
on small-scale business operations.
*   Environmental and climatic monitoring stations should be established in
the project villages. These stations should also be responsible for water
quality monitoring.
3.6   Environmental impacts and Mitigation Measures
3.6.1 Environmental Impacts
In general, the project is expected to have the following positive impacts:
*   Increased income (though temporarily) to food vendors, especially
women selling food to construction workforce.
*   Improved health condition to the rural community due to accessibility to
clean and safe water supply.
xii



*    Employment opportunity to the  local people, especially  youth  and
women, as they shall be engaged in the construction work.
*    Improved sanitary condition and hence decreased incidence of water
borne diseases.
*    Improved skills in 0  &  M  of water supply schemes and financial,
managerial and administrative skills to the community leaders due to
training package.
*    Improved environmental condition in the rural community due to created
awareness and training in environmental conservation activities,
including tree planting and application of environmentally sound
technologies.
Although the project is not expected to have appreciable negative impacts on
human population and general environment in the area, some specific
environmental issues need considerations. Relevant environmental impacts of
major concern to community sub-projects are summarized in the EA Checklist
(Table 1). Generally, those impacts are associated with:
* Water resource: quantity, quality and source protection.
* Construction activities.
* Wastewater and Solid waste disposal methods, including human wastes
(excreta).
TABLE 1: EA CHECKLIST FOR COMMUNITY SUB-PROJECTS
(a) Hand Pump Shallow Wells (HSW)
Ground water pollution due to improper location by being close to pit latrines, cemeteries
or burial grounds.
Clearing of vegetation due to creation Of access roads for transporting of drilling rigs and
other equipment to well sites, or during laying out water supply pipelines.
Accumulation of wastewater as a result of people washing or bathing close to the well
site or stand pipes, hence resulting into creation of potential
Breeding ground for diseases transmitting vectors such as mosquitoes.
Destruction of installations by floods and storm water, due to being close to stream/river
banks in flood prone areas.
(b) Ring Wells
Ground water pollution due to improper location by being close to pit latrines, cemeteries
or burial grounds.
Clearing of vegetation due to creation of access roads for transporting of drilling rigs and
other equipment to well sites, or during laying out water supply pipelines.
Accumulation of wastewater as a result of people washing or bathing close to the well
site or stand pipes, hence resulting into creation of potential
Breeding ground for diseases transmitting vectors such as mosquitoes.
xliii



Destruction of installations by floods and storm water, due to being close to stream/river
banks in flood prone areas.
Contamination of water due to poor handling or using dirty containers or due to surface
run-off entering a well during rainfalls.
(c) Pumped Scheme/Mechanized Deep Wells (PS/MDOW
Clearing of vegetation due to creation of access roads for transporting of drilling rigs and
other equipment to well sites, or during laying out water supply pipelines.
Accumulation of wastewater as a result of people washing or bathing close to the well
site or stand pipes, hence resulting into creation of potential breeding ground for
diseases transmitting vectors such as mosquitoes.
Contamination of water due to poor handling or using dirty containers or due to surface
run-off entering a well during rainfalls.
(d) Pumped Surface Water (PSVV)
Clearing of vegetation due to creation of access roads for transporting of drilling rigs and
other equipment to well sites, or during laying out water supply pipelines.
Accumu3ation of wastewater as a resust of people washing or bathing close to the wel
site or stand pipes, hence resulting into creation of potential breeding ground for
diseases transmitting vectors such as mosquitoes.
Spontaneous growth of algae/water weeds due to temperature and penetration of
sunlight in open wells, storage tanks or reservoirs.
Contamination of water due to poor handling or using dirty containers or due to surface
run-off entering a well during rainfalls.
Contamination due to human activities and wild animals upstream or around standing
water sources (e.g. lakes or ponds) or due to surface run-off entering during rainfalls.
3.6.2 Mitigation measures
This project does not require detailed environmental management plans because its
environmental issues are specific and can be easily incorporated in the project
design. Therefore, only mitigation plans will be proposed as shown in Table 2. The
proposed mitigation measures have taken into consideration those impacts resulting
from construction works or due to project and those from community activities.
xiv



TABLE 2: PROPOSED MITIGATION PLANS
POTENTIAL IMPACTS               MITIGATION MEASURES           ACTORS
A. Construction/Project impacts
Destruction of vegetation leading  Land restoration and vegetation  Contractor monitored  by
into soil erosion because of access  planting.                Supervising Engineer
roads creation during transportation
of drilling rigs and other equipment Minimize vegetation destruction
to  well sites  and/or  pipelines  by  restricting   construction
construction.                   activities on-site, using labour
intensive technology and avoid
unnecessary deviations during
construction of access roads or
laying out of water supply
pipelines
Dumping of drilling wastes and  Remove all spoils and other Contractor monitored by a
construction spoils.            solid wastes from the site and  Supervision Engineer.
dispose them properly.
Loss of crops and agricultural land  Consultation  with  community  District   Council/Regional
due to crossing pipelines route or representatives  when  siting  Water  Board      in
well siting.                    facilities.   Private   property  collaboration  with  Water
should be avoided at any cost Committees
but compensation should be
paid for unexpected loss or
damage/loss to property during
construction.
Water pollution from pit latrines due  Locate the wells at reasonable  Contractor monitored by a
to bore hole/shallow wells being too  distance from  seHtlement (not Supervision  Engineer  in
close to human seHtlements.     less than 50 m, but depending  collaboration with Village
on soil condition).          Water Committees.
Fence off the boreholes or Contractor monitored  by
shallow well sites to prevent Supervision  Engineer  in
encroachment by people due to  collaboration with Village
seHtlement expansion. The area  Water Committees
should be declared protected
under village by-laws
Occupational health & safety of Contractor    should      be  Contractor monitored by a
workers during construction      responsible for health & safety  Supervision Engineer.
of workers.
Only trained personnel should
be   allowed   to   operate
equipment on-site.
There  should  be  qualified
person to administer first aide
on-site.
Increased  incidence of STD  &  Awareness    &    education  Health   Committee   in
HIV/AIDS  due  to  construction  campaigns on STD and HIV to  Collaboration with Village
workforce in the village.        sensitize the local community.   Dispensary/MCH staff.
Limit the number of workforce  Contractor in collaboration
to technical &   skilled labor with  Village  government
only. The rest of workforce  and Supervision Engineer
should come from the rural
communities.
Locate the construction camp
far away from the village
seHtlement.
xv



POTENTIAL IMPACTS               MITIGATION MEASURES          ACTORS
B. Community impacts
Bush fires & tree felling by local Enforce by-laws to discourage  Village  government  and
community around water sources  bush  fires  around   water District councils
and upper catchment.            sources and catchment areas
and discourage the use of fires
for clearing agricultural lands
The   use   of  alternative  Water   Committees  in
construction   materials  and  collaboration  with  local
efficient charcoal stove (Jiko  NGOs, CBOs, etc.
Bora) should be promoted to
minimize tree felling and fuel
wood consumption.
Initiate    education  and
environmental awareness.
Accumulation of wastewater around  People should be discouraged  Village   government  in
well sites or standpipes due to  from washing or bathing close  collaboration with Village
people washing or bathing close to  to the well sites or stand pipes water Committees.
the water sources, hence  into  though enforcement of by-laws.
potential  breeding   sites  for The stand pipes or hand pump  Contractor  and   Design
mosquitoes.                     shallow   wells  should  be  Engineers in collaboration
constructed with concrete pads with    Village    Water
and drainage to carry spilled  Committees.
water into soakways. If possible
the water should be used for
gardening and trees should be
.planted around the area.
Spontaneous growth of algae and  Storage tanks and reservoirs  Contractor  and   Design
other waterweeds in open storage  should be well designed and  Engineers
tanks  or  reservoirs  due  to  covered to restrict growth of
temperature  and  exposure  to  algae and waterweeds.
sunlight.                       Storage  tanks  should  be  Water   Committees  in
subject to  periodic cleaning  collaboration with Trained
during operation.            personnel
Contamination of water in Ring  Ring Wells should be designed  Contractor  and   Design
Wells due to poor water handling  and constructed by raising them  Engineers.
and use of dirty containers people  at leastl m above the ground to
fetching  or by  surface  run-off prevent surface run-off from
entering the Well during rainfalls.    entering the Well.
Boiling of drinking water should  Village   Government  in
be promoted through hygiene  collaboration  with Village
education                    Water Committees.
People should be encouraged
to  use  only  appropriate
containers for taking water from
the Wells and should be kept
safely on-site.
Encroachment to well sites and  Fencing off and demarcating  Village   Government  in
open  water  sources  due  to  boundaries.                   collaboration  with  Water
expansion of human settlement and                            Committees.
farmlands                       The site should be declared
protected area under village by-
laws.
Pollution of open water sources due  Waters in storage tanks and  Trained   personnel
to human activities and trampling by  reservoirs should be treated by  appointed by village water
wild animals.                   chlorination                 committee.
xvi



POTENTIAL IMPACTS              MITIGATION MEASURES         ACTORS
Drinking  water  should  be  Household members
boiled.
People should be encouraged  Village  Governments  in
to boil drinking water and use  collaboration with Water or
pit latrines through education  Environmental Committees.
and enforcement of by-laws.
Damage to  pipelines by local The right of way (RoW) should  Village   government  in
people  during  cultivation  and  be declared for the pipeline collaboration with Water or
planting crops with deep rooting  routes and by-laws established  Environment Committees
systems along pipeline route.  to  prevent  people  from
cultivation along the RoW.
Pipelines should be submerged  Contractor.
below  the  ground  at an
appropriate depth.
3.7   Training Plan
The training plan focuses on the relationship between water resource,
environment, sanitation & hygiene. It also involves exposure to policies,
legislation & regulations, as well as financial and managerial skills. The
detailed training plan is shown in Table 3.
3.8   Monitoring Plan
The monitoring exercise will involve both contractor on-site and the local
communities activities. During construction, the contractor should consider the
following issues:
-  Natural landscape: The natural landscape should be preserved as much
as possible by limiting the operation on-site. Unless otherwise required for
installation of campsite or dumps, all trees, shrubs should be protected
from unnecessary damage.
*  Restoration of landscape: This should be done by replanting or reseeding
to prevent further damage due to potential soil erosion. Again, restoration
should be done according to ecological design to provide opportunity for
lost natural habitat to be recovered.
.  Contractor's facilities on-site: The sitting/location of contractor's facilities
like labor camp and warehouse should be planned. This will help to decide
a scenic quality of an area after construction is complete. The facilities
should be located in such a way that the natural environment is
maintained.
. After use possibility: The labor camps and other buildings should be
considered for future use by the local community whenever possible. For
xvii



example, the village water committees or village government can utilize a
building as an office, if it can be foreseen before. However, if after use is
not possible the facilities should be demolished and the area be restored
to its quasi-original state/condition.
*  Location of labor campsite: The labor camp should be located far from
village settlement and fenced off from the surrounding areas. In those
areas with frequent bush fires, a campsite should be surrounded by a
buffer zone to avoid damage to the camp due to accidental fires.
. Accidental spillage & leakage: The contractor should avoid or minimize
spillage of contaminants, debris or other pollutants, especially into natural
streams/rivers or ground water sources. This also includes sanitary
wastes, tailings, petroleum products, drilling chemicals, biocides, mineral
salts, etc.
.  Waste Disposal: The contractor should make sure waste materials
disposed by burial do not contaminate ground water supplies.
-  Community participation: The local community, especially the water
committees should participate in monitoring and that should be specified in
contract documents.
The important issues to be considered during monitoring of various community
sub-projects are summarized in Table 4.
xviii



TABLE 3: PROPOSED TRAINING PLAN
STAGES       TARGET GROUP            IMPLEMENTERS           CONTENTS                       TIMING          DURATION    OUTPUT
STAGE I      Sector expertise at     Qualified local NGOs,   Environmental monitoring and  12      months
District level (e.g. District  Private Consultants &    sanitary survey techniques.  before  project
Natural Resource        related institutions.                                 starts.
Officers)
Existing policies, legislation
regulations and by-laws.
Environmental degradation and
water resources availability
Water pollution on human health:
prevalence of water bome &
sanitary diseases.
Environmental     conservation
techniques.
Treatment of drinking water.
Solid   waste   &   wastewater
management methods.
STAGE II    Representatives from:    Sector expertise       As above
- Youths & Women
Groups
- Village committee.
- Village Members
Representatives from:   Local NGO dealing with  Construction of VIP latrines and    6 months  3 weeks       Trained
- Youths & Women        promotion of VI P      wastewater disposal chambers    before project               representatives
Groups                 latrines.               using cheap and locally available
- Village committee.                           materials.
- Village Members
- Local artisans        Financial and Business  Financial and Managerial or
Institutions          Administrative skills.
STAGE IlIl    Rural communities in   Sector expertise in    Trained groups from rural      During project   Continuous    Increased
general.                collaboration with     community involved in awareness  implementation              awareness on
Water & Environment   & education campaigns on        after                         environment,
Committees.           environment, sanitation &       commissioning                 sanitation &
hygiene promotion.                                           hygiene
xix__________   matters.
xix



TABLE 4: CHECKLIST OF MONITORING INDICATORS
MONITORING INDICATORS              POTENTIAL    COMMUNITY    SUB-
PROJECTS
HPSW    RW      PS/MDW   PSW
Distance of well site from sanitary
facilities and other contaminants such 4    4      4
as pit latrines, burial sites, etc.
The condition of the pump base,
whether loose or not               4
Presence of human wastes and other
contaminants around well sites.    4        4      4
Presence of standing wastewater
around/close to well site or standpipes 4   4      4          4
that may create breeding site for
mosquitoes.
Presence of drainage channels that
leads run-off to the well site, hence 4     4      4
leading into possible ground water
contaminabon.
On-going human activities within the
well site/stand pipes (e.g. washing 4       4      4          4
clothes or bathing).
Presence of bad/rotting smell or odor in
water  from    well,      storage                  4          4
tanks/reservoirs
Method of drawing water from wells and
type containers being used by local         4
people to draw water from a well.
Encroachment of human settlement to
well sites (estimate distance).    4        4       4
Changes in ground water levels &
quality (estimate re-charge rates &  4      4      4
salinity).
Incidence of bush fires and other
human activities on upper catchment                           4
and around water sources that may
lead into vegetation destruction
Prevalence of water borne and sanitary
related diseases (human health) among
the local community, especially children
less than 5 years.
xx



1.0  INTRODUCTION
1.1   General
The environmental assessment (EA) study was assigned to M/S Ako
(hereinafter called the Consultant) by the Ministry of Water & Livestock
Development (MWLD)-hereinafter called the Client on 8th October 2000. The
intention of the study was to identify potentially negative environmental
impacts associated with Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Project and
thereafter develop an EA checklist and checklist of monitoring indicators for
various community sub-projects. The details on the study requirements can
be found in the Terms of Reference (ToR) attached to this report (Appendix
VI).
In this report, some important findings are presented from the study
conducted in Rufiji district from 24th to 29th October 2000. The report is
divided into seven sections, of which section one is Introduction, followed by
section two covering Policy, Legal, Institutional & Regulatory framework.
Section three deals with Project Description. Biophysical & socio-economic
baseline data are presented in section four. That is followed by section five
that outlines the Potential Community Sub-projects and significant
Environmental Impacts. The Mitigation Management and Training Plan are
dealt with in section six, followed by section seven containing Environmental
Monitoring Plan.
The report also contains some appendices, whereby Appendix I contains
references, followed by summary of Village Baseline Information in Appendix
11. Appendix III shows the Water Supply Status in ten selected villages of Rufiji
district. The Water Quality Data from some selected water sources are
presented in Appendix IV. Appendix V the List of Authorities contacted during
the study; followed by the ToR in Appendix VI. Finally, the names of study
team members and the Consultant's curriculum vitae are presented in
Appendix VI I and VI II, respectively.
1.2  The Study Area
The study area covers the ten selected villages of Rufiji district (Fig. 1).
These include Jaribu Mapakani, Bumba, Mtawanya, Kimbuga, Ruwe,
Kilimani, Mloka, Utunge, Nyamwage and Chumbi villages.
The Rufiji district forms one of the three districts in the Coast Region, about
200-km from the Dar Es Salaam city in the southern part of Tanzania. The
district lies between 60-8°S and 37.5°- 40°E, at an altitude of about 0-250
meters above sea level (m.a.s.l.). The District derives its name from the
existing Rufiji River that dissects the district into two parts as it flows from the
Stiegler's gorge on the western side into the Indian Ocean. The river drains
about 20% of the district with average annual flow rate estimated at 90 cubic
meters per second, and carrying about 17 million tones of silt into the flood
plain and delta every year.
I



The administrative headquarter of the district is Utete located on the southern
side of the riverbank. The district consists of 91 villages, 6 Divisions and 19
Wards. According to 1998 population estimates, the Rufiji district has about
176,000 people (MMK Project Service Ltd., 1999) and covers a total area of
about 13,339 square kilometers (kM2). Basing on the 1988 census the
population can be projected about 180,837 people.
The district can be divided into three ecological zones and five major agro-
economic zones (Fig. 2). The three ecological zones include:
* The Flood plain which stretches about 130 km from west to east and
between 7-35 km wide. The flood plain is comprised of 13 permanent
lakes with a variety of natural vegetation, including grassland, riparian
forests, swampy forests, woodlands and intermediate vegetation
communities. The flood plain is formed by the Rufiji River that begins from
Siegler's gorge, at an altitude of about 70 m.a.s.l.
* The Delta zone contains 53,000 hectares (ha) of mangrove forest, which
forms a very important ecosystem that supports inter-tidal fisheries and
provides a breeding ground for about 80% of the Tanzania prawns. The
mangroves are also important for production of mangrove poles and
controlling soil erosion.
The delta zone and flood plain are the important habitat for numerous
endemic species of flora and fauna with significant biodiversity of local and
regional importance.
* The Plateau or Upland zone is comprised of dry coastal forest on the hilly
topography (e.g. Kichi hills). The zone also contains biodiversity of local,
regional and international importance. The zone is located between the
Rufiji flood plain and Kisarawe district on the northern side and between
the flood plain and Kilwa/Liwale districts on the south. The area, popularly
know as the Matumbi mountains, is suitable for cultivation of cashew nuts,
coconuts, cassava, maize and millet, and a variety fruits, such as oranges,
papaw and pineapples.
1.3   Purpose and Objectives of the Study
The purpose of this study was to conduct Environmental Assessment (EA) for
Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Project (RWSSP) Project in ten selected
villages of Rufiji District. The intention was to identify relevant environmental
issues related to design, location, construction as well as, operation &
maintenance (O & M) of RWSS schemes. In the long term, study is aimed
towards developing an EA and Monitoring checklist for different community
sub-projects. Specifically, the study focused on various practices and criteria
for developing RWSS schemes. These include technology choice,
construction techniques, wastewater disposal methods and appropriate on-
site location. Therefore, the objective of the study was to identify potentially
2



negative environmental impacts resulting from various community sub-
projects and thereafter propose appropriate mitigation measures.
1.4   Scope and Limitations
In this study the Consultant's task was to:
* Develop biophysical and socio-economic baseline data.
* Describe the pertinent policies, legislation, regulations and standards
governing environmental quality at national and international levels.
* Assess the present handling of EA requirements and procedures, as well
as the GOT capacity to handle them in future.
* Identify potential environmental impacts and community sub-projects.
* Propose environmental mitigation plan to minimize those negative impacts
and thereafter prepare an EA checklist for different community sub-
projects.
* Develop an environmental monitoring plan and then prepare a checklist of
monitoring indicators.
* Identify institutional needs to implement EA recommendations at national,
regional, district and community (village) levels.
The study was supposed to cover all ten selected villages in the Rufiji district.
However, due to limited time the study covered only seven villages. These
include Utunge, Kimbuga, Bumba, Kilimani, Chumbi, Ruwe and Jaribu
Mpakani.
1.5   General Approach & Methodology
1.5.1 General Approach
In undertaking this study the Consultant's approach was:
(i) To define and characterize the study areas by using 1:50000 scale
topographic map.
(ii) To divide the study area into distinct agro-economic zones
(iii) To identify the existing beneficiary communities in each agro-economic
zone.
3



(iv) To select representative sample communities according to spatial
distribution within those agro-economic zones.
The agro-economic zones were used as criteria for selecting sample villages,
because they reflect a local climate, and thus land use pattern and natural
resource potential. This also includes water resource availability.
1.5.2 Methodology
After selecting the representative communities, the Consultant divided the
study into two major components i.e. deskwork and field survey.
(a) Desk work
The deskwork involved preparation of survey forms and questionnaires,
acquisition and reading topographic maps, review of various documents,
reports, etc.
(b) Field surveys
The fieldwork involved ocular (visual) observation, informal &   informal
interviews, as well as focus group discussion and/or carrying out meetings
with local communities and physical observation. The Consultant also
used specially designed biophysical and socio-economic survey forms for
baseline data collection. Whenever necessary water samples were also
collected for laboratory analysis. The Consultant also carried out
discussions with responsible authorities at different levels.
4



FIG 1:  THE MAP OF RUFIJI DISTRICT-RURAL ROADS AND
VILLAGE CENTRES
5



2.0  POLICY, LEGISLATION, REGULATORY & INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
2.1  Policy
Since the 1992 Rio conventions (i.e. Convention on Biological Diversity 1992
and Framework Convention for Climate Change 1992), Government of
Tanzania (GOT) has been showing great concern to environmental issues.
This is reflected in the policy documents National Environment Policy (NEP),
National Environment Action Plan (NEAP) and National Conservation
Strategy for Sustainable Development (NCSSD). Again, the Draft
Environment Protection Bill (1994) and the Bill to enhance the powers and
responsibilities of National Environment Management Council (NEMC) have
already been prepared. All these are indicators of the Government's
commitment towards environmental protection and social sustainability of
national development.
The overall objective of NEP (1997) is to raise public awareness and
understanding of essential linkages, between environment and development.
The other object is to promote individual and community participation in
environmental actions. This policy objective is in line with the National Water
Policy (NWP) of 2000 approach to rural water supply & sanitation, whereby
community participation and other stakeholders in water resource
management is emphasized.
The NEP policy addresses environmental issues from both natural and social
context, by adopting the principle of sustainable development. According to
the policy, exploitation/utilization of natural resource, investment and
technology development has to be carried out in a sustainable manner without
compromising the environment for the benefit of the current generation and of
the future.
The NEP has developed proposals for enactment of framework legislation to
address environmental issues in line with international agreements,
commitment and national concerns. Main objectives of the framework are:
* To take into account various government agencies involved in regulating
specific sectors of economy.
* To integrate the activities of the government agencies.
* To promote co-ordination and co-operation among various government
agencies and define environmental management tools of general scope.
The framework intends to facilitate consistent policy and enforcement to
ensure that:
* EIA is carried out for any major development project before its
commencement.
6



* Environmental monitoring is done in compliance with the set standards.
* Environmental auditing is undertaken to evaluate the efficiency of
environmental organization, including its management and equipment
being used.
The Ministry of Water & Livestock Development (MWLD) has also considered
environmental issues in its policy. The National Water Policy (NWP) of 1991
has been revised to form NWP of 2000. The policy identifies EIA as one of the
important legal instrument for policy implementation. The policy issues of
concern in the environment sector are environmental water needs, that is,
water needed to protect the environment. The policy concern is identification
of major aquatic ecosystems, their ecology and hydrology. That also includes
meeting their in-stream flow requirements, quality level standards and
establishment as well as, enforcement of effective regulatory mechanisms for
environmental flow requirement (e.g. Kihansi Hydropower Project).
The new policy takes into account cross-sector issues related to water and is
based on global principles. It also takes into consideration the National
Environmental Policy (NEP) and other sector policy issues. Basing on its
global principles the NWP recognizes the importance and roles of all other
sectors in water resource management.
The NWP specifies issues related to Rural Water Supply & Sanitation. The
policy gives emphasis on improving the health and socio-economic well being
of rural communities through improved access to adequate and sustainable
safe water supply and sanitation. The policy recognizes the relationship
between lack of safe water and poor hygiene & sanitation as the major cause
of sickness and death, and of course poverty. It recognizes rural women and
children as a vulnerable group living in poor conditions, subjected to diseases
and foregone opportunities. The policy strategy in this case is to
emphasize/promote health & hygiene education to rural people, rather than
providing water supply alone.
Thus, integration of water supply, sanitation and hygiene education should be
geared towards maximizing health impact to the rural community, especially
women & children. The policy strategy here is to promote collaboration with
the Ministry of Education & Culture (MOEC) and the Ministry of Health (MOH).
Again, demand responsive approach and community participation (NGO's,
CBOs, Private sector, etc) in the planning financing, design, operation &
maintenance (O & M) rural water supply & sanitation systems, is another
element being addressed. The policy recognizes the need for water to
livestock and the need to include livestock in the designs of rural community
water supply schemes. The principle statement is that, provision of adequate
water to livestock though construction of dams and integrating livestock
requirement in the design of rural water supplies.
7



FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Findings
One of the important strategies in the NWP implementation is to promote
water supply, sanitation and hygiene education among the rural community.
However, the policy does not specify in its objectives the issues of
environmental awareness and education. For example, environmental
degradation (vegetation destruction and water pollution) of water sources is
one of the major problems that could threaten the sustainability of rural water
supply schemes. It is therefore important that environmental awareness and
education should be given weight in the policy. That should include promoting
technologies that minimize environmental degradation. For example,
promoting the use of efficient charcoal stove (Jiko Bora) that consumes little
charcoal and conserves heat (e.g. Jiko bora). Again, use of red soil and
cement bricks for house construction in rural areas can be promoted to
minimize vegetation destruction or the use rice husks for burning bricks
instead of fuel wood can be promoted. Therefore, one of the policy objectives
in this case should be to promote environmental conservation and encourage
environmentally sound practices and/or technologies to protect water sources.
Another policy strategy is to make EA mandatory prior to execution of all
major water related projects. However, there are no guidelines developed by
MWLD for carrying out EA in water supply development projects. For example
TANAPA has developed its own EA guidelines for development projects being
carried out in the National Parks or Game Reserves. It could be important if
the MOW could develop its own EA guidelines and environmental
management plan (EMP). From those guidelines, it shall be possible to
develop standard EIA reports, techniques and reviews that are specific to the
water sectors and within the local context. The output in this case, should be
EA guidelines, standard reports and reviews process, that address the
requirement of the sector and put local issues into consideration.
The policy identifies conflict of interest among water users due to water
resource planning approach that is sector oriented and regionally based or
project specific. To alleviate this problem the policy will integrate national,
basin, sub-basin and community level plans. It states that inter-sectoral
planning at basin level will be formulated and participatory approach at all
levels will be promoted. According to the policy, environmental issues will be
analyzed at planning level. However, the policy does not give any
implementation strategy to ensure that environmental issues are incorporated
in all stages of water resource development. There should be an institutional
reform in the MOW by establishing an environmental section. The
responsibility of this section shall be to foresee implementation of
environmental management plans and to link and co-ordinate with the
Environment Division and NEMC.
The question of water source protection and cleaning due to pollution has
been noted in the policy involves financing mechanism. However, up to now
8



source of funding largely depends on government budget and thus not
adequate. There is a need to look for other sources to complement the
government budget. One of the sources may involve introduction of water
users charges and polluter pays principle. Other mechanism is to encourage
local communities to actively participate in water sources protection. The
established community water funds should be used, not only, in 0 & M water
supply schemes but also water sources protection.
Recommendations
* Environmental awareness and education should be given weight in the
NWP. That should include promoting technologies that minimize
environmental degradation.
* It could be important if the MOW could develop its own EA guidelines and
environmental management plan (EMP).
* There should be an institutional reform in the MOW by establishing an
environmental section. The responsibility of this section shall be to foresee
implementation of environmental management plans and to link and co-
ordinate with the Environment Division and NEMC.
• The financing of water protection from pollution should involve introduction
of water users charges and polluter pays principle (PPP).  Other
mechanism should be to encourage local communities to actively
participate in water sources protection. The established community water
funds should be used, not only, in 0 & M water supply schemes but also
water sources protection.
* The legislation to support implementation of EIA requirements in the water
sector should be incorporated in the Water Utilization Act.
2.2     Legislation in Tanzania
The relevant legislative matters of environmental concern relate to solid waste
management, pollution Control, Environmental Quality Standards, Land use,
Health & Safety, Protection of Wildlife, Sensitive areas, Unique flora & Fauna,
Protection of Natural & Cultural Resource.
(i)   Protection of Sensitive areas & Unique Flora & Fauna
The relevant legislation in Tanzania related to preservation and/or protection
of sensitive areas and unique flora & fauna are:
* Fauna Conservation Ordinance (an Ordinance is law promulgated
before in dependence) Cap. 302 as amended by Acts No. 15 and 17 of
1963 and Act No. 7 of 1965.
9



* National Parks Ordinance (Amendment) Act No. 44 of 1963.
* Forest Ordinance of 1957 Cap. 389, Forests Ordinance (Amendment)
Act No. 43 of 1963.
*  Land Ordinance Cap. 113.
* Public Land (Preserved areas) Ordinance (Amendment) Act. No. 28 of
1965.
* National Land Policy (1997).
* Industrial Licensing and Registration Act of 1967 and with
Amendments of 1982.
* Water Utilization (Control and Regulation) Act. Of 1974 as amended by
the Water Utilization (control and Regulation Amendment) Act of 1981.
* Fisheries Act. No. 6 of 1970.
* Wildlife Conservation Act No. 21 of 1974.
• National Environment Management Act No. 19 of 1983.
(iH) Solid Waste Management
The principle legislation that governs waste management is found in the Local
Government Acts, National land use commission Act and Town &   Country
Planning Ordinance. However, no specific legislation that addresses solid
waste management in Tanzania. The landaus planning act gives local
authorities the power to designate land in urban areas for specific uses, like
solid waste disposal sites. Besides that, the common law of nuisance can be
applied to waste disposal sites (e.g. Case of Belegere vs Dar Es Salaam City
Council)'
The relevant policy is the NEP whose primary objective is to promote
environmentally sound technologies, that are less polluting, recycle more of
their wastes and handle wastes in a more acceptable manner than the
technologies they replace. Within the NEP, Health sector refers to provision of
waste disposal services. The industry sector refers to prevention, reduction,
control and limitation of damage and minimization of risk from general
management, transportation, handling and disposal of hazardous wastes.
(iii) Air Pollution
There is neither legislation nor definitions of standards or objectives pertaining
to air pollution. So far the only item of legislation is that which appears in the
Penal Code and Merchant Shipping Act.
In 1985 the Residents of Kunduchi Mtongani, Dar Es Salaam successfully moved the high court to close a
dumpsite that was opened by the City Council in the residential area due to air pollution problem.
10



The Penal Code stipulates that "voluntarily vitiating the atmosphere so as to
make it noxious to the health of persons in the vicinity" is a misdemeanor. The
local Government (District and Urban Authority Acts, 1982) contains
provisions to protect human health and regulates pollution problems. The
Merchant Shipping Act, 1967 prohibits emissions of dark smoke from ships for
more than five minutes in any hour, within a certain distance from the shore.
However, common law principles of nuisance can also be applied in matters
of air pollution as in the case of solid waste management (Belegre Vs City
Council).
The NEP seeks to reduce and control impacts from industrial emissions
through location, control of emission and use of environmentally friendly
technologies (Clean Technology). The policy also seeks to establish
permissible noise levels in cases of noise-prone industries and construction
sites. However, there are no established air and noise quality standards,
although draft proposals have been prepared by NEMC (1997) for ambient air
and emission sources.
(iv) Mining
So far, no legislation in Tanzania that specifically deals with control of land
pollution. However, this issue can be related to land use policy and
regulations. The NEMC Act has some provisions to initiate steps for the
protection of environment by preventing, controlling, abating or mitigating
pollution to land, water air, etc.
The NEP addresses the issues of land pollution, especially in regards to
mining sector. It states that measures will be taken to minimize pollution from
the mining sector. These include reclamation and restoration of land after use,
mining discharges to ground and surface water. According to the policy land,
ground & surface water pollution shall be controlled and preventive as well as,
clean up measures for accidents shall be formulated and implemented.
Similar policies are also applicable to other industrial sector.
(v) Land use
The relevant legislation controlling land use and its management include:
* National Land Policy (1997)
* Land Ordinance Cap. 113
* Public Land (Preserved areas) Ordinance (Amendment) Act. No. 28 of
1965.
* Town and Country Planning Ordinance were established to regulate land
use planning schemes for designated areas.
11



*  Natural Resource  Ordinance  to  create  Natural resource  Board,
responsible for supervising natural resource.
* The National Land Use planning Commission to advise the government on
land conservation and development.
* The Local (District and Urban) Authorities Acts (1982) to empower Local
Authorities it to make by-laws on soil protection, agriculture, water supplies
and other natural resource.
Other legislation relevant to land use includes, Range Land Development and
Management Ordinance, Land Ordinance (1961) and Land Acquisition Act
(1967). Recently, the Land Act (1999) has been enacted to regulate land
allocation, including a village land.
The National Land Policy (1997) addresses issues of protection of sensitive
areas. These include water catchment areas, small islands, border areas,
beaches, mountains, forests, national parks, rivers, river basins and banks,
seasonal migration routes of wildlife, national heritage and areas of
biodiversity. According to policy, these areas or parts of them shall not be
allocated to individuals.
The policy also deals with protection of hazard lands, such as, river valleys,
areas of steep slopes, mangrove swamps, marshlands. The policy recognizes
that apart from posing danger to life and property, developments on those
areas contribute to land degradation, pollution and environmental degradation
in general.
(iii) Water
The relevant legislation that covers water pollution and supply include the
Water Works Ordinance (Cap. 281), the Urban Water Supply Act, 7/81 and
Water Utilization and Control Act, 42/74. The Water Works Ordinance
specifies that pollution of water supplies constitutes a punishable offence. The
Urban Water Supply Act gives the National Urban Water Authority (NUWA,
now DAWASA) power regarding surface and ground water pollution. It
specifies that pollution of surface or ground water is a punishable offence. The
Water Utilization and Control Act establish temporary standards for receiving
waters and effluent discharge standards. The Public Health Sewerage and
Drainage Ordinance (Cap. 335) prohibits the discharge of certain substances
into sewers. Usually violation of this ordinance is an offence and penalties
may be imposed.
The Government of Tanzania has also created the following bodies with
specific tasks to regulate water pollution. These include:
* National Urban Water Authority (NUWA now DAWASA)
12



* Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS).
* National Environment Management Council (NEMC).
Tanzania Bureau of Standards has also issued effluent standards for a limited
number of specific industries in the country. Again, a Sewerage and
Sanitation Policy has been prepared. The National Water Policy of 1993 has
been revised to form a new National Water Policy (2000), covering Urban
Water Supply & Sanitation and Rural Water Supply & Sanitation.
The existing legislation on water resource management are:
* The Laws of Tanganyika 1947 & 1950 Cap. 281.
* Water Works Ordinance (Subsidiary Legislation) Cap. 281.
*  Public Health (Sewerage & Sanitation) Cap. 336.
* Water Utilization (Control and Regulation) Act No. 42 of 1974.
*  Urban Water Supply Act. No. 7 of 1981.
, Water Utilization (Control and Regulation) Amendment Act. No. 10 of
1981.
* Written Laws (Promotion and Protection) Act. No. 10 of 1990.
* Water Utilization (Miscellaneous Amendment) No.8 of 1997.
* Water Laws (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act of 1999.
Major topics covered in the law in Water Resource concern protection and
exploitation. In water protection important topics deal with:
*  Ownership of water resource
*  Protection of water resource
*  Protection of flora, fauna and natural environment in water resource
* Protection of water quality in other countries
* Discharge of waste water in water sources
For water resource exploitation main topics covered concern with:
* Regulation and distribution of water resource.
* Right of organizations and Individuals to exploit and use water
resource.
* Obligations of organizations and individuals that exploit and use water
resource.
13



* Issuing of permits for exploitation and use of water resource.
(iv) Health & Safety
Generally, legal and policy issues on environment are supposed to provide
healthy and safe environment for sustainable human development. The
legislation relates to the external environment, such as availability of safe and
sufficient water, sewage treatment, waste disposal services and pollution
control mechanisms. Health & Safety issues are also relevant to the
environment at work places, as it affects the health and safety of workers.
The items of legislation that are relevant to health &.safety are found in the
Factories Ordinance and the Penal Code. The Factories Ordinance deals with
health & safety of workers at their work places. The word "factory" as
considered by this ordinance includes most places of work. This ordinance
sets standards for health, safety and welfare of workers. It empowers the
Minister for Labor to make rules for health, safety and welfare of workers. The
legislation states that:
"Where the Minister is satisfied that, any manufacturer, machinery, plant,
equipment, appliances, processes or description of manual labor, is of such a
nature as to cause risk of bodily injury/harm, or to be offensive to the person
employed. Then the Minister shall take a legal action to protect the
employee." Thus, based on its broad context, the ordinance is also relevant to
this project, as far as construction works and operation of equipment on-site is
concerned. The Penal Code can be considered as another relevant legislation
to this project. It restricts the practice of noxious trades and this restriction
extends to cover unsafe places of work.
The existing policy matters within NEP are relevant to Health & Safety. This is
the case because reduction of emissions and pollution from industry and
adoption of clean technologies are beneficial to workforce and the public in
general. The specific policy that refers to health & safety is the industry sector
policy, that seeks to ensure workers' health and safety are adequately
protected from potential environmental health hazards. Again, under the Local
(District and Urban) Authorities Acts (1982), the Local Governments have
been empowered to make by-laws regarding public health and safety issues.
(v) Vegetation & Wildlife
The Wildlife Conservation laws restrict hunting or cutting vegetation in the
National Parks and game reserves. However, the laws are less strict in the
Game Controlled Areas. The Wildlife Conservation Act protects wildlife and
vegetation. Under the Act the utilization of wildlife is restricted to license
holders. The use of sensitive wildlife habitats is restricted during a certain
times of the year or for specific periods.
Wildlife Conservation Act of 1974 (amended in 1974) limits exploitation of
certain forestry resources by requiring specific licenses for harvesting and
selling forests products. The revised Forestry Policy of 1993 recognizes the
14



important role of forests in the maintenance of the environment, provision of
forestry products and the protection of watersheds and bio-diversity.
(vi) Marine and Freshwater Fisheries
The important item of legislation in the fisheries regulation is that which
prohibit flow or passing into water and solid, liquid or gaseous matter or cause
water pollution in any lake, river, dam, estuary or seawater. This legislation
requires any person responsible for pollution to clean the polluted water within
a reasonable period at his/her own expense.
Again, specific regulations were introduced in 1973 and 1982, under the
fisheries Act (1970), to limit annual catches. The legislation also puts
limitations on methods of fish harvesting, including the outlawing of
dynamiting and poisoning.
(vii) Agriculture
The agricultural Policy addresses issues of land degradation from
agrochemical. The donors support programs such as the Land management
Program (LAMP), the Soil Erosion Control and Agroforestry Program
(SECAP) and the Soil Conservation and Agroforestry Program (SCAPA) aim
to reduce pollution from agrochemical.
(viii) Cultural Resource & Heritage
The relevant items of legislation on these issues are found in the Antiquities
Act and Protected places & Areas Act. The Act seeks to protect through
regulation of access to declared monuments, relics and conservation areas.
The protected places and Areas Act gives the Minister for legal Affairs the
authority to prevent or control movement and conduct of people in certain
areas.
2.3     International Treaties & Agreements
The principal international treaties and agreements related to environment of
which Tanzania is a signatory (MTNRE and Green Globe Yearbook, 1993)
are:.
* Convention Related to the Preservation of Fauna and Flora in the their
Natural set up - London 1933
* Convention on the African Migratory Locust - Kano, 1962.
* African Convention on the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resource -
Algeria 1968
* Convention on the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage
(World Heritage Convention) Paris 1972 (UNESCO)
15



* Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna
and Flora (CITES)- Washington DC, 1973 (UNEP)
* United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) Montego
Bay, 1922
* FAO International Undertaking on Plant Genetic Resource Rome, 1983
(FAO)
* FAO International Code of conduct on the Distribution and use of pesticide
- Rome, 1985 (FAO).
* Convention on Biological Diversity- Rio de Janeiro 1992 (UNEP)
* Framework Convention on Climate change - Rio de Janeiro, 1992.
FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Findings
All legislation within the sectoral ministries is adequately covered to guide
environmental management, including EIA requirements. However, no
comprehensive legislation that enforces implementation of NEP or that
empowers NEMC to make EIA requirements legally binding.
The legislation does not adequately address water resource ownership,
management and utilization. Under the existing laws, the United Republic of
Tanzania owns water resource, and every one has a right of access to free
water supply. However, access to some minimal amount for essential needs
is not stipulated in the Water Law.
The issues of ground water utilization, pollution control and monitoring are not
adequately addressed in the current law. This may result into problems and
some times conflicts. For example, in recent years, there have been an
increasing number of individuals and institutions, which have turned into
ground water sources utilization. Monitoring of these individual water users is
important because over-extraction of ground water may result into problems.
These include hydrological imbalance, land subsidence and vulnerability of
the land to tectonic effects (earthquake). Therefore, question of water
pollution, and allocation of ground water resource among various users
should be adequately covered in the legislation, to avoid environment
degradation and hazards due to uncontrolled extraction.
There are some deficiencies in the existing law on water resource. According
to the NWP (2000) the existing legislation does not show clear distinction and
separation of roles of service, operational and management function on one
hand and regulatory functions on the other hand. There is a need to
16



revise/review the current legislation so that regulatory functions are separated
from service functions.
Another shortcoming with the current legislation is the lack of adequate
representation of water users, especially at village level. There is a need to
review the current legislation in order to cover water users at village levels.
The village governments should be encouraged to establish by-laws to protect
the environment and water sources.
There is a linkage between land, environment and water resource
management. Therefore, the MWLD should co-operate with Ministry of Lands
& Urban Development (MLUD), Ministry of Natural Resource and Tourism
(MNRT), Office of the Vice President and Ministry of Agriculture &   Food
(MOAF). The respective legislation should be reviewed and harmonized to
avoid conflicts of interests among the ministries.
The water use issues are dealt with in various sectors, but they are not in
harmony with each other, hence difficult to prosecute offenders. Again, it may
not be appropriate to prosecute them in the absence of comprehensive
legislation. Therefore, such legislation should be established to cover other
sectors. The sector Ministers should then refer to the legislation on water
resource in matters related to their own sector's water use, consumption and
pollution.
Various actors at different levels are performing some aspects of water
resource and environmental management, but no effective co-ordination and
collaboration exist among them. This has resulted into over-lapping
responsibilities and duplication of efforts,
Recommendations
- The formulation of comprehensive legislation should be speeded up to
facilitate implementation of NEP and empower NEMC to make EIA
mandatory and legally binding.
* The issues of water resource ownership, management and utilization
should be specified in the Water Laws.
* The question of ground water utilization, pollution and monitoring should
be addressed in the Water Laws to cope with the current situation,
whereby private and individuals participation in ground water works is
rapidly increasing.
* The current legislation should be reviewed in order to have a clear
distinction and separation of roles of service, operation and management
function on one hand and regulatory function on the other hand.
* The water users at village level should be covered in the current legislation
and the village governments should be encouraged to establish by-laws to
protect water sources and environment in general.
17



* The respective legislation in sector ministries should be reviewed and
harmonized to avoid conflict of interests.
* Comprehensive legislation should be established to cover all water related
sectors and the Minister for water should enforce legislation on various
sectors' consumption and pollution.
* There should be a clear statement of institutional responsibilities and
supporting legislation in to facilitate implementation of NEP and reduce
duplication of efforts.
2.4   Standards Governing Water Quality
The national standards relevant to water quality in Tanzania include the:
* Tanzania Water Quality standards.
* Tanzania Standards for Receiving Water.
* Temporary Standards for Quality of Domestic Water.
* Classification of Environmental Status for fresh water.
* Tanzania Standard for Rural Water Supply.
(i)   Standards for Rural Water
The Tanzania standards for Rural Water Supply consider toxic elements,
mainly fluorides and nitrates, as inorganic compounds with effect on human
health. Generally, values for Tanzania standards are higher than those set by
the European Community (EC) and World Health Organization (WHO).
(ii)   Effluent & Receiving Water Quality Standards
The Ministry of Health in Collaboration with the then Ministry of Water, energy
and Minerals developed the Effluent and Receiving Water Quality standards
in 1977. These standards were adopted and appear as schedules under the
water utilization (control and Regulation) Amendment Act No. 10 of 1981.
The standards comprise of receiving water quality standards, the effluent
quality standard and the domestic water standards.
However, enforcement of existing provisions is limited due to inadequate
resource and fragmented responsibilities within implementing institutions.
Again, there is lack of compliance by industries with current discharge
standards.  Therefore, there is a need for strengthening environmental
regulatory capacity and associated institutional development as proposed by
NEMC.
18



Receiving water Quality Standards
In Tanzania, receiving water quality standards is divided into 3 categories.
The standards provide maximum permissible concentration. That of EC
(1980) gives maximum admissible concentration and WHO (1993) gives
recommendations.
The Category I concern drinking water supplies, swimming pools, food and
beverage manufacturing industries, pharmaceuticals manufacturing industries
or industries requiring water source of similar quality. Category II deals with
the use of water in for domestic animals, fishing, shell cultures, recreation and
water for sports. Category IlIl relates to water for irrigation and other industrial
activities requiring water quality standards lower than those in Category I and
11. The maximum permissible concentrations for three categories include 20
mg/L for Category I & 11 and 30 mg/L for Category l1l.
Effluent standards
The Temporary standards deal with effluents for direct discharge into
receiving waters. The restrictions are that those effluents should not cause
sludge or scum, should not cause change in color, should not change in
natural taste or odor and should not cause temperature change by more than
50C. The standard also deals with effluents for indirect discharge into
receiving waters through municipal sewerage plant. It specifies that effluents
should not have more than 350C or not exceed 50C above ambient
temperature of supplied water.
The Tanzania standards for water quality are regulated through water
utilization Act 1974 (Amendment 1981). This includes regulation on pollution
of water. Under the Act no person may discharge effluents from commercial,
industrial or other trade waste systems into receiving water without consent
duly granted by a water officer. The standards related to effluents and
receiving waters are specified and should be complied with by users of water
before or during discharge into watercourse, receiving waters or municipal
sewerage systems. The standards prescribed in 1981 amendment include
standards for receiving waters, effluents standard and drinking water
standards.
In Tanzania, discharge permit is granted by Public Water Office (PWO) and
Water Basin Offices (WBOs). However, discharge permit is granted by PWO
for new plants only, as most industries in the country are old. Those industries
are not regulated through discharge permits, but they are required to comply
with the national effluent standards. Again, few industries and municipal
waster water plants do regular monitoring of their effluents, although their
reporting procedure is not systematic (NORPLAN, 2000). Again, the River
Basin Water Office (RBWO) and Central Water Laboratory do not perform
regular monitoring, probably due to financial constraints and lack of
equipment.
19



FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Findings
Since the establishment of NEP in 1997 there has been some dramatic policy
changes in sector ministries. The emphasis has been to attain environmental
quality standards objectives. As stated  in the previous section the
Environmental Protection Bill and the Bill to enhance powers and
responsibilities of NEMC has already been prepared for enactment by
parliament. Again, the Draft Institutional & Legal Framework for Environmental
Management is already out since 28 October 1998, and it is currently
undergoing some formal reviews.
It can be noted that the existing, sector ministries in the country have legal
authority to regulate pollution discharge and they play increasing role in
environmental management. However, there are some shortcomings in
effective implementation of pollution standards in the country. There is lack of
clear system for co-ordination, implementation or enforcement of legislation
and regulations. This is reflected in the current levels of environmental
performance in the country. For example, there is a very low level of
compliance to international environmental quality standards, by public and
private sector institutions.
Recommendations
To improve the situation the following recommendations are given for
Tanzania standards:
* The regulation of pollution should be based on Polluter Pay Principle
(PPP), and nobody should have a right to pollute environment. Polluters
should give a proof on the effect of their activities to the environment, that
is, whether the activities do pollute the environment or not.
* Enforcement of the requirements for discharge permits must be
strengthened. However, it should continue to be regulated through the
existing Water Utilization Acts.
* The pollution control and prevention on a system of discharge permits that
focuses on general environmental protection act should be established.
That should cover discharges to water, air emissions, and noise and waste
(solid and liquid wastes) production.
* General effluent standards should not be stated in Water utilization Act,
but they should be stated individually in the discharge permits. It should
be specific to actual (industrial) sector of industry and environmental status
of the receiving waters.  Guidelines for effluent standard should be
established, based on the review of existing standards by NEMC
20



* The contents of an application for discharge permits should be specified in
the regulation and EIA requirements should be submitted to the relevant
authority.
* The pollution control and mitigation measures should be specified by
industries in attending the expected effluent discharge in their applications
for discharges permits.
* The principle of BAT should be adopted and the concept of cleaner
Production Technology. That should include procedures for handling of
applications, provisions for notification and public participation, appeals
and time frame.
*  Regulations should ensure that relevant authorities and institutions are
contacted.
* There should be a provision for existing industries to apply for discharge
permits in a specified time frame. The discharge permits should specify
production capacity, raw materials used, processing chemicals, products
and solid waste disposal.
-  Discharge permits should be linked with license or other permits,
specifications of receiving water and municipal sewerage systems,
discharge limits (intermediate if necessary) and time limit. Other inclusions
should involve operating conditions, such as, the use of Cleaner
Production Technologies, leakage control, minimum water use, etc.
Monitoring and Reporting requirements and procedures should be
specified in the discharge permits, as well as, improvement program.
- There should be a general condition and right for the relevant authority to
inspect the facilities and monitor the discharges. There should be a
system of permit fee and fees for inspection should be introduced.
2.5   EA Requirements and GOT Capacity to handle EIA
The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is the process that involves
identification, analysis and predictions of all significant impacts due to
development project activities, policies and/or programs. The function of EIA
is to predict the impacts of projects, programs, and policies on natural
resource and environmental quality, including communities that depend on or
interact with them. It is a tool for collecting and assembling information to be
used for improvement of project design and implementation.
One the important characteristic of EIA is that it is process oriented, multi-
disciplinary and interactive. It is aimed at providing better understanding of
the linkage between ecological, social, economic and political systems.
Although the words environmental impact assessment is widely employed,
EIA involves social, ecological and risk assessment. The economic benefits
21



of undertaking EIA at earlier stage of project design are well known. For
example, unnecessary social disruption and cost can be avoided by
incorporating EIA in the project design. Experience shows that the cost of
undertaking EIA usually do not exceed 1% of the total project cost (IIED/IRA,
1995).
The history of EIA goes back to 1969 when the United State when the
national Environment Policy Act was formulated. According to the Act all
development project has to undergo EIA. The intention is to identify any
potential impacts resulting from proposed project activities so that mitigation
measures could be implemented to minimize or if possible avoid those
impacts. In 1986, the World Bank made EIA to be mandatory in its bank
financed development projects. Thereafter, the African Development Bank
(AfDB) and other multilateral and bilateral agencies including, the United
Nations (UN) agencies introduced EIA. Again, the European Community (EC)
in 1989 directed its member states to undertake EIA for major development
projects.
In Tanzania, EIA was given more importance by GOT after the Rio declaration
in 1992. According to principle 17 of the Rio Declaration, project proponents
of any proposed development activities that are likely to have significant
environmental impacts should undertake EIA. The NEP (1997) and NWP
(2000) require that all major development projects should be subject to EIA.
Again, some initiatives have been taken by other sectors to incorporate EIA in
their policies and planning. For example, the Tanzania National Park
(TANAPA) policy requires EIA preparation for development activities within
and/or adjacent to the national park boundaries (TANAPA, 1994). The policy
covers all development activities by TANAPA itself, government agencies and
private sector. EIA requirement also includes the General Management Plans
(TANAPA Planning Unit, 1994). Other sectors also include the Department of
Wildlife, the Ministry of Energy & Minerals (MEM) and Tanzania Electric
Supply Company (TANESCO).
The Department of Wildlife policy requires EIA for all significant development
proposals within protected areas in Tanzania (Department of Wildlife, 1996).
The protected areas in this case include the game controlled areas, game
reserves and forest reserves. The Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority
has also developed its policy that makes EIA to be undertaken for any
development project within its boundaries. TANESCO has also made EIA to
be mandatory for all power generation projects and high-tension electricity
transmission lines.
However, those policy guidelines are not effectively being implanted due to
lack of supporting legislation. As already stated in the previous sections, the
Environmental Protection Bill is still waiting to be passed by parliament.
Again, it is only in the recent years that the Vice President 's Office through its
Environment Division has worked out an Institutional & Legal Framework for
environmental Management. However, the framework legislation is in a draft
form and just undergoing some reviews.
22



So far it is only the MEM that has incorporated EIA requirements in its mining
policy and has developed the Environmental Management & Legislative
Framework (MEM, 1996). According to the policy, EIA should be undertaken
for large-scale mining, and mining licenses should be issued with
rehabilitation bonds.
FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
(a)   Findings
The review study for EIA performance in Tanzania has shown the lack of
adequate expertise, institutional weakness and absence of legal framework as
a major constraint (IIED/IRA 1995). However, since 1992 after the Rio
Declaration, the GOT has been taking some policy initiatives to ensure
sustainable development without compromising the environment. The NEP
policy initiatives are reflected in the National Conservation Strategy for
Sustainable Development (NCSSD) (NEMC, 1994); and the National
Environment Action Plan (EAP), National Environment Policy (MTNRE,
1994).
In the recent years, the Vice President's Office has released a Draft
Institutional and Legal Framework for Environmental Management (Vice
President's Office, 1998). The draft framework is still undergoing formal
review. It emphasizes integration of other ministries, including the MOW.
However, evidence shows that there is a weak co-operation and co-ordination
between the Vice President's Office and the MWLD (NORPLAN, 2000).
Again, although the NEP (1997) requires EIA to be mandatory for major
development projects there is no environmental legislation for enforcing EIA in
the country. The Draft Environment Protection Bill was formed in 1994 but still
not yet enacted. The NEP recognizes the need for effective EIA framework,
but the policy does not give details of institutional responsibilities. For EIA to
be effective, specific legislation is needed to clearly state the role and
responsibilities for conducting EIA in Tanzania. Thus in the absence of
institutional responsibilities and supporting legislation it is not possible to have
effective EIA process in Tanzania. However, despite these shortcomings the
existing legislation in different sectors can help to guide and support the
enforcement of EIA in Tanzania.
The past EIA experience in Tanzania (IIED/IRA), 1995) reveals some
shortcomings in conducting EIA studies. These limitations have been in terms
of quality of TOR, screening & scoping, statement clarity, quality of impact
prediction, evaluation of significance of impacts, assessment of alternative
options, quality of mitigation proposed, quality of monitoring & involvement of
local people. That has been caused by low level of awareness on EIA by the
senior staff in relevant institutions. Some of them have been noted to regard
EIA as a constraint and that it can increase project implementation costs.
23



Although there is a wide range of organizations with expertise relevant to EIA
in country, most of them have never been exposed to EIA process and do not
have EIA specific expertise. The low level of EIA expertise in the country can
be attributed to historical reasons, as for a longtime the EIA studies have
been undertaken by international consultants or expatriate experts. However,
in recent years the involvement of local consulting firms has been increasing,
especially following the World Bank policy to facilitate local capacity building.
The EIA requirements in Tanzania are not supported by legislation and there
no responsible authorities have been explicitly designated according to sector
legislation. However, some sector ministries have included EIA requirements
in their sector laws and regulations. For example, the Tanzania National
Parks (TANAPA) has made EIA to be mandatory and it has already
developed its own guidelines for carrying out EIA since 1993. Again, the
process of establishing comprehensive legislation and regulatory frameworks
is still on going in the country.
The NEP requires EIA to be mandatory for major development projects.
However, there are no defined institutional responsibilities for EIA and EIA
regulatory framework exists only in few protected areas, such as the national
parks, marine parks and game reserves. Again, the national capacity for
management and implementation of environmental assessment requirements
is still limited. The EIA regulatory framework still covers only certain sectors
and capacity to implement recommendations of mitigation and environmental
management is low within those sectors.
The increasing involvement of private sector on the national development and
future enactment of national level EIA legislation will significantly increase
demand for indigenous EIA expertise.
(b)  Recommendations
* There should be an overall political decision so that general regulations on
EIA are stated in the Environmental or Planning legislation. The process of
enacting legislation should be speeded up to cope with the rapid economic
transformation towards privatization.
* Since there is no overall EIA legislation the provision for EIA should be
stated in the Water Laws. The water policy review and Water Utilization
Act should include EIA requirements for water resource projects.
* The EIA should be mandatory of large-scale water projects and should be
based on investment costs and projects in sensitive areas.
* The MWLD should develop its own guidelines on EIA to provide guidance
on more specific water related aspects.
* There is a need to build capacity to undertake EIA within the national
institutions including the MWLD.
24



. The  national capacity  to  collect baseline  information  should  be
strengthened.
. The existing sector expertise should be harnessed to improve their
capacity to undertake EIA.
* There should be some training to improve awareness on the role of EIA at
national, regional and district levels.
2.6  Institutional Needs and Capability
(a) Village level
The institutional set-up at village level shows that there is a Village
Government (VG), comprised of the Village Chairman (VC), Village Executive
Officer (VEO) and Village Hamlet Leaders (VHLs) as members. Under the
village government, there are three main committees and four sub-
committees.
The main committees include:
* Finance, Economy & Planning.
* Defense & Security
* Construction & Social Services.
* Education & Social Services
The sub-committees include:
* Water Committees.
* Health Committees.
* Environment Committees.
• School Committees.
However, the formation of sub-committees varies among villages, depending
on the need and/or requirements of a given village. For example in Jaribu
Mpakani Village there is a Production committee dealing with village funded
projects.
(b) District Level
The institutional set-up at district level shows the presence of the following
Departments under the District Council:
* District Water Department (DWD)
* District Natural Resource Department (DNRD).
* District Community Development Office.
25



* District Health
In addition to those departments, a District Environment Committee works
under the District Council to ensure water resource & environmental
protection.
(c)   At National level
The national level institutional set-up shows that there is a Division of Water
Resource (DWR) headed by a Director. Under the DWR there is a Technical
Section headed by Assistant Director. The technical section is comprised of
three departments. These include the Surface Water Resource Assessment,
Hydrogeology, and Water Resource Management (WRM). The department of
WRM deals with all aspects of water resource regulations and management,
including international water resource & pollution control. Other organs are the
Basin Water Boards (BWBs) and Basin Water Office (BWO), which regulate
all declared river basins. Basin Water Officer heads the Basin Water Office.
There is a National Water resource Commission (NWRC) that is responsible
for integration of the activities of all water-related sectors. The secretariat of
the committee is within the WRD and the Director of WRD is the secretary.
The President will appoint the chairman of the Commission. According to the
proposed set up the Central Water Board (CWB) will cease to operate. All
functions of the CWB will be taken by NWRC, the WRM and the BWBs.
The functions of water quality management are currently under the Water
laboratory Unit (WLU). These functions will be shifted to the DWR and will be
within the Hydrology & Hydrogeology sections. However, it is not clear,
whether each section will have its own water laboratory unit.
Under this set-up, the District Councils (DCs) will be responsible for policy
implementation, monitoring and evaluation. Another responsibility of the DCs
will be water resource and environmental protection, including conservation of
and protection of catchment areas through the District Environmental
Committees (DECs).
FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
(a)   Findings
Findings indicate that institutional capacity at village level is low in terms of
human and financial resources. The low revenue base in the majority of the
villages is one of the major contributing factors. Women participation in village
committees is still low, except in health and water committees (Appendix 111).
26



However, the existing retired civil servants could be utilized for capacity
building. In other villages such as Kilimani, the people have appreciated the
role being played by the religious institution. According to them the institution
provides them with hygiene education, moral issues and assists them in
solving water supply problems. The traditional healers have also been seen to
play major role in providing medical service.
(b)   Recommendations
The existing institutional set-up at both levels is adequate for water resource
and environmental management in general. However, there are some
recommendations that can be considered to make it effective:
* There is a need for CDO & DWE to work with REM  to develop
environmental management plan in the pilot villages at District and village
levels. They should also develop environmental and socio-economic
monitoring systems. The REM should assist in the training and community
awareness in environmental conservation and sanitation issues at village
level/common level. The REM should win the confidence of the local
community in Mangrove conservation through training and provision of
water supply scheme and sanitation facilities.
* There is a need to develop local private sector at district level to increase
their participation. Involvement of local community should be promoted in
the construction works.  Priority should be given to local contractors,
unless it is noted that the work requires a more qualified external
contractor or private sector. Local NGOs and CBOs should be involved in
various activities related to water supply & sanitation and environmental
management.
* The markets for water supply materials should be promoted by improving
technical know how though training for technicians involved in 0 & M at
district and community level.
* The retired civil servants should be trained on 0 & M of water supply
schemes.
* The village government and water committees should be trained on
financial and managerial skills, as well as good leadership.
* The water committees should be trained on environmental management
and conservation. This should include establishment of tree nurseries and
planting trees.
* The villagers should be mobilized form economic groups in order to
expand their revenue base. Once organized the village government in
27



collaboration with the District Council should assist the group in soliciting
soft loan from donor agencies like TASAF.
* The retired civil servants should be trained in 0 & M of water supply
schemes.
* The existing religious and traditional institutions should be incorporated in
the rural water supply, sanitation & hygiene programme.
3.0  PROJECT DESCRIPTION
(a)   Background
The project is still in its design stage and before it could be implemented,
some preliminary studies had to be undertaken. To-date a number of studies
have already been conducted. These include, the Supply Chain Study
(Baumann & Lymo, 2000), Project Implementation Manual (MOW, 1999),
learning innovation loan (LIL-RWSSM, MOW, 1999) and the Review of Rural
Water Supply & Sanitation Project for Kilosa, Rufiji & Mpwapwa districts
(MMK Project Services Ltd., 1999).
Another step towards project implementation involved establishment of
District Water and Sanitation Teams (DWSTs). The responsibility of DWSTs is
to provide information and link (liaison) with the already established Rural
Water Division (RWD) under the MWLD. In that connection the DWSTs are
also responsible for identifying eligible communities for financing according to
guidelines stipulated in the District Water and Sanitation Plan (DWSP). As
shown in the Project Information Document (PID)-First Draft, the project will
be financed jointly by the World Bank through IDA, the Government of
Tanzania (GOT) and the Rural Communities.
(b)   Purpose and Objectives
The purpose of the project is to improve the existing water supply & sanitation
conditions for ten selected villages of Rufiji district. The project aims towards
improving the health condition of the rural people through provision of safe,
clean and affordable water supply. Specifically the objectives of the project
are:
* To rehabilitate the existing water supply schemes, and whenever
necessary to construct the new ones.
* To provide sanitation and hygiene education to the rural communities of
the selected villages.
* To create awareness on HIV/AID prevention among the rural people.
* To sensitize the rural communities on environmental issues so that they
can manage their water schemes in a sustainable manner.
28



(c)   Components and Activities
The project implementation will be carried out at both national and community
(district) levels. At community level, the project involves establishment of
District Implementation Model in the three districts. Under this component the
main activities are:
* Establishment of DWSTs.
* Strengthening of operational capacity of the DWSP.
* Appraisal of community sub-projects through on-site surveys.
* Establishment of DWSS fund for operation and maintenance community
sub-projects.
* Hygiene and sanitation education and promotion of HIV/AIDS prevention.
* Rehabilitation and construction of RWSS schemes.
At National level, the project will involve development of building up/scaling up
strategy for National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Programme. The
major activities under this component are:
* Consultation with stakeholder to develop strategy for scaling up and to
develop approach, scope, financing and institutional arrangement for
implementation of Nat. RWSS programme.
* Development of institutional framework for project implementation.
* Promoting capacity building through involvement of private sector relevant
to RWSS, MOWLD staff and other relevant complementary and partner
agency staff.
(d)   Duration and Time Frame
The project is expected to take three years and the initial 6-month will be used
for project promotion through community mobilization and stakeholder
consultation. That will be followed by on-site surveys and developing designs
for the identified potential water supply schemes. The next step will be actual
implementation, involving rehabilitation, construction of new schemes, and
training of rural community on environment, hygiene and sanitation matters,
as well as proper management of water funds.
(e)   Beneficiaries
29



Initially the direct beneficiaries of this project are the community members of
selected villages, but eventually the project will benefit the whole of Rufiji
district. Other beneficiaries are the District Councils, Private Contractors,
NGOs, CBOs, and other organizations operating in the project area.
(f)   Financing agencies
The project will be financed partly by the rural communities in the selected
villages, the World Bank, the District Councils and the GOT through the
MOWLD. Funds will also be sought from other external support agencies for
example, by linking the project through co-ordination and planning to IDA-
TASAF water component project.
(g)  Implementing agencies
The MOWLD will be the main implementing agency through multi stakeholder
Technical Advisory Committee (TAC). The TAC will be responsible for project
follow-up. Policy issues and dissemination of information related to the
project. Other implementing agency is the District council through the DWST.
The DWST will be responsible for preparation of District Water and Sanitation
Plan (DWSP), endorsement of policy principles and establishment of District
WSS Fund. The rural communities of the 10 selected villages will also
participate fully in the project implementation through their Village Water
Supply and Sanitation Committees (VWSS). Details on the mechanism for
project implementation are described in the project information are described
in the Project Information Document (PID) prepared by the MOWLD.
(h)   Sustainability
The sustainability is ensured through community participation. They will be
involved in important areas including contracting of goods and services, and
operation and maintenance of water supply schemes. The availability of
goods and services is ensured by involvement of district and regionally based
Private Contractors, NGOs, CBOs, and other Partner Organization (PO).
Generally, the sustainability indicators are:
* Community participation.
* Gender balance is addressed especially in water committees.
* Private sector participation.
* Involvement of NGOs, POs, Private contractors in policy formulation.
* Training of WATSAN staff to build their capacity.
* Environment, hygiene and sanitation issues are addressed, through,
training, education and awareness creation among rural communities.
30



FIG. 2:  MAP OF RUFIJI DISTRICT-AGRO-ECONOMIC ZONES
31



4.0   BIOPHYSICAL AND SOCIO-ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
4.1   BIOPHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT
(a)   Climate
The district is characterized by two rainy seasons, with higher rainfalls
between March-April and slightly lower from January to February. The rest of
the periods are usually dry, especially from June to October. The mean
annual rainfalls vary from 900 to 1100 mm. However, there is some variation
in rainfall distribution, whereby it ranges between 700-800 mm in the extreme
west and up to 1100 mm along the coastal areas.
The average temperature varies between 240C in June, July, and 280C during
December and February. The minimum and maximum temperatures range
between 20°C-300C in the delta and 18°C-300C beyond the delta zone,
respectively.
(b)   Topography
Generally, the topographic of the district is characterized by hilly plateau, the
flood plain (lowland) formed by the Rufiji river, which passes across the
district from west to east and ends into a delta before entering the Indian
ocean. Again, the Rufijji river valley is divided into three distinct areas. These
include the delta area in the eastern part of Mbwera Division and the Southern
section of Ndutawa Division. Then there is a lower valley including Utete
town, the western side of Mbwera, most of lkwiriri, southern Kikale and
northeastern part of Mhoro Division. The upper valley includes part of Utete,
Mpanga and the central part of Rutende-Mtanga Divisions.
(c)   Geology and Geomorphology
The geology of Rufiji district consists of highly stratified alluvial deposits with
sands, gravel and clay materials of quaternary origin on lowlands. On the
highland areas the geology is dominated by Post-karoo sedimentary deposits
of Meso-cainozoic origin, comprising mainly of sand, silt, clays and limestone
materials.
The geomorphology of the area is formed by Congo erosion surface of
Quaternary age, with low-lying coastal plains and pediplains.
(d)   Soils
The soils vary from well-drained sands, clays and sandy-clay loam in the
upland and coastal areas. The soils along the river valley are dominated by
heavy waterlogged clays. In the coastal belt, soils vary from dark-brown clays
to reddish-brown loamy sands and sandy loam mixed with dark-brown sandy
clays. Again, in lowland areas soils vary from poorly drained dark-gray to
brown cracking clays and tend to become black and saline towards the delta
32



zone. However, in upland areas soils vary from well drained grayish-brown
sandy loam to sandy-clays.
On the southern parts soils vary from reddish-brown to yellowish-red; and
from loamy sands along the slopes to sandy-clay loam on hilly areas.
In general, soil erosion is not common in most parts of the district. Soil fertility
is maintained by local people through inter-planting, fallow or shifting
cultivation. The soils fertility is high in lowland areas, especially along the
flood plain and delta zones.
Although no significant land degradation have occurred in the district,
uncontrolled bush fires, tree felling, fuel wood collection as well as charcoal
burning are the potential threat in the area.
(e)   Hydrogeology
The potential ground water sources occur three distinct areas i.e. the coastal
belt (0-100 m.a.s.l), the river valley (0-100 m.a.s.l.) and the highland plateau
(coastal hills and highland areas) between 100-480 m.a.s.l.
The low-lying areas consisting of quaternary alluvial sands and gravel and
meso-cainozoic sedimentary deposits and sandstone present a potential
source with capacity of between 1-15 L/s (litres per second). In the higher
areas with quaternary alluvium, the re-charge capacity can reach between 1-
4L/s. The southwestern part, which is comprised of meso-cainozoic
sedimentary deposits, the re-charge rate is relatively low (0-1 Us). The depths
in low-lying areas range, from 10-30 m but may be higher in upland areas.
(f)   Ground & Surface Water Availability
(i)   Ground Water
The ground water availability is significantly high as can be noted by the
hydro-geological characteristic of the project area. In most parts of the district,
especially, in lowland areas water can be obtained at 10-30 m depth. The
lowland areas include the coastal belt (0-100 m.a.s.l.) and the Rufiji river
valley (0-100 m.a.s.l.). In the highland areas, (100-480 m.a.s.l) ground water
availability decreases and water can be obtained at 30-60 m below ground
levels.
(ii)   Surface water
The potential water sources include the Rufiji river itself, 13 fresh water lakes,
several permanent and seasonal swamps and a number of river tributaries.
(g)   Water Quality and Pollution sources
33



The assessment of ground water quality indicates most of the Hand pump
shallow wells contain saline water but of varying degrees depending on their
locations. The salinity levels have been reported by the local people to be
higher during dry season and decrease during wet seasons.
The quality of surface water has been affected through pollution due to human
activities, trampling by animals (both domestic and wild animals). In some
villages, algae and waterweeds are common features in water bodies,
indicating high degree of contamination by nitrogenous compounds (e.g.
nitrates). The majority of the water bodies show high degree of turbidity due to
disturbance by human beings and animals. The turbidity levels become higher
during rainfalls due to sediments brought by surface run-off. Although no
laboratory analysis was made possibility of bacteriological contamination,
especially fecal coliforms cannot be ruled out due to human practice. This
assumption is also supported by high incidence of diarrhea among the local
communities. The sustainability of surface waters is also being threatened by
vegetation destruction around water sources.
Some growth of algae, waterweeds and high turbidity of water in the Ox-bow
Lake at Rumiozi in Kimbuga village is a good indicator of water pollution. The
source is prone to contamination by human being and wild animals such as
monkeys, elephants and wild pigs.
(h)   Air quality and sources of emissions
No assessment has been done on air quality but the majors sources of
emissions are bush fires and domestic fuel burning. The frequent bush fires
and fuel wood usually produce smoke containing mainly CO & CO2. Again, all
households in the rural areas depend on fuel wood and to a lesser extent
charcoal. It may be possible that domestic fuel wood burning significantly
contributes to CO & C02, emissions and hence to green house effect. So far,
no attempt has been made to estimate the amount of gaseous emissions
being produced per household per/year, or that produced by bush fires.
(i)   Vegetation
The vegetation in the district is comprised of Brachystegia-Cumbretum and
Terminalia woodland and wooded grassland mosaics. However, in the delta
the mangrove and other riparian vegetation communities are more dominant.
The wetland areas are also common in the district, especially in the flood plain
and along stream valleys. The general vegetation cover for the district is
shown in Fig. 3.
The vegetation pattern indicates the lowland areas and the coastal belt are
dominated by Brachystegiia (miombo) woodland. The Cumbretum-
Brachystegia and Terminalia woodland are dominant on the northern and
southern part of the district. However, in the flood plain the vegetation is
dominated by Hyperrhenia grassland, with scattered trees on upper areas and
mangrove swamps towards the delta zone.
34



(j)   Wildlife
The large number of wildlife is concentrated in the Selous Game Reserve,
covering an area of about 6,258 km2. Other areas include, the
Tapika/N arambe (688 kM2), Mloka (478 kM2), and Rumbi Forest Reserves
(678 km ). The Rufiji River, including the ox-bow lakes contains a large
population of crocodiles and hippopotamus, amphibians, reptiles and
numerous fish as aquatic organisms.
The most common terrestrial wildlife includes, large herbivores such as
elephants, rhinoceros (few), zebra, buffalo, antelope, giraffe, wild pigs etc.
The larger carnivores include lions, hyenas, leopards and cheetah. However,
the presence of numerous snakes, lizards, birds and small mammals can not
be over-ruled in this type of ecosystem.
Primates such as baboons and monkeys are also common, usually tending to
move towards nearby farms. The wild pigs, birds and monkeys are the most
common pests. According to socio-economic profile (1997) between 30-40%
of crops is usually destroyed by wild animals, birds and other pests before
harvest. Again, the wild animals pose a potential threat to the local people as
shown in the report, whereby during 1991 & 1996 wild animals killed about 75
people and another 32 people were injured (Socio-economic Profile of Rufiji
District, 1997).
(k)   Significant Features
The significant features of eco-tourism and tourism importance are:
* The Selous Game Reserve about 6,258 km2 which extend eastwards from
the Stiegler's gorge.
* The Rufiji delta with Mangrove forest Reserve
* The Hot spring (4-km) from Utete district headquarters.
* Lake Utunge, which is close to, Selous Game Reserve.
(I)   Unique habitat of ecological and economic significance
The unique habitats of ecological significance include the mangrove forest
swamps, fresh water and salt swamps that provide an important habitat for
aquatic invertebrates, and numerous insects. These areas act as a home of
biological diversity for many aquatic flora and fauna. Wetlands areas act as a
bridge for exchanging biological materials between terrestrial and marine
ecosystems. They provide a natural filter to minimize sediment loads transport
into the estuaries hence protecting the marine habitat against pollution. They
also help to reduce storm water pressure and run off. During rainfalls
numerous invertebrates and insects are carried into the estuaries, hence
35



providing unlimited amount of food to marine organisms, such as fish species,
prawns, crabs and other marine organisms of commercial importance.
(m)  Vectors
Mosquitoes and Tsetsefly are the common disease vectors in the project
area. The tsetsefly are mainly common in the Brachystegia-Cumbretum and
Terminalia woodland vegetation, hence making cattle keeping difficult in the
area. The vectors are important for transmission of sleeping sickness in
human being and trypanosomiasis livestock. Mosquitoes are responsible for
malaria (anopheles), elephantiasis (culex) and yellow fever (aides). However,
the most common mosquitoes are anopheles and culex.
4.2  SOCIO-ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
(a)   Demography
Basing on 1988 census estimates the population of Rufiji district can be
projected at 180,833 people.
(b)   Human Settlement
Human settlements occur in small isolated clusters. The majority of the
houses are thatched with mud walls, sticks and poles. However, in some
villages it is common to find few houses built up of cement blocks with
corrugated iron sheets.
(c)   Landuse and Land Tenure
The land is used mainly for cultivation and land availability is high due to small
population. The land use pattern in the project area is shown in Fig. 3.
The ownership of land is by individuals on permanent basis and people
usually grow permanent crops. However, some of them grow temporary crops
and do practice shifting cultivation. Traditionally, land is inherited and may be
leased or rented to individuals but is never sold.
(d)   Socio-cultural condition
The main ethnic groups are the Ndengereko, Keto (few), Zaramo and Warufiji.
The majority of the people in the district belong to Islamic religion. Indeed the
culture of the local communities in rural area is influenced by the Islamic
religion. However, in Utete town and other small towns like lkwiriri and Kibiti
people belong to multi-ethnic groups with different religious denominations,
although Islamic and Christian religions are the most dominant ones.
(e)   Social Services
36



(i)   Education
Nearly all ten selected villages have one primary school. However, the
enrolment is poor and villagers complain of inadequate number of teaching
staff, classrooms, desks and tables.
(ii)   Water Supply
The water supply coverage in the district is low with high number of non-
functioning schemes. According to the district socio-economic economic
profile (1997), the water supply coverage is about 28% by population. There
are about 28 deep wells and 179 shallow wells, of which 64% and 76% of
them respectively are functioning.
The majority of villagers depend on traditional wells, streams or rivers, ox-bow
lakes and ponds. However, traditional wells and natural sources are usually
prone to pollution due to human activities and wild animals. The water supply
status for the ten selected villages is shown in Appendix IV.
(iii) Health
All villages except two of them have at least one dispensary. However, lack of
medicines, inadequate staff, and long distance to seek medical services is a
major problem in most rural areas.
(iv)  Transport
The major means of transport in the villages is bicycles and walking.
However, in the district centers vehicles are available. The road network in the
district is relatively good but some sections in the rural areas have been
damaged by El-nino rains. The transport between Utete and the Southern part
of the Rufiji river district is constrained by frequent break down of panton/ferry.
Currently, a one kilometer bridge is being constructed across the river by the
GOT with assistance from Kuwait Fund. Once completed the bridge will ease
communication between Dar Es Salaam and southern part of the country.
(v)   Energy
The major source of energy in the district is fuel wood, charcoal and
kerosene, whereby fuel wood and charcoal is used for cooking, and kerosene
for lighting, respectively.
(f)   Agriculture
The agriculture largely depends on hand hoe with farm size ranging from
small to medium size. Common food crops include rice, maize, cassava, millet
and few bananas. Cash crops include cashew nut, oils seeds (castor oil &
sunflower), citrus fruits and cotton,
37



The soil fertility is usually maintained through inter-planting and fallow or
shifting cultivation. They also use fire to clear land, thus resulting into
destruction of natural vegetation.
There is a division of labor among the local communities, whereby cultivation
is done by women and fishing or hunting is by men.
Crop protection against animals is done through hunting and scaring. The
most destructive animals are monkeys, baboons and wild pigs.
Most of the households in the rural areas depend on simple hand hoe for
cultivation and do not practice irrigation. Generally, the most of the villages
are faced by periodic food shortages due to low productivity.
(g)   Livestock
Livestock keeping in the district is limited due to tsetse-fly infestation. Only
few villages do keep cattle and goats. These include villages like Chumbi,
Jaribu Mpakani and Nyamwage. However, nearly all villages do keep poultry
to provide eggs for commercial and ritual purpose.
(h)   Sanitation, Hygiene & Health
The majority of households in the rural areas have unlined open roofed pit
latrines with temporary walls made up of coconut leaves. The pit latrines are
not durable, as they always collapse and overflow during rainfalls. People use
pit latrines mainly for disposal of human wastes, but sometimes they use them
as bathrooms. Field investigation have also shown that majority of households
do not have wastewater disposal facilities. Again, most of them do not boil
drinking water or even wash their hands.
The lack of adequate water supply, ignorance and taboo has been claimed to
be one of the major reasons for poor hygienic practices. Because of that,
water borne and sanitary related diseases are very common in the rural
areas.
38



FIG. 3:  THE MAP OF RUFIJI DISTRICT-LAND USE AND
VEGETATION COVER
39



5.0  POTENTIAL       COMMUNITY        SUB-PRPJECTS        AND      THEIR
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
5.1   Potential Community Sub-Projects
The purpose of this section is to present identified potential impacts that may
result from community sub-projects. However, as already mentioned the
project is still in its design stage and so far specific sites for implementation of
its components has not been identified. Therefore, the identification of impacts
can not be explicitly done at this level. However, it is still possible to predict its
potential impacts based on the existing water supply &  sanitation schemes
in the selected villages. Thus basing on existing information (Appendix IV) the
potential community sub-projects may include, hand pump shallow wells, ring
wells, pumping scheme/mechanized bore hole and pumped surface water
(e.g. ox-bow lakes, rivers/streams and ponds). Again, the associated actions
on those community sub-projects may involve rehabilitation of the existing
schemes or construction of the new ones. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that
choice of technology (options) will depend on cost effectiveness, affordability,
and its appropriateness under local conditions. This will also involve
availability (quantity) and quality of ground and surface water resource. For
example in lowland areas Hand pump shallow wells (HPSV\) may be
appropriate but on upland areas, it would be necessary to opt for Mechanized
deep wells (MDW). In those localities with permanent stream/river, lake or
ponds the Pumped surface water (PSW) with piped systems may be
appropriate if construction and water treatment costs can be afforded.
5.2   Environmental Impacts
The environmental assessment in this study focuses on impacts resulting
from both project activities and communities actions. For example, vegetation
destruction during well construction is considered as an impact resulting from
the project activities. On the other hand, tree felling around water sources or
on the upper catchment areas is considered as an impact due to community
actions. The study also considers both positive and negative impacts.
The state of the environment in the project area indicates that there is no
significant land degradation due low population density and few agricultural
activities. However, in recent years there has been an increasing exploitation
of forest resources by outsiders, especially mangroves. This has prompted
the establishment of Rufiji Environmental Management Project (REMP) that
educates the local communities on environmental conservation. It is
anticipated that increasing over-exploitation of forest products may result into
disruption of hydrological cycle, hence affecting the availability of water
resource. One of the possible mitigation measures in this project should
therefore be to promote environmental conservation through awareness
creation and education among the local communities. This may include
promoting tree planting, use of alternative energy sources and house
construction materials.
40



Another possible impact expected from the project could be due to over-
extraction of ground water, hence leading into land instability, tectonic effects
and disruption of hydrological balance. However, the findings from the study
have also revealed that there is high water availability with recharge rate
between 1-15 LUs. Again, the total volume of water extracted for domestic
purpose in the rural area is not expected to have any significant effect on
land.
The project is not expected to have significant impact on air quality due to
drilling equipment and/or vehicles on-site. So far, most of the background
emissions have been noted to come from bush fires and domestic
consumption of fuel wood/ charcoal burning. The impact of these emissions
on the environment in terms of green house effect has not been determined,
but continued bush fires and over-exploitation of fuel wood are the obvious
threaten to water resource availability.
The project may result into vegetation degradation due to land clearing for
access roads creation during transportation of drilling rigs, machinery and
other equipment to the Well sites. Other source of vegetation degradation due
to project activities will result from laying out of water supply pipeline
associated with construction of Pumped Schemes/Mechanized Deep Wells
and/or Pumped surface water schemes. However, the impact is expected to
be minimal and localized, as the construction activities will be confined on-site
and along the designated pipeline routes. Moreover, the contractor will be
advised to employ labour intensive technology that makes use of labour force
from the local communities.
In principle, the project shall have some positive impacts (benefits) to the local
communities. Those positive impacts anticipated from the project include:
- Increased income to the food vendors, especially women by selling food to
the construction workforce. However, this will be only temporary
depending on the duration of construction activities.
* Improved health condition to the rural community due to accessibility to
clean and safe water supply.
* Employment opportunity to the local people, especially youth and women,
as they shall be engaged in the construction work.
* Improved sanitary condition and hence decreased incidence of water
borne and sanitary related diseases.
* Improved skills in 0 & M of water supply & sanitation schemes and
financial, managerial and administrative skills to the community leaders
due to training package.
* Improved environmental condition in the rural community due to created
awareness and training in environmental conservation activities, including
41



tree planting, application of environmentally sound technologies (e.g. use
of alternative construction materials).
However, despite its beneficial impact the project is expected to have a
number of negative impacts that may require some considerations.
Specifically, those negative environmental impacts are associated with:
*   Water resource availability (quantity) & quality, including degradation of
water sources (e.g. vegetation destruction around water sources and
pollution by human activities and animals.
*  Construction activities.
*  Wastewater and Solid waste disposal methods, including human wastes
(excreta).
The relevant environmental impacts of major concern to various community
sub-projects are summarized in EA Checklist (Table 1).
TABLE 1: EA CHECKLIST FOR COMMUNITY SUB-PROJECTS
(a) Hand Pump Shallow Wells (HSW)
Ground water pollution due to improper location by being close to pit latrines, cemeteries
or burial grounds.
Clearing of vegetation due to creation of access roads for transporting of drilling rigs and
other equipment to well sites, or during laying out water supply pipelines.
Accumulation of wastewater as a result of people washing or bathing close to the well
site or stand pipes, hence resulting into creation of potential
Breeding ground for diseases transmitting vectors such as mosquitoes.
Destruction of installations by floods and storm water, due to being close to stream/river
banks in flood prone areas.
(b) Ring Wells
Ground water pollution due to improper location by being close to pit latrines, cemeteries
or burial grounds.
Clearing of vegetation due to creation of access roads for transporting of drilling rigs and
other equipment to well sites, or during laying out water supply pipelines.
Accumulation of wastewater as a result of people washing or bathing close to the well
site or stand pipes, hence resulting into creation of potential
Breeding ground for diseases transmitting vectors such as mosquitoes.
Destruction of installations by floods and storm water, due to being close to stream/river
banks in flood prone areas.
Contamination of water due to poor handling or using dirty containers or due to surface
run-off entering a well during rainfalls.
(c) Pumped Scheme/Mechanized Deep Wells (PS/MDW)
Clearing of vegetation due to creation of access roads for transporting of drilling rigs and
other equipment to well sites, or during laying out water supply pipelines.
Accumulation of wastewater as a result of people washing or bathing close to the well
site or stand pipes, hence resulting into creation of potential breeding ground for
diseases transmitting vectors such as mosquitoes.
Contamination of water due to poor handling or using dirty containers or due to surface
run-off entering a well during rainfalls.
42



(d) Pumped Surface Water (PSW)
Clearing of vegetation due to creation of access roads for transporting of drilling rigs and
other equipment to weil sites, or during laying out water supply pipelines.
Accumulation of wastewater as a result of people washing or bathing close to the well
site or stand pipes, hence resulting into creation of potential breeding ground for
diseases transmitting vectors such as mosquitoes.
Spontaneous growth of algae/water weeds due to temperature and penetration of
sunlight in open wells, storage tanks or reservoirs.
Contamination of water due to poor handling or using dirty containers or due to surface
run-off entering a well during rainfalls.
Contamination due to human activities and wild animals upstream or around standing
water sources (e.g. lakes or ponds) or due to surface run-off entering during rainfalls.
6.0    MITIGATION AND TRAINING PLAN
6.1    MITIGATION PLAN
According to the World Bank Guidelines (OD 4.00-Annex A), this project falls
under Category B, since its environmental issues are specific and mitigation
measures can be easily incorporated into a project design. Therefore, unlike
Category A projects, this project does not require detailed environmental
management plans, but only mitigation plans are adequate (Table 2).
TABLE 2: PROPOSED MITIGATION PLANS
POTENTIAL IMPACTS                MITIGATION MEASURES           ACTORS
A. ConstructionlProject impacts
Destruction of vegetation leading  Land restoration and planting  Contractor monitored  by
into soil erosion because of access  vegetation                Supervising Engineer
roads creation during transportation
of drilling rigs and other equipment Minimize vegetation destruction
to well sites and/or due to pipelines  by   restricting   construction
construction.                    activities on-site, using labour
intensive technology and avoid
unnecessary deviations during
construction of access roads or
laying out of water supply
pipelines
Dumping of drilling wastes and  Remove all spoils and other Contractor monitored by a
construction spoils.             solid wastes from the site and  Supervision Engineer.
dispose them properly.
Loss of crops and agricultural land  Consultation  with  community  District   Council/Regional
due to crossing pipelines route or representatives  when  siting  Water   Board      in
well siting.                    facilities.   Private   property  collaboration  with  Water
should be avoided at any cost Committees
but compensation should be
paid for unexpected loss or
damage/loss to property during
construction.
Water pollution from pit latrines due  Locate the wells at reasonable  Contractor monitored by a
to bore hole/shallow wells being too  distance from  settlement (not Supervision  Engineer  in
close to human settlements.      less than 50 m, but depending  collaboration  with  Village
on soil condition).          Water Committees.
43



POTENTIAL IMPACTS               MITIGATION MEASURES          ACTORS
Fence off the boreholes or Contractor monitored  by
shallow well sites to prevent Supervision  Engineer  in
encroachment by people due to  collaboration  with Village
settlement expansion. The area  Water Committees
should be declared protected
under village by-laws
Occupational health & safety of Contractor    should     be  Contractor monitored by a
workers during construction     responsible for health & safety  Supervision Engineer.
of workers.
Only trained personnel should
be   allowed   to   operate
equipment on-site.
There should be qualified
person to administer first aide
on-site.
Increased  incidence of STD  &  Awareness    &    education  Health   Committee   in
HIV/AIDS  due  to  construction  campaigns on STD and HIV to  Collaboration with Village
workforce in the village.       sensitize the local community.   Dispensary/MCH staff.
Limit the number of workforce  Contractor in collaboration
to technical & skilled labor only. with  Village  government
The rest of workforce should  and Supervision Engineer
come    from    the   rural
communities.
Locate the construction camp
far away from the village
settlement.
B. Community impacts
Bush fires & tree felling by local Enforce by-laws to discourage  Village  government and
community around water sources  bush  fires  around   water District councils
and upper catchment.            sources and catchment areas
and discourage the use of fires
for clearing agricultural lands
The   use   of   alternative  Water   Committees  in
construction   materials  and  collaboration  with  local
efficient charcoal stove (Jiko  NGOs, CBOs, etc.
Bora) should be promoted to
minimize tree felling and fuel
wood consumption.
Initiate    education  and
environmental awareness.
Accumulation of wastewater around  People should be discouraged  Village   government  in
well sites or standpipes due to  from washing or bathing close  collaboration with Village
people washing or bathing close to  to the well sites or stand pipes water Committees.
the water sources, hence  into  though enforcement of by-laws.
potential  breeding   sites  for The stand pipes or hand pump  Contractor  and   Design
mosquitoes.                     shallow   wells  should  be  Engineers in collaboration
constructed with concrete pads with    Village    Water
and drainage to carry spilled  Committees.
water into soakways. If possible
the water should be used for
gardening and trees should be
planted around the area.
44



POTENTIAL IMPACTS               MITIGATION MEASURES         ACTORS
Spontaneous growth of algae and  Storage tanks and reservoirs  Contractor  and   Design
other waterweeds in open storage  should be well designed and  Engineers
tanks  or  reservoirs  due  to  covered to restrict growth of
temperature  and  exposure  to  algae and waterweeds.
sunlight.                       Storage  tanks  should  be  Water   Committees  in
subject to periodic cleaning  collaboration with Trained
during operation.           personnel
Contamination of water in Ring  Ring Wells should be designed  Contractor  and   Design
Wells due to poor water handling  and constructed by raising them  Engineers.
and use of dirty containers people  at leastl m above the ground to
fetching  or by  surface  run-off prevent surface run-off from
entering the Well during rainfalls.    entering the Well.
Boiling of drinking water should  Village   Government  in
be promoted through hygiene  collaboration  with Village
education                   Water Committees.
People should be encouraged
to  use  only  appropriate
containers for taking water from
the Wells and should be kept
safely on-site.
Encroachment to well sites and  Fencing off and demarcating  Village   Government  in
open  water  sources  due  to  boundaries.                  collaboration  with  Water
expansion of human settlement and                           Committees.
farmlands                       The site should be declared
protected area under village by-
laws.
Pollution of open water sources due  Waters in storage tanks and  Trained   personnel
to human activities and trampling by  reservoirs should be treated by appointed by village water
wild animals.                   chlorination                committee.
Drinking  water  should  be  Household members
boiled.
People should be encouraged  Village  Governments  in
to boil drinking water and use  collaboration with Water or
pit latrines through education  Environmental Committees.
and enforcement of by-laws.
Damage  to  pipelines by  local The right of way (RoW) should  Village   government  in
people  during  cultivation  and  be declared for the pipeline  collaboration with Water or
planting crops with deep rooting  routes and by-laws established  Environment Committees
systems along pipeline route.  to  prevent  people  from
cultivation along the RoW.
Pipelines should be submerged  Contractor.
below  the  ground  at  an
appropriate depth.
6.2    Training Plan
In developing EA training plan the consultant has tried to consider training
needs at various levels. These include village levels, district level, regional
and national levels. The training needs assessment has taken into
45



consideration the on going policy and institutional changes, and the
importance of private sector participation into the project.
The training programme will focus on the relationship between water
resource, environment and sanitation & hygiene. Indeed environment will
be a central and crosscutting issue to as water and other sectors such as
sanitation & health, forestry, fisheries, agriculture and wildlife. Again, to
ensure successful implementation of environmental mitigation plans the target
groups will be exposed to existing policies, legislation & regulations as well as
by-laws related to environment at all levels. Besides that to ensure
sustainability  of the  project the training  will also  involve financial,
managerial/or administrative skills for village government leaders and their
committees as well as Youths & Women Economic Groups.
So that the training programme can be effective, the consultant proposes a
SMART approach. That is, training programme should be Specific in its
contents, with Measurable out put, Achievable objectives and/or goals,
Realistic in local context and should be delivered within a certain Time frame.
The Programme should ensure that awareness campaign, training and public
education is provided to cover all stakeholders, especially the water users at
community levels.
(a)   Training Contents
Specifically, the contents of the training course shall include, but not limited to:
*  Environmental monitoring and sanitary survey techniques, including filling
in data sheets.
, Drinking water treatment methods using simple techniques and locally
available materials.
* Existing policies, legislation, regulations and by-laws pertaining to
environment and water resource management.
* Construction of VIP latrines and wastewater disposal chambers by using
cheap and locally available materials, especially the local artisans. The
local artisans will be provided with instructional manuals.
*  Relationship between land degradation (vegetation) and water resource
availability (quantity) and quality, with emphasis on hydrological cycles.
*  Effect of water pollution on human health & poverty with emphasis on the
relationship between poor sanitation & hygiene conditions and prevalence
of waterborne & sanitary related diseases.
* Environmental conservation techniques and the importance of alternative
sources of energy and construction materials.
46



* Solid waste & wastewater management methods (e.g. treatment &
recycling of garden waste as a soil conditioner and/or use of wastewater
for gardening purpose).
* Financial and managerial skills, especially the Village Government
leaders, Village water committees, Youth & Women economic Groups.
(b)   Training methods & materials
The methodology should involve case studies, site visits and general
awareness campaigns. The training materials at community level shall include
posters, pamphlets, theatres and video shows, etc.
(c)   Time frame
The training Programme shall proceed in three stages, whereby Stage I shall
start with sector expertise at the district level (e.g. District Natural Resource
Officers) and Local artisans (VIP latrines). The implementers of the
programme at this stage shall involve local NGOs, Private Consultants and/or
Relevant Institutions. This is expected to take at least two weeks. The
expected output shall be the trained expertise as Trainers of trainers, who
shall be training representatives of Youth & Women Groups (Economic
Groups), and various Village Committees, especially the Village Water &
Sanitation Committees in Stage 11. The output shall be the Trained
Representatives from Village Committees, Youths & Women Groups and
Local artisans. The training programme is expected to start 6 months before
project implementation and will take at least three (3) weeks to complete.
In Stage Ill the programme will involve the rural communities in general. The
training shall take off during project implementation and become a continuos
process as on-the job training, assisted by trained groups. At this stage, the
programme will be a form of more or less awareness and education
campaigns to mobilize the rural people in incorporating environmental
sanitation & hygiene issues in their daily life.
Finally, there shall be a periodic follow-up to evaluate the effectiveness of the
training programme. This shall be done by qualified local consultants dealing
with Environment and Socio-economic issues. The consultants shall provide a
feedback to the responsible authorities at community (Village government),
district (District council) and national levels (MWLD). The proposed training
plan is summarized in Table 3.
47



TABLE 3: PROPOSED TRAINING PLAN
STAGES       TARGET GROUP            IMPLEMENTERS           CONTENTS                       TIMING            DURATION    OUTPUT
STAGE I      Sector   expertise   at Qualified local NGOs, Environmental monitoring and    12 months before
District level (e.g. District Private Consultants &  sanitary survey techniques.  project starts.
Natural      Resource  related Institutions.
Officers).
Existing policies, legislation
regulations and by-laws.
Environmental degradation and
water resources availability
Water pollution on human health:
prevalence of water borne &
sanitary diseases.
Environmental     conservation
techniques.
Treatment of drinking water.
Solid   waste   &   wastewater
management methods.
STAGE II    Representatives from:    Sector expertise       As above
- Youth  &    Women
Groups
- Village committee.
- Village Members
Representatives from:   Local NGO dealing with  Construction of VIP latrines and    6 months before  3 weeks  Trained
- Youth &      Women  promotion   of   VIP  wastewater disposal chambers    project                           representativ
Groups                 latrines.               using cheap and locally available                              es
- Village committee.                           materials.
- Village Members
- Local artisans        Financial and Business  Financial and Managerial or
Institutions          Administrative skills.
STAGE III    Rural  communities  in  Sector  expertise  in  Trained   groups  from   rural During    project Continuous    Increased
general.                collaboration    with  community involved in awareness  implementation                awareness
Water &  Environment &   education  campaigns  on  after                             on
Committees.           environment, sanitation & hygiene  commissioning               environment,
promotion.                                                     sanitation &
hygiene
matters.
48



7.0  ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND CHECKLIST OF MONITORING
INDICATORS
7.1   Monitoring Plan
In developing monitoring plan, the consultant has taken into consideration the
nature of environmental impacts. There are those impacts that originate from
the project activities and those from the community actions. In that case,
monitoring should cover both the project and community activities.
The objective of developing a monitoring plan is to ensure that the proposed
mitigation measures are properly followed and whether they are effective. The
purpose should be to identify unforeseen negative impacts during and after
the project implementation.
During monitoring, attention should be put on the contractor's behavior and/or
activities on-site. This is to ensure that the contractor follows the proposed
mitigation measures. The following issues should be considered during
project implementation:
* Natural landscape: The natural landscape should be preserved as much
as possible by limiting the operation on-site. Unless otherwise required for
installation of campsite or dumps, all trees, shrubs should be protected
from unnecessary damage.
* Restoration of landscape: This should be done by replanting or
reseeding to prevent further damage due to potential soil erosion. Again,
restoration should be done according to ecological design to provide
opportunity for lost natural habitat to be recovered.
* Contractor's facilities on-site: The sitting/location of contractor's
facilities like labor camp and warehouse should be planned. This will help
to decide a scenic quality of an area after construction is complete. The
facilities should be located in such a way that the natural environment is
maintained.
* After use possibility: the labor camps and other buildings should be
considered for future use by the local community whenever possible. For
example, the village water committees or village government can utilize a
building as an office, if it can be foreseen before. However, if after use is
not possible the facilities should be demolished and the area be restored
to its quasi-original state/condition.
* Location of labor campsite: the labor camp should be located far from
village settlement and fenced off from the surrounding areas. In those
areas with frequent bush fires, a campsite should be surrounded by a
buffer zone to avoid damage to the camp due accidental fires.
49



* Accidental spillage & leakage: The contractor should avoid or minimize
spillage of contaminants, debris or other pollutants, especially into natural
streams/rivers or ground water sources. This also includes sanitary
wastes, tailings, petroleum products, drilling chemicals, biocides, mineral
salts, etc.
. Waste disposal: The contractor should make sure waste materials
disposed by burial do not contaminate ground water supplies.
* Community participation: The local community, especially the water
committees should participate in monitoring and that should be specified in
the contract document.
7.2   Monitoring Indicators
The environmental issues to be monitored are those related to RWSS Project.
In general, they should relate to water resource availability (quantity) and
quality, sanitation & hygiene conditions. The checklist of monitoring indicators
for different community sub-projects is shown in Table 4.
However, it should be borne in mind that issues contained in the checklist are
not exhaustive. That means more issues can be added as much as possible
depending on a local environment and type of community sub-project. The
Consultant proposes that the checklists should be used as a guideline for
monitoring to rural water supply & sanitation schemes.
TABLE 4: CHECKLIST OF MONITORING INDICATORS
MONITORING INDICATORS            POTENTIAL COMMUNITY SUB-
PROJECTS
HPSW    RW      PS/MDW   PSW
Distance of well site from sanitary
facilities and other contaminants such 4   4      4
as pit latrines, burial sites, etc.
The condition of the pump base,
whether loose or not              4
Presence of human wastes and other
contaminants around well sites.   4        4      4
Presence  of standing  wastewater
around/close to well site or standpipes 4  4      4          4
that may create breeding site for
mosquitoes.
Presence of drainage channels that
leads run-off to the well site, hence 4    4      4
leading into possible ground water
contaminaton.
On-going human activities within the
well site/stand pipes (e.g. washing 4      4      4          4
clothes or bathing).
50



MONITORING INDICATORS             POTENTIAL COMMUNITY SUB-
PROJECTS
Presence of bad/rotting smell or odor in
water   from    well,      storage                   4         4
tanks/reservoirs
Method of drawing water from wells and
type containers being used by local          4
people to draw water from a well.
Encroachment of human settlement to
well sites (estimate distance).    4         4       4
Changes in ground water levels &
quality (estimate re-charge rates &  4       4       4
salinity).
Incidence of bush fires and other
human activities on upper catchment                            4
and around water sources that may
lead into vegetation destruction            _
Prevalence of water bome and sanitary
related diseases (human health) among
the local community, especially children
less than 5 years.
51



APPENDIX I:      REFERENCES
Baumann & Lymo, B. (2000). Tanzania Supply Chain Study Report. Skat,
Switzerland & Serviceplan Ltd, Tanzania.
Bj0rnstad, (2000). Environmental Impact Assessment in Tanzania.
Assessment and Proposed Guidelines for Water related Project. Ministry of
Water-River Basin Management & NORPLAN.
Bj0rnstad, (2000). Water Quality Standards. Assessment and Proposal for
Revision
Conyers, D, Ayo J.N., Luoga, D.O. 1971. Agro-economic zones of Coast and
Morogoro Region. Research Report No. 48. Bureau of Resource Assessment
and Land use Planning.
IRA/IIED, (1995). Environmental Assessment in Tanzania. A needs
Assessment for Training.
Mercier, Jean-Roger, (1995). Environmental Assessment and Review in Sub-
Saharan Africa. An Africa Region/World Bank Respective. Environmentally
Sustainable Development Division. Africa Technical Department (AFTES).
The World Bank.
MLHSD, (1997). National Land Policy. The United Republic of Tanzania.
MMK Project Services Ltd. (1999). Rural Water Supply Review in three Pilot
District.
Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Learning and Innovation Loan - LIL
MOW, (1999). The United Republic of Tanzania. Rural Water Supply &
Sanitation  (Learning  and  Innovation).  Loan  (LIL-RWSSP).  Draft
Implementation Manual.
MOW, (2000). Draft National Water Policy. The United Republic of Tanzania
Mwalyosi R. & Hughes, R. (1998). The Performance of EIA in Tanzania. An
Assessment. IRA Research Paper No. 41. IIED Environmental Planning
Issues No. 14.
NORPLAN, (2000). Review of Water Resource Management Policy
Legislation and Institutional Frameworks. Final Report. Ministry of Water
United Republic of Tanzania
TANAPA (1994). National Policies for National Parks in Tanzania. Tanzania
National Parks. March, 1994 66pp.
TANAPA (1993). Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure and
Screening Guidelines. Tanzania National Parks, Arusha.
52



The Land Act, (1999). The United Republic of Tanzania Act Supplement No. 6
21 of May 1999. Gazette of the United Republic of Tanzania No. 21, Vol. 80
The Village Land Act, (1999). The United Republic of Tanzania. Act
Supplement No. 7 of 21st May 1999. Gazette of the United Republic of
Tanzania No. 27, Vol. 80
Water Laws (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act. Gazette of the United
Republic of Tanzania. No. 16 Vol. 80, Dar Es Salaam16 April 1999
World Bank Operational Manual. Operational Directive (OD.4.00 Annex A).
October 1989.
TANAPA Planning Unit (1994). Management Zone Plan: Tarangire National
Park. Environmental Impact Assessment. Prepared for Tanzania National
Parks (TANAPA).
53



APPENDIX II:    SUMMARY OF VILLAGE BASELINE INFORMATION
1.   Demography
The total population for the study village is estimated at 27,971. Based on the
existing household data (Table 1), the average number of persons per
household is estimated to be 6.2. By using those estimates, the household
size in the project area can be said to be higher than that of the district level
(i.e. 5.2 per household).
2.   Social Services
(i)   Education
By looking at school enrolment data (Table 2), one can get an impression
about the status of education in the project area. For example, out of nine
studied villages four of them do not have a primary school. The rate of school
enrolment in terms number of pupils per household is also low. As shown in
the table the enrolment ratio is less than one by enrolment ratio of less than
one indicating that some households do not send their children to school at
all.
In all study villages, the average enrolment ratio is 0.33, and for those village
having primary school the average enrolment ratio is 0.59. That means for the
whole project area 67% of households do not send their children to school;
and for those villages with primary school, about 41% of households do not
enroll their children for school. These estimates are based on the assumption
that for each household there must be at least one child of school age.
(ii)   Health
The field survey shows that out of eight villages only two of them have no
dispensary (Table 3). However, in those villages with dispensaries lack of
medicine and inadequate staff is still a constraint.
According to the villagers, the most prevalent water borne and sanitary related
diseases include malaria followed by diarrhea, skin infection, intestinal worms
and respiratory infection (Table 3). But report by District Medical Officer from
Ruwe village shows malaria as the most prevalent diseases in children under
5 years of age, followed by pneumonia, AR12, trachoma, diarrhea, intestinal
worms and skin infection (Table 4). In Kimbuga village malaria was most
prevalent for children below 5 years, followed by pneumonia, ARI, trachoma,
diarrhea, intestinal worms and skin-infections (Table 5).
2ARI = Acute Respiratory Infection.
55



(iii) Transport
The major means of transport in all villages is bicycle and walking. The road
network is not well developed in most of the village. During dry seasons some
village roads become impassable by vehicles.
(iv)  Energy
The main source of energy in all villages is fuel wood and charcoal for cooking
and kerosene for lighting during the night.
3.   Land use and Land tenure
The land is predominantly used for agriculture in all villages and ownership is
by individuals on permanent basis, although the village government controls
land allocation. In some villages, there is a problem of land use and resource
use conflicts. For example, at Kilimani village there is a conflict between the
villagers and Selous game reserve. The villagers do not know the clear
boundaries between the village land and Selous Game reserve.
According to villagers, people usually do fishing in Lake Utunge but they find
themselves being arrested and fined by the Selous Game Reserve
authorities. Again, the Natural Resource Department in the District does not
assist the villagers in protecting their crops against wild animals such as
elephants, monkeys and wild pigs.
4.   Water supply & uses
The problem of water supply is acute in most of the villages in the project
area. For example, at Chumbi, they had 2Nos ring wells and three pumping
schemes, but the ring wells dry up during dry seasons and the pumping
scheme is not working because the machine has been stolen. So they depend
on traditional wells and the Muhoro stream but the sources are not safe and
far from the village. They also claim water from traditional wells is saline.
The Kilimani village had one hand pump shallow well and 2nos. pumping
scheme but all of them are not working. Therefore they rely on traditional
wells and three small pond but they are far from village-about 2 km. The water
in these ponds and traditional well is not safe due to contamination by people
and animals.
In Bumba there is also another traditional well within the village but the yield is
very low in such a way that one has to spend 2 hours to fill a bucket of 201ts.
The water is also of poor quality and mixed with clay material, as indicated by
its color (gray). Alternatively, the people depend on other traditional wells
about 4 km from the village. However, the water is also of poor quality and
become saline during dry seasons. Again, although there are two ring wells in
56



the village, the sources are seasonal as they remain without water during dry
seasons.
There is one pumping scheme in Ruwe village but it is no longer working, and
therefore people have to depend on three traditional wells. However, they are
just seasonal.
Again, there is one hand pump shallow well, which was built and being
operated by mosque, through its own water committee. However, the source
is not adequate and people have to depend on an ox-bow near the village.
Unfortunately, the water from the lake is of poor quality and prone to
contamination, as people do wash and bath in the lake. Wild animals also
trample the water. During rainfalls, the pollution problem becomes more
acute, as human wastes and other pollutants are sent into the lake through
run-off.
The Jaribu Mpakani has 7Nos. Ring wells but locate far from the village
settlement, about 3-km away. Again, the villagers are using only on ring well
as water from other wells is not good due to salinity. Therefore, people
depend on two ponds at Kwa Njenje and Kigala. However, the water sources
are highly polluted, especially during rainfalls. The other potential source
could be the existing permanent stream at Kindete but the source is too far
and not safe due to contamination. There are also other two ponds at Nzumbe
and Nyang'ombe, but again they are far and not safe. To solve the problem
the villagers have suggested construction of one borehole with pumped
scheme.
The Nyamwage village has 5Nos. Ring wells, constructed by MECCO and
one pumped scheme but none of them is working. Therefore people depend
on seasonal traditional wells (8-10 ft) but they are far from the village, about 2-
km away. There are also seasonal ponds and a permanent stream  at
Makurunge, but again, the sources are very far, about 11 km from the village.
The Kimbuga villagers have
2Nos. Hand pump shallow   BOXI.
wells but the water is not
adequate so they have to  At  lnuga  Vilage pele c0mplsine.of
supplement with traditional . adequate....p-.They wee assite
b  UNICEF to buy. 2Nos.. hanpmps'.:nd
wells  and  lake  Rumiozi.  vll        lveiso-rb teQ 0  for
Nevertheless, the  sources  the constutk   *r-:halowr wels. Ote.r
are far from the village, about  cOitrIbon:. i  -mtiems of labor. anWha.*
8-12  km  away. However,  ofmate-altthse
solution to water problem is
being  addressed  by  the  Trl esure O&Mthe- villagerdededlto-pay
villager   through    own  If per -buckeIt o-2.0t 'According to  lagers
contribution and assistance  e   tS   yield i  m2       5 bucket of
from external donors (Box 1).  201tsp   a  Sc te  m   m  a-.of
mone,y pak1 is I 000th.tqey  ,n colble a6 est6
.3.0,00  per month or 50}00= per year.
57



5.   Willingness and Ability to Pay for Water
The willingness and ability to pay is shown by villagers' commitment and their
contribution towards the water fund (Table 6), as well as, rates being charged
per bucket of water. For example, in Chumbi village besides assistance from
donors, the people have decided to solve water problem through contribution
(Box 2). In this village, women have
shown willingness to contribute 1 001=           
for O& M. The village also has a water t                    . X
fund  in  a  bank  amounting  to
103,680/=.
At Jaribu  Mpakani the  villagers 4                        E
decided  to  contribute  200/=  per
household per month for water
scheme and 10/= per bucket for O&
M. According to villagers. The Jaribu
Mpakani water committee was initially 9
allocated 40,000/= by the village 
government to open bank account Up                5
to then the committee operates a bank i
account with 4004000/=.
In Nyamwage village the water
committee has mobilized people to
establish a water fund of 100,000/= i
through contribution of 20/= per
bucket of water.
At Ruwe village water is sold at 10/= per bucket of 201ts and average income
from selling water is between 1,500-2000/= per day. This is between 45,000-
60,000/= per month or 540,000-720,000/= per year.
6.   Sanitation & Hygiene
The majority of people in all ten villages have unlined pit latrines with
temporary walls made up coconut leaves or grass with opened roofs. In other
households, there are no pit latrines at all. The problem with pit latrines is
poor durability, as they tend to collapse and produce bad smell due to lack of
ventilation. Their walls being made of grass material are usually vulnerable to
attack by termites. The pit latrines are mainly used for disposal of human
waste, although some households them as latrines cum bath rooms.
In all villages visited households could not show where they dispose of their
wastewater from kitchen or water from washing clothes. Some villages have
taken initiative to enforce by-laws to make sure people build their pit latrines.
For example, in Ruwe village there is a by-law that requires every household
to build a pit latrine. Those who contravene the law are fined up to 2000/=
58



Most of the people do not boil drinking water and they give a wide range of
reasons. These include:
*  Lack of enough fire wood (e.g. Kilimani)
*  It is wastage of time (e.g. Kilimani) or time consuming exercise (e.g. Jaribu
Mpakani).
*  Boiled water is tasteless and cannot quench thirst (e.g. Ruwe, Kilimani)
*  It is not their tradition (e.g. Kilimani) or they are not used to the habit (e.g.
Chumbi).
* Boiling will reduce quantity of water (e.g. Nyamwage, Bumba)
Again, the some people in the project are (E.g. Kilimani) could not associate
prevalence of water borne diseases taking drinking water without boiling.
According to their views/beliefs, drinking water without boiling cannot cause
diseases. The most prevalent water borne and sanitary related diseases
include malaria, diarrhea, eye infection, skin infection, etc (Table
7.   Institutional set-up
The institutional set-up for all villages is almost similar, whereby there is a
Village Government (VG) headed by the Village Chairman (VC). The Village
Executive Officer (VEO) and Hamlet (sub-village) Leaders (HLs) assist the
VC. Under the VG there are three main committees followed by sub-
committees. The main committees are:
* Finance, Economy & Planning.
* Defense & Security
X Construction & Social Services.
The water, health, education and production committees fall under the
Construction & Social service committee. However, there are some variations
in sub-committee formation depending on the requirement of a given village
(Table 7). The gender representation is not even nearly in all villages,
whereby women participation is very low (Table 7). However, in water
committee there is equal gender representation nearly in all villages.
The available skills in the villages include masons, carpenters, few mechanics
and few retired civil servants. Generally, skills availability for 0 & M of water
supply schemes is low in all villages.
8.   Economic Groups
There is only one youth group in Kilimani village, otherwise the community in
most villages do not have economic groups. However, even the existing group
at Kilimani is faced by some problems (Box 3).
59



9.   Source of Revenue              X               X
The main source of revenue is k k   
tax and fees collected from     oi
sells and other, farm products. ~&;
Other sources include forest    i    4            H i            i
products such as, charcoal 
and timber.
10.  Donor Funded Projects               ~
In Kilimani village there is a                               >
road project under the District ar
Council known as District
Roads Development Project (DRDP). The local communities have benefited
from the project in terms of improved communication and employment for
youths in the village. However, the project has resulted into environmental
degradation due to creation of several borrow pits and vegetation destruction
in the area. Borrow pits have become potential breeding grounds for
mosquitoes. These borrow pits may be beneficial to the wild life, but the fact
that they are located near village settlement is a problem because they can
attract wild animals. Some of the wild animals are dangerous to human life
and others can destroy crops. This kind of induced migration of animals from
their natural habitat is not ecologically proper due its negative impacts on
animal life.
11.  Village funded Projects
The village-funded projects are very few probably due to low revenue base of
the most villages. However, in Jaribu Mpakani there is one project dealing
with Construction of Health Center, Primary School toilet and nursery school.
12.  Natural Disasters
Flood hazards are common in those villages located in the flood plain and
close to the delta zone. The problem of food shortage is also chronic in the
majority of villages in the district.
13.  Common Problems
13.1  Institutional
(i)   School
* Villagers are not involved in school committees plans.
* Contributions needed by school leadership are too high.
* Classrooms are not repaired and not adequate.
60



(ii)   Water Committee
* Water committee is not responsible in making follow-up when there is
shortage of water.
(iii)  Village Government
* Villagers are not involved in identifying village boundaries. This leads to
conflict in resource use such as land, forest and game reserve (e.g.
Utunge).
* Villagers are not satisfied with the way village government resolves water
problems.
* The village government does not fully involve the villagers in sanitation &
hygiene education
13.2  Water supply & Quality
The problem with water
supply  in  most  villages   BOX      - 
includes, salinity, pollution by -
human beings and animals,              p    I       talnef f ta f
lack of accessibility due to   Pra <a,  id tat  n  pmp i        an.
Iong distances.                                     tooe L Qgy due lomu  eney
set .i.n pul- M,:O,   terl Frequent breakdown
contrilp to r    Mb Xas alomo ney W.
In some villages, Hand pump          spoee j6mt  es  t  avaab1 
shallow wells were found to                      ra
be   close   to   human
settlements, hence creating possibility of ground water pollution from pit
latrines. In Utunge, destruction  of piped distribution systems due to
agricultural activities, inappropriate hand pump technology and lack of spare
parts has been noted to be a problem (Box 4).
For example in Chumbi,
village people depend on  BOX 5-, -
2Nos.   ring    wells,
traditional wells and the  [if 8Bui g WI o pto    deP-  ondiIon
Muhoro         stream.  W -tb4 km :H walso one tradiwelt
in.t 0 b-   'vety w    Un s   away tahtit
However, water in the  tt
ring wells and traditional  the, wr.s not sa  om  oitio because tXe
wells is not adequate  trodioal wags' are; o   te  The  are Iwo Ai:
and    the    problem   wells- but ter ;ii- emipt;rn;yess
becomes more acute in I                       DWD hasronjsedrill
dry seasons. According to the villagers the water in the ring and traditional
wells are also not good due to salinity. The Muhoro stream could be another
potential source, but it is far from village.
61



The problem of water shortage has been reported to be more acute in Bumba
village (Box 5).
In Kilimani, people depend on 3Nos. Traditional wells, lNo. Hand pump
shallow well at the Mosque and three small ponds about 2 km away from the
village. However, they are temporary as they usually dry up during dry
seasons. Water from the pond is prone to pollution by wild animals and
human activities as people do wash and take bath in the pond. During rainy
seasons, the pollutants such as human and animal wastes are brought into
the pond through surface-run-off.
Site investigation at Utunge village shows water in an ox-bow lake is very
turbid due to trampling by wild animals and human being,. The presence of
algae and waterweeds is also a sign of water pollution, possibly nitrogenous
pollutants. Other source of pollution is from people washing and bathing in
the lake. Being an open water body the lake is easily polluted during rainfalls
by sediments from surface run-off. The sustainability of the water source is
also threatened by vegetation destruction around the lake and on the upper
catchment. However, villagers claim the water is not saline and thus good for
domestic purpose.
13.3  Environment
The most common environmental problems in the project area include tree
felling, bush fires because of animal hunting and land clearing for cultivation.
Other problem is pollution of water sources due to washing and bathing in or
around water sources (e.g. rivers, streams, ponds and lakes).
CONCLUSION & RECOMMENDATIONS
(a)   Water Supply & Quality
The surface water sources are generally prone to contamination by human
activities animals. For those villages with ground water sources, most of them
are not good for domestic purpose due to salinity.
It is recommended that:
*    Site investigation should be carried to identify new sources and build
pumped scheme boreholes.
*    The existing distribution networks should be rehabilitated.
*    Traditional shallow wells should be converted into Hand pump shallow
wells.
*    Embankments should be built around ox-bow lakes, ponds and other
water bodies to prevent incoming run-off during rainfalls.
62



*    By-laws should be enacted and enforced to restrict people from
washing and bathing in or near the water sources and trees should be
planted around them.
(b)   Sanitation & Hygiene
Generally, the sanitation & hygiene condition in the villages is not good as
most of them still do not have durable pit latrines and do not boil drinking
water at all. The lack of financial capability and technical know how has been
stated as a major constraint. However, inability to boil drinking water can be
said to be mainly due to ignorance. To improve the sanitation & hygiene
condition in the project area it is recommended that:
Local people should be trained on the construction of VIP latrines by
using cheap and locally available materials (e.g. cement + red soils or
lime + red soils). The primary school teachers could be used as
resource persons to conduct training since they already have
knowledge about VIP.
Hygiene education should be intensified to create awareness among
the villagers on the importance of boiling drinking water and other
hygiene practice.
*    The village government and their committees should be trained on
sanitation, hygiene and environmental issues, so that they can train the
villagers.
The adult education should be initiated so that hygiene, sanitation and
environmental issues are incorporated into the adult education
curriculum. In addition, financial & managerial skills can be
incorporated into the adult education classes.
(c)   Environmental degradation
The problem of environmental degradation is mainly caused by community
activities. This jeopardizes the sustainability of water resource in the project
area. In order to reverse the trend it is recommended that:
Villagers should be sensitized and made aware of the importance of
protecting water sources from pollution.
*    Cutting trees around water sources should be discouraged though
enforcement of village by-laws. The area should be fenced off and
declared a village controlled area, and trespassers should be
prosecuted under the village by-laws.
*    Tree planting should be promoted, especially fruit bearing trees so that
people can get multiple benefit. The local people should be trained in
the preparation of tree nurseries.
63



Alternative source of energy and construction materials such as
cement plus red soil should be promoted to minimize tree felling. The
use of efficient charcoal stove like that developed by Tatedo (local
NGO).
Table 1: Poputation data for each village
No  Village         Population  Households  Average
I___            ___________             Per household
I   Jaribu Mpakani  3793       600          6.3
2    Utunge         2000       400          5.0
3    Kimbuga        3062       402          7.6
4    Kilimani       3791       800          4.7
5    Bumba          1046       200          5.2
6    Ruwe           2079       400          5.1
7    Nyamwage       2640       330          8.0
8    Chumbi         3380       560          7.9
9    Mloka          2983
10   Mtawanya       2149         _
X___ TOTAL         26,926
Note: * = Data could not be readily obtained during the study.
Table 2: School Enrolment
No    Village        No. of schools  Enrolment  Ratio
1      Jaribu Mpakani 1            408         0.68
2      Utunge         -            -           0.0
3      Kimbuga        1             327        0.81
4      Kilimani       1             300        0.38
5      Bumba          -             -          0.0
6      Ruwe           1             *
7      Nyamwage       1             175        0.53
8      Chumbi         1             320        0.57
9      Mloka         -             I           0.0
Table 3: Number of dispensaries and disease prevalence
DISPENSARIES    DISEASE PREVALENCE
No    Village          No. of Dispensary   Disease prevalence
1      Jaribu Mpakani   1                Diarrhea, Malaria
2      Utunge          1                 Malaria, Diarrhea
3      Kimbuga         1                 Malaria, Diarrhea
4      Kilimani                          Malaria, Diarrhea
Dysentery, Skin infection
Intestinal worms
5      Bumba
6      Ruwe            1                 Malaria, Diarrhea
7      Nyamwage                          Diarrhea, Malaria
8      Chumbi                            Malaria Diarrhea
Respiratory, Infection
64



Table 4:    Sanitation and Water Related Diseases for Children with age
below 5 ears in Ruwe Village
Disease       Jan   Feb        March     Apr       May        June
Malaria       69    133        62        86        69         41
ARI           11    26         18        12         7         5
Diarrhea      6     11         9         18        7          4
lnt. worms    13    9          6         14        0          5
Pneumonia    47    58          34        39        22         35
Trachoma      19    27         8         13         10        18
Skin infection  ,8  5          3         6         0          3
ARI = Acute Respiratory Infection
Table 5:    Sanitation and water related disease in children below 5 years age
in Kim buga village
Diseases         Jan     Feb.     March   Apr.       May       June
Malaria          139    91        66        62       86        89
Bronchitis       47      17       34        66       33        20
Diarrhea         17      15       27        22       17        13
Worms            9       2        2         3        2         1
Trachoma         14      26       19        1 1      17        42
Skin disease     4       2        3         4        4         8
Schistosomiasis  -       -        -         -        -         -
Anemia           3       2        2         4        5         3
Table 6:    Water Committee & Water Fund Contributions
VILLAGE      MEMBERS        GENDER              WATER FUND
MEN    WOMEN
1.  Jaribu        10             5         5         40,000/=
Mpakani
2.   Utunge       -              -         -
3.   Kimbuga      8              4         4          430,000/=
4.   Kilimani     6              3         3
5.   Bumba        -              -         -
6.   Ruwe         10             5         5          130,000/=
7.   Nyamwage   8                4         4          100,000/=
8.   Chumbi       9              6         3          103,680/=
65



Table 7:   Gender representation in various committees
VILLAGE           COMMITTEES               GENDER
REPRESENTATION
MEM WOMEN WOMEN
BER
S
UTUNGE            Finance,   Economy   & 25    21          4
Planning
Defense & Security       *
Construction   &   Social *
Services                                            l
Water                    *
Health                                              l
Education                *
KIMBUGA           Finance,   Economy   &  5       5        -
Planning
Defense & Security       5      4        1
Construction   &   Social 5     3        2
Services
Water                    8      4        4
Health                   5      4        1
School
JARIBU MPAKANI Finance,   Economy   & 8           6        2
Planning
Defense & Security       8      6        2
Construction   &   Social 8     6        2
Services                                            I
Water                     10    5        5
Education & Social Service  8   6        2
Production               5      4        1
Health                   10    5         5
CHUMBI            Finance,   Economy   &  8       5        3
Planning
Defense & Security       9      6        3
Education & Social Service  8   6        2
Health                   8      4        4
Water                    8      4        4
KILIMANI          Finance,   Economy   &
Planning
Defense & Security
Construction   &   Social *
Service
Water                    3      3        6
Health
School                   *
NYAMWAGE          Finance,   Economy   & 7        5        2
I Planning               I      I        I
66



VILLAGE           COMMITTEES                GENDER
REPRESENTATION
Defense & Security        5     3         2
Education & Social Service  7   6         1
Water                     8     4         4
BUMBA             Finance & Planning
Construction              *
Defense & Security
Water                     *
School                    na
Health                    na
RUWE              Finance & Planning        *
Defense & Security        *
School                    _
Health                                              1
Water                     10    5         5
Note:   * = Membership of these committees could not be easily established
during the survey. na = these committees are stated in the village
government structure but are not active.
67



APPENDIX III:   WATER SUPPLY STATUS FOR TEN SELECTED VILLAGES
OF RUFIJI DISTRICT
No  Village       Type      of  Functioning   Non-function    Other sources
Scheme
1.   Kimbuga      Hand pump 3  2               1                Traditional well and
Nos.                                         lake Rumiozi-8-12 km
from village
2.   Bumba        Ring well 2  2               -
Nos.
3.   Mtawanya   Ring well 3  3                 -                Kindete stream, small
Nos.                                         pond at Nzumbe and
Nyang'ombe
4.   Jaribu       Ring well 7  7               -
Mpakani    Nos.
5.   Utunge       Hand pumps  3                -                Ox-bow    lake-1 km
3 Nos.                                        from village and Rufiji
river-2km away.
6.   Ruwe         Pump           -
scheme    1
No.
7.   Kilimani     Pumping                      2                3   Nos.  traditional
scheme                                       wells,  3Nos.  small
2 Nos.                                        ponds-2km      from
village, all of them
1 No. Hand                                   temporary.
Pump                                          1  No. hand  pump
shallow well                                  shallow well built by
Mosque
8.   Mloka        Mechanized    -               1
borehole   I
No.
9.   Chumbi       Ring well 2  2               3
Nos.
Pumping
scheme    3
Nos.
10.  Nyamwage  Pumping              _          1                Traditional wells-3km
scheme                                       from    village,   a
1 Nos.                                       permanent pond  at
makurunge-I1   km
from village.
68



APPENDIX IV:    WATER QUALITY DATA FOR SOME SELECTED VILLAGES
OF RUFIJI DISTRICT
Parameters
Village        Physical                            Chemical mg/L
1.  BUMBA           Turbidity      20 J.T.U            Calcium            2.4
Color          70 mg               Magnesiumn         0.2
Sediments      Nil                 Permanganate   + 5.5
Value EO minutes
boiling     using
_______________    N/SoKMnO4
pH             6.5                 Ammoniac Nitrogen  0.095
Conductivity at 36/37 Micromhos/cm   Nitrogen NO3     0.03
250C
Iron              0.40
Chloride          9.1
=                                         ~~~~~~~~    ~     ~~~~~~~~~~Fluoride  Nil
2.  JARIBU MPAKANI
Turbidity      60 J.T.U            Alkalinity         CACO3
Sediments      0.01 ml/l           Phenolphthalein    Nil
Color          80 mg PtVL          Total Hardness (as 66.0
CaCo3)
pH             7.0
Conductivity at 220 micromhos/cm    Carbonate         66.0
250C
Non-Carbonate     2.0
Total             68.0
Calcium           24.0
Magnesium         1.9
Permanganate      4.0
Value of minute
boiling using N/80
KMnO4) -4.0
Ammoniacal        0.4
Nitrogen
Nitrite Nitrogen  0.002
Nitrogen NO3      0.08
Iron              0.28
Sodium            18.4
Potassium         9.8
Chloride          25.5
=__                                                     Fluoride           Nil
._        _ Total filtrate solids   180
Total  suspended  10
____                                                    solids
3.  KILIMANI
Turbidity      5 J.T.U             Alkalinity         CaCO3
Sediments      0.01 m/             Phenolphthalein    Nil
Color          20 mg/I             Total              245.0
pH             7.4                 Hardness           CaCO3
Conducting  at 7.65 micromhos/cm    Carbonate         182.2
25°C
69



Non-Carbonate     Nil
Total             182.2
Calcium           55.0
Magnesiun         15.6
Permanganate     4.2
Value (10 minutes
boil  using  N/80
KMnO4
Ammoniacal        0.003
Nitrogen
Nitrogen NO3      0.17
= ____________                                    Iron              2.10
Sodium            90.8
Potassium         6.8
_ Chloride           Nil
Total    filterable 380
solids
Total  suspended 20
solids
4.  KIMBUGA        ____    _____  _________
4= KI      A       Turbidity      30 J.T.U            Alkalinity        CaCO3
Sediments      Nil                Phenolphthalein    51.0
Color          80 mg ptIl         Total             95.0
pH             8.5                Hardness          CaCO3
Conducting  at 1410 Micromhos /cm   Carbonate       95.0
250C
Non Carbonate     169.6
Total             264.6
Calcium           78.4
Magnesiim         16.7
Permanganate      22
Value (10 minutes
boiling    using
N/8OKmnO4
Ammoniacal        0.12
Nitrogen
Nitrate Nitrogen  Nil
=__                                __________________   Nitrogen  NO3    2.4
Iron              2.5
Sodium            172
.5
Potassium         17.2
Sulphate          1
Chloride          363.0
Fluoride          Nil
Total    filterable 1030
solids
Total  Suspended Nil
solids
5.  MLOKA
=                   Turbidity      84 J.T.U            Alkalinity       CaCo3
Sediments      Nil mVi            Phenolphthalein    Nil
70



Color          Mg pt/l            Total             154.0
Conductivity at 7.5               Hardness          CaCo3
250C
385 micromhos/cm    Carbonate        50.0
Non-carbonate     Nil
Total             50.0
Calcium           12.4
Magnesium         4.6
Permanganate      2
Value (10 minutes
boiling    using
N/80KMnO4)
Ammoniacal        0.03
Nitrogen
Nitrite           0.011
Nitrogen NO3      0.03
Iron              3.65
Sodium            610
Potassium         4.7
Chloride          17.2
____     ______________                                Fluoride          0.32
Total    filterable 230
solids
Total  suspended  10
solids
6.  MTAWANYA
Turbidity      325 J.T.U          Alkalinity        CaCo3
Color 500 mg                      Phenolphthalein    Nil
pt/I
pH             7.9                Total             Nil
Conductivity at 106 micromhos/cm    Hardness        CaCo3
250C
Total             21.6
Permanganate      1.4
value (10 minutes
boiling    using
N/80KmnO4
Ammoniacal        0.10
Nitrogen
Nitrogen NO3      0.89
Iron              1.5
_________________   Chloride          21.6
Fluoride          Nil
7. _ NYAMWAGE
- Source -
Lined
Turbidi        120 J.T.U          Hardness          CaCo3
Color          26 g pt/I          Total              15.6
pH             7.2                Permanganate       2.5
value (10 boiling
using N18KmnO4)
Conductivity  a  110 micromhos/cm    Ammoniacal     0.06
71



250C                               Nitrogen
Nitrogen NO3      0.03
Iron              4.65
Chloride          27.0
_____  ____________                 Fluoride          Nil
8.    RUWE
Source - Ring well
Turbidity      1 10 J.T.U          Alkalinity         CaCo3
Sediments      0.01 mUI/           Phenolphthalein    Nil
Color 90 mg pt/i  8.3              Total              95.9
Conductivity at 475 micromhos/cm    Hardness          CaCo3
250C
Carbonate         69.3
Non Carbonate     Nil
Total             69.3
Calcium           15.1
Magnesium         7.7
Permanganate      5.9
value (10 minutes
boiling     using
N/80 KmnO4)
Ammoniacal        0.11
Nitrogen
Nitrate    Nitrogen 0.011
NO3
Nitrogen NO3      0.26
Iron              5.55
Sodium            77.6
Potassium         9.0
Sulphate          88
Chloride          91.2
Fluoride          0.12
Total    filterable 470
solids
Total  suspended 70
solids
9.    UTUNGE NYANDA
Source    -
Ponds
Turbidity      150 J.T.U           Alkalinity as      CaCo3
Sediments      0.01 mI/l           Phenolphthalein    Nil
Color          105 mg pt/I         Total             61.8
.pH            7.0                 Hardness (as      CaCo3
Conductivity at 197 micromhos/cm    Carbonate         35.5
250C
Non-Carbonate -    Nil
Total             35.5
Calcium           10.0
MagnesiLin        2.6
Permanganate
value (10 minutes
boiling using N/80
72



KmnO4)
Ammoniacal        0.475
Nitrogen
Nitrite Nitrogen  0.002
Nitrogen NO3      0.08
Iron              1.55
Sodium            21.8
Potassium         11.1
Chloride          18.2
Fluoride          0.14
Total    filterable 126
solids
Total  suspended 80
solids
10.   CHUMBI (A,B &  C)
Source - River Mohoro
Turbidity      16 JTU              Alkalinity    (as
CaCo3)
Sediments      0.01 ml/l           Phenolphthalein    Nil
Color          10 mg pt/I          Total              153.4
pH             8.1                 Hardness      (as
CaCo3)
Conductivity at 935 micromhos/cm    Carbonate         153.4
25oC
Non- carbonate    10.9
Total             164.3
______________                     Calcium            39.2
Magnesium         16.1
Permanganate      5.2
value (10 minutes
boiling     using
N/80KmnO4)
Ammoniacal        0.0275
Nitrogen
Nitrate Nitrogen  0.002
Nitrogen NO-3     0.17
Iron              0.10
Sodium            131.0
Potassium         10.9
Chloride          185.8
Fluoride          0.20
Total filtrate solids  500
Total suspended  Nil
solids
73



APPENDIX V:    LIST OF AUTHORITIES CONTACTED DURING THE STUDY
NAME                         DESIGNATION
RUFIJI DISTRICT
F.Q. Fissoo                  DED-Rufiji
Mr. Mdimi                    DWE-Rufiji
T. Sosola                    WT-Rufiji
Mr. Mbaga                    Community       Development
officer (CDO)
Mr. Mwanuke                  Health officer
E.B. Chirwa                  Fisheries Officer
Juma Mkungura                Wildlife Officer
Mr. Nindai                   District  Natural   Resource
Officer
Mohamed Chande               Environmental Officer
Olivier Humerlyink           Chief   Technical   Advisor
(REMP)
RUWE VILLAGE
Shabani A. Mkumba            Village Executive Officer
Hamisi Kimbilu               Hamlet Chairman-Beta
Mbwana Mkinda                Member-Village Government
Salum Ali Mbinda             CCM-Chairman
Jamzia Athumani Mbinda       Member-Water committee
Sudi Ngagesa                 Member-Village government
Abdalah 0. Tanunagai          Member-Village government
Rajabu Lisora                Hamlet Chairman-Kipera
74



APPENDIX VI:  TERMS OF REFERENCE
75






APPENDIX VIl:  THE NAMES OF CONSULTANT'S TEAM MEMBERS
AND THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES
NAMES         QUALIFICATIONS    POSITION             RESPONSIBILITIES
1.  A.M.L. AKO    Environmental        EA Consultant    Conducting biophysical surveys.
Scientist                             Provide logistical support.
Team Leader &    Design & Preparation of Standard
Co-ordinator     survey forms.
Preparation of consolidated EA
report.
2.  Ms. Flora      Social Scientist     Field assistant    Conduct Socio-economic surveys
Preparation of questionnaires.
Organizing meetings with local
people.
Preparation of field report.
3.  Ngwisa        Environmental         Field assistant    Conduct biophysical surveys.
Engineer                              Collection of water samples.
Preparation of field report.
4.  Morgan         Environmental        Field assistant    Conduct biophysical surveys.
Engineer                              Collection of water samples.
Preparation of field report.
5.  1. Sosola     Water Technician      Field assistant    Identification of well sites.
______=_____    _=________________    _ _____________  Collection  of water samples.
__ LMr. Mwinuke   Health Officer        Field assistant    Collection of medical information.
6.  Mr. Mbaga    Community              Field assistant    Conduct socio-economic surveys.
Development Officer                   Organizing meetings with local
_= ___________  ___________________   ________________   people.
77



APPENDIX Vil  THE CONSULTANT'S CURRICULUM VITAE
78



