Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22875-TA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 20.8 MILLION (US$26.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR THE
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
February 21, 2002
Water and Urban I
Tanzania & Uganda Country Department
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 01, 2002)
Currency Unit = Tanzanian Shillings (TSH)
TSH I = US$ 0.001087
US$ I = TSH 920
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL                               Adaptable Program Loan
CAS                               Country Assistance Strategy
DC                                District Council
DWSP                               District Water and Sanitation Plan
DWST                               District Water and Sanitation Team
FARAH                             Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook
FMIS                              Financial Management Information System
FMR                               Financial Management reports
GOT                               Government of Tanzania
ICB                               International Competitive Bidding
IFMS                              Integrated Financial Management System
LIL                                Learning and Innovation Loan
NCB                               National Competitive Bidding
NGO                               Non Governmental Organization
NRWSSP                             National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Program
MIS                               Management Information System
MOU                               Memorandum of Understanding
MWLD                              Ministry of Water and Livestock Development
NWP                               National Water Policy
POM                               Project Operational Manual
PPA                               Project Preparation Advance
PRSP                              Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RWSD                              Rural Water Supply Division
RWSS                              Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
SIL                                Specific Investment Loan
SOE                                Statements of Expenditure
TA                                Technical Assistance
TASAF                             Tanzania Social Action Fund
VIP                               Ventilated Improved Pit
WATSAN                            Water and Sanitation Committee
Vice President         Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director       James W. Adams
Sector Manager         Jeffrey S. Racki
Task Team Leader       Alain R. Locussol



United Republic of Tanzania
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
CONTENTS
A. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE ..........................................................................  2
1. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE: ...................           ....................................................... 2
2. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ..........................................................................   2
B. STRA          TEGIC CON TEXT ..........................................................................   2
1. SECTOR-RELATED COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) GOAL SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT ......... 2
2. MAIN SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY .......................................................................... 2
3. SECTOR ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED BY THE PROJECT AND STRATEGIC CHOICES .............          .......................... 3
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY ..........................................................................    3
1. PROJECT COMPONENTS .......................................................................... 3
2. KEY POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS TO BE SOUGHT BY THE PROJECT ..............           ........................... 4
3. BENEFITS AND TARGET POPULATION ..................           ........................................................ 5
4. INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS ....................................................................... 5
D. PROJECTRATIONALE ..........................................................................               6
1. PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED AND REASONS FOR REJECTION .....................       ............................... 6
2. MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK AND/OR OTHER DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES ............ 6
3. LESSONS LEARNED AND REFLECTED IN PROPOSED PROJECT DESIGN ......................     ................................. 6
4. INDICATIONS OF BORROWER COMMITMENT AND OWNERSHIP ................................................................. 7
5. VALUE ADDED OF BANK SUPPORT ..........................................................................  7
E. SUMMARYPROJECTANALYSES ..........................................................................         7
1. ECONOMIC .......      ................................................................... 7
2. FINANCIAL ........      .................................................................. 8
3. TECHNICAL ..........................................................................                    8
4. INSTITUTIONAL ..........................................................................                8
5. ENVIRONMENTAL ...............................................................................................  9
6. SOCIAL ..................................                                                              10
7. SAFEGUARD POLICIES .................................. 11
F. SUSTAINABILITYAND RISKS ..................................                                               11
1. SUSTAINABILITY .................................. 11
2. CRITICAL RISKS ..................................                                                      11
3. POSSIBLE CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS .................................. 13
G. MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS ..................................                                                  13
1. EFFECTIVENESS CONDITIONS .................................. 13
H: READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTA TION ..................................                                          13
I: COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES ..................................                                          14



ANNEXES
ANNEX 1: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY .............................................     15
ANNEX 2: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION .............................................  18
ANNEX 3: ESTIMATED PROJECT COST .............................................     25
ANNEX 4: COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS SUMMARY .............................................  26
ANNEX 5: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ............................................. 28
ANNEX 6: PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS ............................................. 31
ANNEX 7: PROJECT PROCESSING TIMETABLE ................................ . ,37
ANNEX 8: DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE ................................ 38
ANNEX 9: STATEMENT OF LoANS AND CREDITS ................................ 39
ANNEX 10: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE ................................ 41
ANNEX 11: LETrER OF SECTOR POLICY ................................ 43
MAP: IBRD MAP NO. 31621



I
TANZANIA
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
Water and Urban - AFTUl: AFC04
Date: February 20, 2002                                Task Team Leader: Alain R. Locussol
Country Manager/Director: James W. Adams               Sector Manager/Director: Jeffrey S. Racki
Project ID: P047762-TZ                                 Sector(s): Water Supply and Sanitation
Lending Instrument: SIL                                Themes (s): Rural Development
Poverty Targeted Intervention:  Yes  X   No
Project Financing Data
Loan             X    Credit           Grant              Guarantee               Other
[Specify]
or Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Project Cost tUS$mJ: 27.7                           Co financing tUS$mI: 0.0
Total Bank Financing (US$m): 26.0
Has there been a discussion of the IBRD financial product menu with the borrower?   Yes    X    No
Borrower: Government of Tanzania
Responsible agency: Ministry of Water and Livestock Development (MWLD)
Implementing Agency(ies):
Rural Water Supply Division
Address: Sokoine Drive/Mkwepu P. 0. Box 9153 Dar es Salaam
Contact Person: Mr. Bakari Mahiza (Permanent Secretary)
Tel: 255-22-2120281               Fax: 255-22-2139847                 Email: rwssp@africaonline.co.tz
Selected Project District Councils
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$):
FY        2002            2003           2004            2005            2006
Annual       0.60m           4.1 lm         9.39m           5.94m            5.96m
Cumulative       0.60m           4.71m         14.1 Om         20.04m           26.00m
Period implementation period: May 2002 - June 2006
Expected effectiveness date: 05/01/2002                               Expected closing date: 06/30/2006



2
A.     Project Development Objective
1.     Project Development Objective:
1.1    The Project development objective is to ensure access to improved and sustained water and sanitation
services in rural communities in Tanzania. This would be accomplished through the implementation of the new
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (RWSS) sector policy and the preparation of a National RWSS Program. To this
end, the Project would support a decentralized and demand responsive delivery mechanism and help build the
institutional foundation for implementing the National RWSS Program both at the central and local governments
levels.
2.     Key Performance Indicators
* Decentralized and demand-based district implementation model validated and operational in up to 12 districts;
* Water supply and sanitation conditions improved in about 250 communities located in up to 12 Project districts;
and
* National RWSS Program and Strategy endorsed by key stakeholders.
B.     Strategic Context
1.     Sector-Related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goals supported by the Project
Document number: CAS Report No. 20728-TA               I                       Date: June 30, 2000
1.1    The Project would support the CAS objective of reducing poverty and improving the health condition of
vulnerable groups in rural settlements, and in particular the objectives of the Government of Tanzania's (GOT)
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and the Tanzania Assistance Strategy (TAS) with regards to increase in
RWSS services coverage. It would also support GOT's decentralization policy under the Local Government Reform
Program; it is anticipated that, over time, funding of RWSS projects would be fully integrated within the overall
intergovernmental fiscal framework. The Project would support enhanced community participation in the provision
of local infrastructure, and increased participation of the private sector in service delivery. The Project would also
provide sector underpinning to ongoing Community Driven Development (CDD) programs, such as the Tanzania
Social Action Fund (TASAF).
2.     Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy
2.1    Decentralization of implementation management: Most RWSS projects were hitherto implemented
directly by the Ministry of Water and Livestock Development (MWLD) through programs supported by donors.
Until 1995, schemes were also operated by MWLD and later, by default, by communities themselves.
Decentralization of the provision of RWSS services is thus a new concept in Tanzania, which would require: (a) a
redefinition of the role of MWLD; (b) the building of capacity at the district and community levels for planning,
implementing and managing RWSS schemes; and (c) an enhanced role for NGOs and the private sector.
2.2    Redefinition of the role of MWLD: The role of MWLD would evolve towards that of: (a) a facilitator
and coordinator of sector policies and investment programs; (b) a supporting agency for local governments and
communities; and (c) an enabling agency for NGOs and private consultants, contractors, suppliers and operators.
This would require a redefinition of MWLD mandate, as well as new skills and operational arrangements.
2.3    Capacity building at the district level: Communities would, with the assistance of NGOs and consultants
active in their districts, select, design and implement RWSS projects that correspond to their needs and financial
capacities. District Water and Sanitation Teams (DWST), under the responsibility of the Districts Councils (DCs),
would be developed to prepare district RWSS plans, appraise RWSS projects presented by communities and assist
the latter in implementing them.



3
2.4     Enhanced role for the private sector: Interface of the local private sector with districts and rural
communities has so far been weak, with MWLD building facilities, supplying equipment and providing technical
assistance through dedicated project teams. The role of small local firms and NGOs in the construction, supply of
equipment and delivery of services (consulting and extension) would be enhanced.
3.      Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices
3.1    Implementation issues to be addressed over the life of the Project are mostly conditions under which...;
*   Decision making process: ... Communities, with the assistance of NGOs active in their district, would select
options that correspond to their preference and willingness to pay and formulate sub-project proposals and
management plans;
* Sub-project appraisal: ... DWSTs would appraise sub-projects prepared by communities and approve their
financing;
*   Cost sharing arrangement: ... The selection of options would be affected by the "per capita cost caps"
imposed on GOT financial contribution, and communities would organize themselves to raise counterpart
funding and fund operation and maintenance;
*   Financing mechanisms: ... GOT would channel funds earmarked for WSS to districts (via a sector conditional
grant mechanism) and audit their use as part of its normal oversight functions;
*   District Council contracting: ... DCs would let and supervise, on behalf of communities, contracts such as
siting and drilling of boreholes or construction of piped systems;
*   Community contracting: . .. Communities (village-level authorities - Mtaas) would let and supervise simple
construction contracts and DWSTs would control and certify works;
*   Incentives to deliver: ... Specialized NGOs contracted by DCs, would promote the Project and be compensated
on the basis of actual delivery of RWSS schemes;
*   Private sector: ... Assistance would be provided to local contractors, artisans and retailers of pumps and spare
parts;
* Linkages with water resource management: ... Issues such as competing demand for domestic water supply,
livestock water supply, irrigation, protection of water source and the environment, health impacts of sharing
domestic water sources with livestock, hygiene promotion, would be addressed as part the planning and
implementation processes; and
* HIV/AIDS: ... A prevention and mitigation program could be implemented as part the hygiene promotion
activities supported by the Project.
C.     Project Description Summary
1.     Project Components
The Project would have three main components:
1.1    Establishment of the district implementation model (estimated at US$1.20 million): This component
would initially start in the three districts of Rufiji (Coastal Region), Mpwapwa (Dodoma region), and Kilosa
(Morogoro Region) and gradually expanding to about 12 out of Tanzania's 113 districts. Activities would include:
(a) support to the establishment and strengthening of operational capacity (equipment support and training) of
DWSTs to prepare district RWSS plans and appraise RWSS sub-projects proposed by communities; (b) support to
the establishment of district RWSS Funds (a sector conditional grant system) to finance the construction of new
RWSS schemes, the rehabilitation and expansion of existing systems and possibly other water related small scale
infrastructure investments, and (c) the assistance to communities in the proper management and operation of these
systems through appropriate hygiene education as well as promoting HIV/AIDS mitigation and prevention activities.
1.2    Construction of RWSS community sub-projects (estimated at US$21.30 million): This component
would consist of sectoral conditional grants to about 250 communities located in 12 districts to improve the WSS
service; this would include the construction or the rehabilitation of existing dug or drilled wells, boreholes equipped
with handpumps or powered pumps, spring tapping, piped systems, household latrines and community sanitation



4
facilities. DWSTs would employ facilitation service providers (NGOs) for community facilitation and extension
services and technical services providers (engineering consultants) for sub-project design and construction
supervision. This component would support the set up of a network of private retail outlets for the distribution of
spare parts for handpumps and of certified installation and maintenance handpumps agents in the districts. The
component would also include an "innovation window" for exploring community contracting where possible, or
technologies and management arrangements so far untested in Tanzania.
1.3    Institutional strengthening and development of a National RWSS Program:(estimated at US$3.55
million); This component would include: (a) the support to stakeholder consultative process on the strategy for
scaling up towards a National RWSS Program; (b) technical assistance to the preparation of the National RWSS
Program; (c) the development of a management information system (MIS) for tracking lessons learned from the
proposed Project; (d) assistance to the restructuring of RWSS sector institutions within MWLD and the building of
the capacity of key stakeholders (MWLD, NGOs, consultants, contractors, suppliers of equipment and service
providers). This would include dedicated RWSS sector capacity building support to IDA-financed Tanzania Social
Action Fund (TASAF) project districts; and (e) assistance to MWLD for overall management of the Project.
Component                Category          Indicative   % of       Bank-         % of
Cost       Total     financing     Bank-
(US$                   (US$       financing
million)               million)
A. Establishment of District   Institutional            1.20    4%             1.15     4%
Implementation Model           Development
B. Construction ofRWSS      Water and Sanitation       21.30   77%            19.70     76%
Schemes
C. Institutional               Institutional            3.55   13%             3.50     14%
Strengthening and              Development
Development of National
RWSS Program
D. PPA Refinancing                                      0.55    2%             0.55 1   3%
E. Unallocated         X    _X     ______1.10                   4%             1.10     4%
Total Project Cost        27.70   100.0%          26.00    100%
Total Financing Needs       27.70                  26.00
2.     Key Policy and Institutional Reforms to be Sought by the Project
2.1    Community management and demand-based investments: Despite significant investment in the RWSS
sector since the early 1970s, less than 50% of the rural population has access to a reliable water supply service. Due
to poor maintenance arrangements, a significant percentage of RWSS systems are not functioning properly.
Investment levels are low and support by donors has usually been provided in a fragmented fashion. Also, little
emphasis has been placed on post construction operation and maintenance support to communities. The 1991
National Water Policy indicated a clear departure from the era of "free water" launched in 1967, by introducing the
principle of cost sharing between GOT and communities and transferring the responsibility to operate and maintain
RWSS schemes to village water committees. The revised National Water Policy developed in 2001 emphasizes: (a)
a demand-responsive approach whereby communities choose service levels based on their perceived needs and
ability to pay; (b) an upfront contribution to capital costs and the full financing of O&M costs by communities as a
means to foster ownership of the project; and (c) implementation and management of schemes by communities with
the assistance of local govemments, NGOs and the private sector.
2.2     New roles for GOT and the private sector: The disengagement of MWLD central operations from the
direct identification, management, construction and operation of RWSS schemes and the development of capacities
within DWSTs, NGOs, consultants, contractors and suppliers would be the key institutional reforms to be supported
by the Project.



5
3.      Benefits and Target Population
3.1     The main benefits of the Project would be: (a) the improvement of the WSS service to about 650,000
people living in about 250 rural communities and small towns of less than 15,000 in 12 districts; and (b) the
development of an enabling environment and capacity for launching a National RWSS Program. Women and
children who typically spend long hours fetching water of doubtful quality would be the prime beneficiaries of the
Project.
4.     Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
4.1     Project oversight. MWLD would be responsible for the overall implementation of the Project. MWLD
has established a multi-stakeholder Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) consisting of representatives from the
sector ministry (MWLD) and that of Health (MOH), Regional Administration and Local Government (MRALG)
and selected Development Partners (donors, NGOS and private sector organisations) to oversee and review Project
execution and implementation arrangements, maintain contact with other projects, facilitate sharing of experiences,
and make recommendations for policy review and dissemination during the development of the National RWSS
Program.
4.2    Project implementation arrangements. The Rural Water Supply Department (RWSD) of MWLD would
manage the implementation of the Project by assigning dedicated MWLD staff and local technical assistance to
supporting participating districts in: (a) establishing a DWST; (b) preparing a District WSS Plan (DWSP) endorsing
policy principles; and (c) establishing a District WSS Fund to which the Project would make financial contributions.
The RWSD would also be responsible for the day-to-day management and monitoring of Project activities including
overall procurement oversight, financial management and arrangements for annual audits (Annex 5 and 6). The
regional offices of RWSD would provide specialised services (support in preparation of District WSS Plans and
establishment of MIS, technical oversight of implementation agents, quality assurance of sub-projects and water
quality monitoring) to Project district and be compensated on an output basis. Communities would be the
beneficiaries of funds and be responsible for identifying and designing sub-projects, applying for financing,
operating and maintaining systems. Except in cases where communities are judged capable of contracting directly
for simple construction (eg. hand dug wells, spring protection and rainwater catchment systems) as well as for sub-
projects under the innovation window but outside the Project districts, the DCs would contract on behalf of
communities and obtain assistance of local consultants for supervising construction in Project districts.
4.3    In order to be eligible, communities would be required to provide an upfront cash contribution of at least
5% of the estimated sub-project cost and prepare a management plan, emphasizing financial sustainability. Local
intermediaries or facilitation service providers, such as national NGOs (preferably supported by international NGOs
specialized in WSS) and small consulting firms, would assist communities in the above tasks in exchange for a fee
proportional to the sub-project cost. DWSTs would appraise community applications according to procedures
specified in guidelines agreed upon between the DC and the RWSD and attached to the DWSP. Apart from
financial and technical criteria, all sub-projects would also be appraised against environmental and social criteria. A
community sub-project agreement will be signed between the community and the DC confirming the respective
commitments. Following approval of sub-projects for the year by the DWST, the DC shall compile the list of sub-
projects for the year and prepare a consolidated budget request for submission to the RWSD; the RWSD shall, after
carrying out a thorough review of the proposed sub-projects and budget, approve the proposed annual work
program, and enter into a sub-project agreement with the DC on terms and conditions set out in the POM on which
basis the financing of the annual work program shall take place. The transfer of funds by the Borrower from the
Special Account to the respective Project District's account shall be done in accordance with the approved annual
work program, as reflected in the sub-project agreement, and in accordance with procedures set forth in the POM.
For sub-projects under the innovation window but outside the Project districts, the RWSD will sign the sub-project
agreement directly with the beneficiary community and be responsible for supervision of the sub-project
implementation. The RWSD would in parallel engage specialized consultants (local and international) for: (a)
consulting stakeholders during the preparation of the National RWSS Program; (b) redefining MWLD's mandate in
the RWSS sector; (c) building the capacity of implementing agents and intermediaries; and (d) putting in place a
MIS for documenting lessons learned during Project implementation.



6
4.4    Project implementation schedule. Implementation of the Project is expected to take about four years. The
DWSTs have been established in the first three participating districts and equipped through funds made available
under a US$0.55 million Project Preparation Advance (PPA) granted by IDA; the RWSD has also been equipped.
At Credit effectiveness, the RWSD would be fully operational to assist the service providers, such as NGOs and
consultants; selection of the latter would be initiated soon after Project appraisal. During the first year of
implementation, construction activities would be initiated in participating communities of the first three districts and
active promotion, stakeholders consultation, and the identification and design of the first year investment program in
the nine other Project districts. During the next 36 month period the focus would be on expanding the district
implementation model and building RWSS schemes in all 12 Project districts. The strategy for scaling up to other
districts and implementing the National RWSS Program would be developed based on actual implementation
experience and the outcome of the stakeholder consultation during the second and third years.
D.     Project Rationale
1.     Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection
1.1    In order to gain experience with decentralized implementation, the use of a Learning and Innovation Loan
(LIL) was initially considered. However, given the size of the country as well as the amount of preparatory work
carried out, GOT considered that a Project focusing on only three districts would not provide enough lessons for
scaling-up to the National RWSS Program. Also, the scope of the LIL would have not made the necessary impact
on the GOT's poverty reduction agenda because the size of its "software" component would have not allowed
construction of a significant number of RWSS schemes. The Project was thus expanded to be broad enough to
generate sufficient experience and to build the necessary capacity and institutional arrangements for a future
National RWSS Program. Combining activities under a Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF) was also
considered but dropped because Social Action Funds, even though they enable strong community ownership, have
proven to be inadequate instruments to reform sectors, develop sector institutions and sector capacity in both the
public and private sectors. The use of an Adaptable Program Lending (APL) was also considered, but believed to
be a better instrument to implement the National RWSS Program that should follow the proposed Project.
2.     Major Related Projects financed by the Bank and/or Other Development Agencies
Latest Supervision (PSR) Ratings
Sector issue                        Project          Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-Financed
Rehabilitation of infrastructure services,  Urban Sector                   S               S
institutional strengthening               Rehabilitation Project
Social action program                     TASAF                            S               S
Parastatal reform                         Private/Public Sector            S               S
Management Project
Other Development Agencies
Community water and sanitation development  WAMMA Initiative               S               S
(Wateraid)
Rural water supply development (NEDA-      Shiyanga/Morogoro WSS           S               S
Dutch)                                    Projects
3.     Lessons Learned and Reflected in Proposed Project Design
3.1    The lessons learned from: (a) the review of selected bilateral and NGOs managed projects in Tanzania,
carried out during the preparation of the RWSS policy; (b) regional experiences; (c) contributions made during the
global RWSS conference held in Washington in May 1998; (d) results of Project preparation work; and (e) inputs
from the Bank's RWSS Thematic Group can be summarized as follows:



7
*   Community involvement in the design, implementation and operation and maintenance (O&M) is a key to
sustainability;
*   Communities should apply for funding only when they have met participation criteria, and in particular
collected the cash contribution to the sub-project cost;
*   Community willingness to pay for services is often much higher than expected; it is seldom reflected in
govemments' cost sharing policies which often favour high levels of subsidies;
*   Communities definitively need assistance to plan facilities and training to manage them;
*   The local private sector usually responds well; proper packaging of construction activities should be considered
to capture economies of scale; spare parts availability in the local market is a key element of sustainability of
schemes that involve pumps;
*   Sustainability relies greatly on the capacity of WSS committees to assume their functions; training should start
early in the sub-project cycle; and
*   More attention must be given to gender considerations, sanitation and hygiene education components so as to
achieve lasting results; women have a greater role in decision making and are better empowered to facilitate
community action.
4.     Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership
4.1    GOT has demonstrated a high level of commitment during preparation of the Project. There is also a strong
ownership of the National RWSS Policy, designed in a participatory manner by Tanzanians and with limited
external assistance. The first three districts selected have shown their commitment to the Project by actively
participating in its preparation and by substantially strengthening their DWSTs. Finally, communities have also
demonstrated commitment to the RWSS program; in fact, most communities in Tanzania already have a WSS
Committee and a WSS Fund in a local bank. MWLD has also taken initial steps to re-organize its RWSD to fit its
new role of facilitator and coordinator by carrying out a preliminary institutional analysis aimed at restructuring the
RWSD by end December 2003. MWLD successfully prepared the Project including: (a) environmental and social
assessments and mitigation plans; (b) Financial Management Plans (FMP), procurement documents and Project
Operational Manuals (POM); (c) detailed Project management arrangements; and (d) identification of sub-projects
to be implemented during the first year.
5.     Value Added of Bank Support
5.1    GOT sees the Bank, and the Water and Sanitation Program (WSP) for Eastem and Southem Africa (based
in Nairobi) managed by the Bank, as partners for developing a coherent National RWSS Program, testing conditions
of implementation and building a strong consensus among financiers on the approach pursued in the future. This is
even more important that significant funds may be made available to RWSS through the HIPC initiative. The
Bank's experience in supporting similar projects makes it a natural partner to GOT for drawing on lessons learned
worldwide and effecting policy reforms.
E.     Summary Project Analyses
1.     Economic
[]Cost-Benefit Analysis:                            ERR (NA)
[ Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[X] Other
1.1    The major benefits of this Project arise from the establishment of an institutional model and the
development of strategies for scaling up from a district level capacity building exercise to a National RWSS
Program. At the district level, the Project would finance improvements or sub-projects identified by communities
and managed by them, with the assistance of local NGOs, where necessary. Given this demand-driven approach, it
is not possible to identify sub-projects and conduct the related economic analyses a priori. To ascertain the current
water supply situation in beneficiary communities and assess the nature and magnitude of the benefits from a typical
community-level sub-project, household surveys were conducted in three of the twelve districts (two villages per
district) that would be covered by the Project. These surveys confirm that the current water supply situation is



8
difficult - households are consuming small amount of water (about 10 litres per capita per day), they are spending a
significant amount of time in collecting water (often 2-3 hours per day), and suffer frequently from water-borne
diseases such as diarrhoea and dysentery.
1.2    To assess the magnitude of benefits, an indicative economic analysis was conducted for various alternatives
in the Kilosa district. This analysis suggests that benefits from time savings are large and are often, in themselves,
sufficient to justify investments in improved water supply. Specifically, internal rates of return (IERR) and net
present values (NPV) were calculated for the following improvements: spring protection, hand-dug or drilled well
fitted with hand pump, shallow borehole fitted with hand pump, mechanized deep borehole, and a mechanized deep
borehole with a piped scheme. Except for spring protection which resulted in a negative NPV, all other alternatives
resulted in positive NPVs and in IERRs higher than 11%. The detailed discussion of the economic analysis is
presented in Annex 4.
2.     Financial
2.1    Financial policy for sub-projects. Communities would contribute at least five percent (5%) in cash
towards the construction costs of sub-projects and cover the totality of O&M costs, in accordance with GOT's
policy. Community contributions would be used primarily to finance the purchase of pumps and standposts as well
as specialized maintenance by local mechanics. For new sub-projects, a ceiling of US$40 equivalent per capita
would apply to GOT sectoral conditional grant towards construction costs. This figure would be reviewed during
preparation of the national RWSS program; it would eventually be replaced by annual sectoral conditional grants
distributed horizontally according to a formula that would take into account demands for improved WSS services
formulated by community and district. The Project should prioritise investments where willingness to pay is
highest, especially when there is over-subscription of the District RWSS Fund by communities.
2.2    Fiscal impact. GOT is expected to contribute 5% towards the cost of construction contracts; GOT would
also finance staffing and recurrent cost associated with the RWSD and DWST personnel; its total contribution is
estimated a US$1.0 million equivalent, over the four year period of the Project. GOT would not contribute to the
O&M costs of the WSS schemes. Communities would also contribute an average 5% of the cost of construction
contracts (estimated at about US$ 0.7 million), and finance 100% of the O&M costs of the WSS schemes.
3.     Technical
3.1    Technologies used for RWSS in Tanzania are well-known and standardized. Water supply schemes would
mostly consist of hand-dug wells, hand drilled tube wells, boreholes fitted with pumps, and small piped systems, fed
either by gravity or by pumping. Sanitation schemes would mostly include latrines. Unit costs used for these
technologies are based on similar on-going projects and have been confirmed during the preparation of the first year
investment program. In accordance with GOT policy of standardizing pumping equipment handpumps, powered
pumps and submersible pumps which are already installed in large numbers in the Project area would be selected.
Existing handpumps (Nira AF85, SWN80/8 1, Afridev) are manufactured locally and in other countries as well.
Spare parts for handpumps and maintenance services would be available to communities through a network of
private zonal supply agents, district spare parts outlets and certified installation and repair technicians to be
established by handpumps suppliers. The viability of solar pumping, lower-cost lifting devices, and rain water
catchment systems other than those currently used by households could be tested under the "innovation window".
The Project would provide training to small private contractors and operators/caretakers. RWSD would arrange for
annual independent technical audits of sub-projects including designs, procurement procedures, construction quality,
management arrangements by communities and private sector participation; these audits would also review
implementation of the environmental management plan and achievement of social objectives.
4.     Institutional
4.1    Executing agencies. The MWLD would be the executing agency for the Project. As mentioned above, its
role would evolve towards that of a facilitator and a supporting agency for local governments, and the private sector.



9
Its mandate and particularly that of the RWSD would be redefined before end December 2003 and new skills and
operational arrangements would be developed accordingly and restructured by the end December 2004.
4.2    Project management. The RWSD of MWLD would be responsible for managing the Project.
International technical assistance would be provided to the RWSD over most of the Project implementation period
to develop general project management and procurement capacities, the MIS and help prepare the National RWSS
Program. The RWSD would in addition recruit short term consultants, as appropriate, to strengthen its technical and
financial management capacities. The key implementation agencies, however, would be the participating District
Councils. Support to DWST would be provided through the regional offices of the RWSD; the latter are currently
being strengthened by MWLD, by mirroring the skill mix and staff profile at headquarters. Technical assistance
would be provided to DWSTs by facilitation service providers (specialized NGOs) for community extension
services and technical service providers (local consulting firms) for design and construction supervision. The
regional RWSD office would assist participating districts to establish the DWST, prepare a DWSP and provide other
specialised services, such as water quality control, on demand.
4.3    Procurement. Particular attention has been paid during Project preparation to procurement rules and
procedures that would apply to District Councils, which would be responsible for most procurement, and whose
capacity has been assessed as weak (Annex 6). Each participating district will therefore augment its capacity by
procuring the services of a technical service provider to assist in procurement management and construction
supervision. Additional support in procurement planning and management will be provided through the
international technical assistance to RWSD. Detailed procedures are contained in the Project Operational Manual
(POM) and the Project Procurement Manual. Districts would prepare annual service delivery and procurement plans
by aggregating sub-projects presented by communities, package consulting services, construction and supply of
equipment and submit them to RWSD for review. Standard procurement procedures documentation (contracts, bid
evaluation forms...) are also included in the Project Procurement Manual and POM.
4.4    Financial management issues. The financial management capacity assessment conducted during Project
preparation also suggests modest financial capacity at both MWLD and the participating districts. The Project
would strengthen both MWLD and DC financial management systems, through technical assistance and training to
ensure compliance with BP/OP 10.02 and reach Financial Monitoring Reporting (FMR) status for project
monitoring purposes before credit effectiveness. MWLD would manage and report on the Special Account and
arrange for its annual external audits as well as for each District Water and Sanitation Funds (DWSF). MWLD
would transfer funds to DWSFs under quarterly instalments. The initial instalment would be equal to 30% of the
approved annual sector conditional grant for the DWST; the DWSF would thereafter be replenished upon
submission by DWSTs of statement of expenditures (SOEs). Annex 5 gives an outline of the financial management
procedures, including accounting and audits which are covered in the POM. All details of financial management
and formats for quarterly FMRs for project monitoring purposes were discussed and agreed on during negotiations.
5.      Environmental
5.1    Steps undertaken for the preparation of the environmental assessment and mitigation plan. An
environmental assessment (EA) was carried out and a mitigation plan was prepared before appraisal for the first
three participating districts. Issues investigated include primarily: (a) protection and regulation of water sources; (b)
protection of water intakes; (c) proper disposal of waste water and sludge from pit latrines; (d) impact of
construction; and (e) over grazing near newly developed water points. Particular attention was paid to the
incremental effects of increased water supplies in small towns.
5.2    Main features and adequacy of EMP. No major environmental issues associated with the Project are
anticipated; environmental risks are mostly associated with the potential for future inadequate maintenance of
facilities. The Project would basically involve the rehabilitation of existing schemes, development of point sources
for and construction of new point or small piped WS systems and pit latrines. Groundwater mining is not envisaged,
and the additional waste water generated would be disposed off safely through on-site facilities. The environmental
management plan (EMP) which is part of the POM includes procedures for screening sub-projects and a checklist of
mitigation measures, as well as for provisions for community education on environmental issues. The EMP is
applicable to all districts that would eventually participate in the Project.



10
5.3     Timeline and status of EA.                          Environmental Category: B
EA start-up date:             10/01/2000
Date of first EA draft:       02/15/2001
Date of final draft:          07/30/2001
Date submitted to Infoshop    09/28/2001
5.4     Stakeholder consultation. EAs were carried out in a participatory manner, involving households, village
leaders and local governments officials. The draft EA report was reviewed by selected members of the Technical
Advisory Committee (TAC), composed of the major stakeholders. It was publicly disclosed in leading English and
Swahili newspapers in Tanzania; copies are available in MWLD, the offices of the participating District Councils,
the National Library, the library of the University of Dar es Salaam and the National Environmental Management
Commission (NEMC) offices.
5.5     Mechanisms for monitoring and evaluating impact on the environment. As part of appraisal of sub-
projects by DWSTs an EA and an EMP would be prepared; the results of the EAs as well as the conclusions of the
independent technical audits would be entered into the MIS and used as a monitoring tool. The POM includes a
template for monitoring conditions at well sites.
6.      Social
6.1     Key issues and social development outcomes
*   Ability to include the poorer segments of the communities in the Project;
*   Promotion and implementation of sanitation activities in parallel with water;
*   Coordination and support to GOT's program for preventing and mitigating HIV/AIDS.
6.2     Participatory approach - Involvement of NGOs and other civil society organizations. During Project
preparation, a series of workshops were held in the first three participating districts. They brought together
representatives of District Councils, NGOs, Community Based Organizations (CBOs), WSS Committees, village
governments, users, local private contractors, suppliers and operators. These consultations would be replicated in
other participating districts. Other workshops were organized at the national level for stakeholders from Ministries
of Finance, Water and Livestock Development, Health, Local Government and Regional Administration,
Community Development, Women Affairs and Children and other financiers active in the WSS sector. Selected
representatives of stakeholders already constitute the TAC that has been consulted actively on the scope and details
of the Project. Community WSS committees would actively be involved in the identification, design and
implementation of sub-projects. Most of the community extension services would be carried out by local NGOs.
6.3    Institutional arrangement put in place to ensure social outcomes. The NGOs engaged for community
extension services would be requested, and trained, to systematically include poorest segments of the community
and ensure gender balance in the planning and implementation of sub-projects. NGOs would also have to adopt the
Participatory Hygiene and Sanitation Transformation (PHAST) methodology in the project cycle to ensure that
sanitation issues are properly taken care of. In addition, NGOs would closely work with groups that are more
vulnerable to the spread of HIV/AIDs, in particular itinerant construction and extension workers.
6.4     Monitoring of social development outcomes: DWST assisted by NGOs would carry out routine
participatory monitoring and evaluation (M&E) that would be reflected in the MIS. On the basis of the independent
technical audits, the TAC would review the outcome of sub-projects and ensure that social objectives are met. In
particular, it would verify that well off communities do not capture sub-projects, and their benefits also flow to
poorer communities.



7.      Safeguard Policies
7.1     Do any of the following safeguards apply to the project?
Policy                                       Applicability
X     Environmental Assessment                 X     Yes               No               TBD
Natural Habitat                                 Yes        X     No               TBD
Forestry                                        Yes        X     No               TBD
Pest Management                                 Yes        X     No               TBD
Cultural Property                               Yes        X     No               TBD
Indigenous People                              Yes         X     No               TBD
Involuntary Resettlement                       Yes         X     No               TBD
Safety of Dams                                 Yes         X     No               TBD
Project in International Waters                Yes         X     No               TBD
Project in Disputed Areas                      Yes         X     No               TBD
7.2.   Project compliance: The EA and the SA were completed before appraisal. The EMP includes a checklist
to ensure that each sub-project is appraised against specific environmental and social impacts and that a mitigation
plan is prepared.
F.     Sustainability and Risks
1.     Sustainability
1.1 The sustainability of the WSS service rests on two key elements:
*   Communities are willing and able to manage and protect WSS facilities: under the Project, communities would
manage the whole project cycle;
*   Spare parts and maintenance services are available on the local market: private suppliers and NGOs based in
the district and the region would obtain technical assistance and financial incentives to provide parts and
services to communities.
2.     Critical Risks
2.1    Three main risks are associated with the Project:
*   Limited commitment of RWSD to its new role of facilitator and support agency: the Project would keep all
implementation activities at the district level and use the financial contribution as a means to avoid MWLD
implementing a "supply driven" project;
*   Limited implementation capacity of DWST and private sector: the Project would provide DWST staff with
training in planning, appraisal, management and monitoring and evaluation; to complement this, the Project
would also provide training to NGOs and small consulting firms in the same fields; and
*   Delays in the release of counterpart funds: proper and timely budgeting procedures would be followed by
RWSD.



12
Risk                       Risk             Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Project Outputs to Development Objectives
*   Limited commitment by MWLD-RWSD          M      *   Transfer of most Project activities to district
to its new role of facilitator and support          level with support from regional RWSD office.
agency to districts and private sector.         *   Emphasis on community financial contribution
to create strong local ownership.
*   Plan for reorganizing RWSD to be submitted
by end 2003.
*   Lack of commitment by District           M      *   Wide promotion of RWSS policies and Project
Councils to adhere to demand responsive             rules to avoid political influences interfering in
approach and resulting WSS plans.                   expressions of demand by communities.
*   TA provided to districts to integrate RWSS
activities into district services development
plans. Annual allocation of Project funds made
contingent upon good performance during
preceding year.
*   Insufficient capacity of RWSS            M      *   Community leadership skills and ability for
Committees to identify, develop and                 planning and management strengthened
manage the WSS service.                             through technical assistance.
*   NGOs and private sector unable to deliver  M     *   Technical assistance available to both NGOs
extension services, construction, parts and          and private sector;
maintenance services in a timely manner          *   Adequate packaging of construction and supply
because of limited capacity and low                  contracts;
financial incentives.                            *   NGOs fees linked to WSS delivered; initial
inventories of parts pre-financed by Project.
*   Limited support to National RWSS Policy   M      *   Extensive consultation with donors, through
from traditional donors resulting in                 TAC in particular; annual joint RWSS sector
limited financial support to the RWSS                reviews;
Program.                                         *   Coordination with donors during transition to
increased financing of RWSS sector from
HIPC.
Project Components to Outputs
*   Limited District Council and DWST        M      *   Technical assistance and training would be
capacity to promote, appraise and                   provided to districts through regional RWSD.
approve sub-projects.
*   Inadequate capacity of communities to    M      .   Specialised NGOs would be engaged by
formulate credible sub-projects and to              districts to assist communities prepare their
finance their share of capital cost.                sub-projects and formulate appropriate
operation and maintenance arrangements.
*   Insufficient capacity of MWLD-RWSD       M      *   Exteral technical assistance would be engaged
to manage project activities and          M      *  Etra ehia        sitnewudb        nae
comnslate pro*ce   effectiel                        over the course of the Project to assist RWSD
manage the Project and the consultative process
for the development of the national RWS
Program.
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)



13
3.      Possible Controversial Aspects
None.
G.      Main Loan Conditions
1.     Board Conditions
* Submission to IDA of signed Letter of Sector Policy by GOT
2.      Effectiveness Conditions
* MWLD has finalized the Project Operational Manual (POM) satisfactory in form and substance, to the
Association;
* MWLD has appointed a Project accountant with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association;
* MWLD completes the development of a simplified and customized FMRs for project monitoring purposes
acceptable to the Association;
* Submission of signed Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), acceptable to the Association, between MWLD
and the three initial Project District Councils; and
* MWLD has opened the Project Account and an initial contribution of Tshs 60 million has been deposited.
2.     Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements]
* The Borrower shall: (i) carry out the day to day implementation of the Project through the RWSD, and shall
ensure that staff with qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association are maintained
throughout Project implementation; (ii) ensure that RWSD implements Part A.3 of the Project under the
direction of MOH in accordance with the Borrower's HIV/AIDS strategy; and (iii) maintain, throughout the
Project implementation period, a TAC to act as a general oversight body with respect to Project implementation,
and make recommendations for the review and dissemination of policies for the development of the Borrower's
national rural water and sanitation program.
* The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set forth in the POM and the EMP.
* The Borrower shall select Project Districts, NGOs and Sub-projects in accordance with criteria agreed with the
Association, and ensure that the Sub-project Beneficiaries implement the Sub-projects in accordance with
applicable procedures, as further provided in the POM.
* Submission of signed Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), acceptable to the Association, between MWLD
and the remaining nine Project District Councils by end December 2002;
* Submission of independent annual technical audit reports not later than six months of the end of each fiscal year
starting with end December 2003;
* Submission of an action plan by MWLD on the restructuring of the RWSD by December 2003;
* Actual restructuring of RWSD by end December 2004; and
* Submission of Project mid-term conclusions and recommendations for review with IDA by end August 2004.
H.      Readiness for Implementation
* Engineering designs for the first year investment program have been completed;
* Bidding documents for the first year investment program are being completed. Procurement of construction
supervision consultant and supervision consultants can be initiated soon after Board approval;



14
L       Compliance with Bank Policies
This Project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
iX _ . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-2< 
|  in R. Locxol                | Praful C. Patel                 giJames W. Adams       r
"eam    L   der                   Sector Director                     Country Director



15
ANNEX 1: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
TANZANIA: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Hierarchy of             Key Performance Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation         Critical Assumptions
O bjectives__         _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _
Sector-related CAS                 Sector Indicators:             Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Goal:
Reduced poverty and       *   Access to improved water supply and  *  GOT Development plans *    GOT recognizes RWSS as a
improved health and           sanitation in rural communities    *   Annual national economic    key factor in improved health
quality of life               increased by at least 3% points per    survey report               and poverty reduction
annum.                             *   GoT three year rolling  *   Social, economic and political
_  _______________________       budget.                     stability.
Project Development          Outcome / Impact Indicators:             Project reports:        (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:
Improved and sustained    *   Demand-based district implementation  *  Progress reports and  *   Adequate GOT MWLD
access to water and           model validated and operational in 12   supervision mission        budgetary allocation to
sanitation services in rural  Project districts                      reports                     MWLD-RWSD
communities                                                      *   Annual stakeholder      *   Commitment of MWLD to
*   Water supply and sanitation conditions  review workshop reports     institutional transformation of
improved in about 250 communities in  *  National RWSS program     RWSD
12 Project districts                   and strategy document   *   Commitment by lead donors to
*   Level of financing         finance the program
*   Stakeholder agreement and               committed to the        *   Effective collaboration arnong
endorsement the national RWSS           program by GOT and          stakeholders.
program and strategy                    donors (donor
I    conference)



16
Output from each                 Output Indicators:                Project reports:       (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Demand-based district  1. I Fully staffed DWST and DWSP    *   Progress reports       *   MWLD-RWSD commitment
implementation model     completed in 12 Project districts.    *  Field supervision reports  to its new role of facilitator
validated                                                      *  Participatory Mid-termn    and support agency to districts
1.2 Audited and certified DWSFs           evaluation report         and private sector.
operational in 12 Project districts.  *   Commissioned surveys  *    Commitment by districts to
and audits                adhere to demand responsive
1.3 preparation and Implementation of  *  Participating districts'  approach and resulting WSS
HIV/AIDS mitigation plans in 12 project   annual budget and          plans.
districts.                                council reports
* Terminal evaluation
report
2. Construction of RWSS  2.1 250 community identified sub-projects  *  Progress reports  *   Capacity of RWSS
schemes                  appraised.                            *  Field supervision reports  Committees to identify,
*   Participatory Mid-term     develop and manage the WSS
2.2 250 RWSS sub-projects financed from   evaluation report          service.
DWSF and constructed in eligible      *   Commissioned surveys
communities.                          *   Participating districts'
annual budget and
2.3 At least 27 of service providers; (eg. I  council reports
NGO and I design and construction     *   Annual technical and   *   NGOs and private sector
supervision consultant per district, and 3  financial audits.        ability to deliver extension
zonal handpump supplier s and         *   Terminal evaluation        services, construction, parts
maintenance agents)                       report                     and maintenance services in a
timely manner because of
2.4 All sub-projects have undergone                                 limited capacity and low
environmental screening.                                             financial incentives.
2.5 About 30 innovative sub-projects
commissioned.
3. Institutional         3.1 RWSS component of NWP updated,    *   Progress reports,     *   National RWSS Program
Strengthening and        adopted by all stakeholders           *  Participatory M&E,         financially supported by
Development of National  and widely disseminated               *   Annual stakeholder         Extemal Support Agencies.
RWSS program developed.                                            review workshop reports
3.2 Coordinated strategy for multi-donor  *  MOU between GOT and
financing of national RWSS program        donors
developed and endorsed by all stakeholders  *  GOT budget extracts
*   Supervision mission
3.3 50% of DWST in TASAF Phase I          reports.
districts trained on the DOM          *   Act on institutional
arrangements passed by
3.4 All new sector projects formulated    Parliament.
along MWLD policy principles and
implementation Guidelines
3.5 RWSD restructured to fit new sector
mandate
3.6 MIS operational in 12 Project Districts
and MWLD



17
Project Components / Sub-           Inputs: (budget for each                                  (from Components to
components:                         component)                         Project repors:        Outputs)
Component 1: District Implementation
Model
*   Establishment and Strengthening of  *  US$ 0.85m             *  MWLD quarterly and annual *  Limited District
operational capacity (equipment and                              progress reports.            Council and DWST
training) of DWSTs to appraise                               *  Bank disbursement data.       capacity to promote,
community sub-projects in 12                                *   Independent audit reports.    appraise and approve
districts                                                                                    sub-projects.
*   Establishment of DWSF for      *   US$ 0.14m
community sub-projects
*   Hygiene Education and HIV/AIDS  *  US$ 0.15m
prevention
*   Contingencies                  *   US$ 0.06m
* (US$1.20m)
Component 2: Construction of
Community RWSS schemes
*   Rural community systems         *   US$ 13.50m               *   MWLD quarterly and annual *  Capacity of
*   Handpump Supply and Maintenance *   US$ 1.24m                    progress reports.            communities to
Service                                                      *   Bank disbursement data.      formulate credible sub-
*   Design and construction supervision  *  US$ 4.34 m           *   Independent audit reports.   projects and to finance
TA                                                                                            their share of capital
*   Support to innovation window    *   US$ 0.62                                                  cost.
*   Contingencies                  *   US$ 1.60m
*   (US$21.30m)
Component 3: Institutional
Strengthening and Development of
National RWSS Program
*   Stakeholder consultation on scaling- *  US$ 0.13m            *   MWLD quarterly and annual *  Sufficient capacity of
up strategy                                                      progress reports             MWLD-RWSD to
*   TA input into National RWSS     *   US$ 0.94m                *   Implementation support       manage project
Program and MIS development                                      missions.                    activities and
*   Sector capacity building        *   US$ 0.41m                                                 consultative processes
*   Support to Private Sector       *   US$ 0.55m                                                 effectively.
*   Project management              *   US$ 1.27m
*   Contingencies                   *   US$ 0.25m
*   (US$3.55m)
PPA Refinancing                     *   US$ 0.55m
Unallocated                        *   US$ 1.10m
Total Project Budget               US$ 27.70 million                      IDA Share                 GOT Share
US$26.00m                   US$1.70m



18
ANNEX 2: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
TANZANIA: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Project Components
Component 1: Development of a District Implementation Model (estimated at US$ 1.20 million) initially in the
three districts and gradually expanding to about 12 out of Tanzania's 113 districts. Activities would include: (a)
support to the establishment, training, equipment and strengthening of operational capacity of DWSTs to prepare
district RWSS plans and appraise RWSS sub-projects identified by communities; (b) support to the establishment of
district RWSS Funds to finance the construction of new RWSS schemes, the rehabilitation and expansion of existing
systems and possibly other water related small scale infrastructure investments; and (c) the assistance to DWST in
the development of hygiene education and promotion of HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation measures.
*   Support to Strengthening of Operational Capacity of DWSTs: Starting from the three targeted districts
(Mpwapwa, Dodoma Region; Rufiji, Coast Region; and Kilosa, Morogoro Region), participating districts
would obtain a combination of training and resource provision to strengthen the capacity of their DWSTs to
better plan and support the appraisal of sub-projects identified by communities. Each district would be
supported with dedicated technical assistance to prepare their District Water and Sanitation Plan
encompassing demand forecast for services, estimated financing requirements, and rules of the game and
eligibility criteria for community access to complementary financing. A dedicated training program would
be organized for all participating DWSTs on the Project Operational Manual (POM), financial
management, procurement planning. Facilitators in special fields would be procured to conduct the
training session. Each participating district meeting obtain a minimum package of equipment to support the
field operations of its DWST. This would include a cross-country vehicle, computer, radio or telephone
linkage and other accessories.
*   Support for the Establishment of District Water and Sanitation Fund for Community Sub-projects.
Each participating district would, as part of its District Water and Sanitation Plan (DWSP), open a District
Water and Sanitation Fund (DWSF). The DWSF would be a dedicated sector conditional grant account
from which proceed could be used to finance community identified sub-projects. TA would be provided
and training organized in financial management to assist the DWST manage the DWSF.
*   Support to Hygiene Promotion and HIV/AIDS Prevention and Mitigation Plan: The Project would
support the implementation of hygiene promotion as well as HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation plan in
participating districts. Activities would be implemented under the direction of the MOH and within the
context of the national HIV/AIDS strategy. NGOs involved in community extension work would be
trained in promotion techniques and equipped with appropriate training material covering hygiene,
sanitation and HIV/AIDS prevention. Facilitators would be hired to design the material and assist DWST
run training workshops for implementation agents.
Component 2: Construction of RWSS Community Sub-projects (estimated at US$ 21.30 million) - sectoral
conditional grants to about 250 communities in up to 12 districts including the construction or the rehabilitation of
existing open wells, drilled boreholes equipped with handpumps, powered pumps and solar pumps, spring tapping,
transmission lines, distribution systems, reservoirs, latrines and community sanitation facilities in villages and small
town. The procurement of handpumps would include the establishment of private sector zonal supply agencies with
spare parts outlets and certified installation and repair agent in Project districts. Facilitation services providers
(NGOs) for community facilitation and extension services as well technical services providers (engineering
consultants) for sub-project design and construction supervision would be financed under this component as well as
an "innovation window" for exploring community contracting where possible, and untested technologies and
management arrangements in Tanzania. The sub-project rules and project cycle is described below.
* Grants for RWSS facilities: Eligible areas of investment would include the rehabilitation/construction of
small piped systems, gravity schemes, shallow wells, spring protection, borehole drilling and sanitation
facilities.



19
*   Handpump Supply and Establishment Maintenance Services: This would involve the procurement of
about 1,000 handpumps comprising of the predominate handpumps (Nira AF85, SWN 80/81 and Afridev)
already existing in each of the respective Project districts. The procurement of handpumps would be
carried out by RWSD in such a manner to ensure the establishment of private sector zonal supply agencies
with spare parts outlets and certified installation and repair agent in Project district. Three business units
would be established under the Project with each covering four Project districts.
*   Grants for Community Technical Assistance and Construction Supervision: To ensure that
communities make inforned decisions, DWSTs would employ facilitation service providers (specialized
NGOs) and technical service providers (local consulting firms) to assist: (a) communities in planning and
management of the WSS service (leadership building, basic hygiene, proposal preparation, operation and
maintenance; post construction user education and other relevant training); and (b) DWST to design sub-
projects, procure works and supervise construction.
*   Support to Innovation Window: This sub-component would also be the applied research and
development (R&D) sub-component of the Project. Depending upon specific conditions, communities may
have water related needs that go beyond domestic water supply and sanitation. It is designed to test the
provision of other community based, water related needs such as water for livestock (small charcos/dams),
water conservation, watershed management (to assure acceptable water quality), small scale irrigation, and
solid waste management. New and innovative technologies like rain water harvesting, solar pumping and
cost reduction strategies as well as innovation management arrangements would be tested on this sub-
component. Sub-project rules would the same for the District program with the exception that NGOs and
CBOs could apply to this facility on behalf of communities or specific water user associations or groups
that are outside the district programs.
Subproject Component Rules
Confirmation of District Participation: All participating districts would be eligible to benefit from the
Project subject to meeting the following conditions: (a) contribute recurrent budget to DWST; (b) appoint
qualified technical staff to manage subprojects implementation; (c) prepare a rolling district water and sanitation
plan (DWSP); and (d) establishment a District RWSS Fund and submit acceptable subproject proposals and
procurement plans (approval conditions are outlined below). Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) signed
between a DC and MWLD may be terninated for a non performing district in accordance with the conditions of
termination mentioned in the MOU and would be replaced by the next qualifying district in the Selection of
Additional Districts Report (MWLD, 2001) as updated from time to time with the approval of the Association.
Community Selection: In Project districts, communities will initially be selected by the DC (through the
DWST) based on criteria stipulated in the POM and captured in the district-development plans; existence of
WSS committee and bank account, expressed willingness of community members to contribute 5 percent of the
capital cost and assume full responsibilities for O&M of the selected facilities. Where there is over-subscription
the District Council could impose additional criteria such are poverty, existing water and sanitation facilities
and/or ability to community to increase its contribution. Communities would be requested to submit an
application form and deposit a minimum fee in their bank account. Only communities that have submitted an
application would be allowed to contact the shortlist of facilitation service providers for technical assistance to
prepare a funding proposal. Proposals that fully meet the appraisal criteria would be funded, on a first-come,
first-serve basis.
Subproject Appraisal Criteria and Implementation Process: The subproject appraisal process would be
undertaken by the DC. This is strictly a technical review and its purpose is to make sure that the subproject
meets all criteria, including: minimum service level (number of people per facility), environmental, technical,
social, financial and institutional criteria. In addition, the WATSAN would have to be recognized by the DC
and the Water Board (in the case of small towns) legally recognized. A community sub-project agreement will
be signed between the community and the DC confirming the respective commitments. Following approval of
Sub-projects for the year by the DWST, the DC shall compile the list of Sub-projects for the year, and prepare a



20
consolidated budget request for submission to the RWSD. The RWSD shall, after carrying out a thorough
review of the proposed Sub-projects and budget, approve the proposed annual work program and enter into a
Sub-project Agreement with the DC on terms and conditions set out in the POM, on which basis the financing
of the annual work program shall take place; The transfer of funds by the Borrower from the Special Account to
the respective Project District's account shall be done in accordance with the approved annual work program, as
reflected in the Sub-project Agreement, and in accordance with procedures set forth in the POM. The DC may
either contract on behalf of a Beneficiary, or permit the Beneficiary to implement its sub-project directly, on the
basis of the Community Sub-Project Agreement with a Beneficiary, if such Beneficiary has the capacity to
contract under the laws of the Borrower. For sub-project under the innovation window which are outside the
Project districts, the RWSD will sign the sub-project agreement directly with the Beneficiary and be responsible
for the appraisal and supervision of the implementation of the sub-project.
Financial Policy: The investment cost of water and latrine subprojects would be financed through a
community and GOT contribution of a least 10% (5 percent each) and the project providing a grant of 90
percent. In communities requesting piped system, individuals who demand a higher level of service (i.e. a
house connection) would be expected to pay an estimate of 4-8 months monthly bill. The community
contribution of 5 percent shall be made after subproject appraisal. For communities requesting piped systems,
half the contribution shall be made before drilling (in the case of the need for pre-feasibility work) and the other
half shall be paid construction. For handpump system, the community would pay the 5% contribution to the
DWSF and be given a voucher to collect the pump and arrange for installation and the training of the
community caretaker(s) by the certified district technician of the supply agent in the zone. The Project would
initially establish a per capita subsidy ceiling, initially set at $40/capita for all systems. This figure would be
reviewed during the preparation of the National RWSS Program and replaced by an annual sectoral conditional
grant to districts horizontally distributed according to a formula-driven system which would take into account
population, technology cost differentials, as well as community and district demand for WSS services as per the
annual request submitted by communities and approved by DWSTs. Technical assistance and training for
communities would be fully financed by the project. Different options would be tested for the financial policy
for household latrines, including (a) a project subsidy to cover the slab and vent pipe, (b) implementation of a
revolving loan fund, or (c) other innovative options that would evolve. Subsidies would be avoided but if found
to be necessary, these shall be small and targeted at creating a market (training and promotion) for the latrine
artisan over a limited period.
Technical Design Criteria: For point sources (such as hand-dug wells and boreholes), the grants for water
supply would finance a basic level of service of 20 liters per capita per day with one water point serving a
maximum of 300 persons within 400 meters. In the case of small towns, the current population and demand
would be used in sizing the distribution system with an estimated consumption of 0.75 cum/day for yard tap and
2.5 cum/day for standpost with 10-20% allowance for non-domestic consumption. However, the design should
consider a 10-15-year population accompanied by a 5 year financial forecast and a business plan.
Minimum Content of Social Process: All sub-projects would include technical assistance and community
development activities to ensure adequate assistance to the community in making informed choices,
organization, subproject implementation (including contracting and works supervision), funds administration,
and achieving effective and sustained use of their facilities. Hygiene and sanitation promotion activities would
be clearly defined in the community proposals.
Linkage between Community and DC: Communities would be involved in all stages of the project cycle.
Each time a task or decision that affect their sub-projects are made on their behalf by the DC, the community
would be consulted or involved. Communities, represented by their WSS committees would sign-off on all
official documentation pertaining to sub-project implementation (i.e. contract award, payment certificates,
completion certificates). Village government will provide the necessary legal coverage (signed constitution)
which will mandate WSS committee to carry out such functions.



21
Component 3: Institutional Strengthening and Development of National RWSS Program:(estimated at US$
3.55 million) including: (a) support to stakeholder consultative process on the strategy for scaling up towards a
National RWSS Program; (b) technical assistance to the preparation of the National RWSS Program and the
development of a management information system (MIS) for tracking lessons learned from the Project; (c)
assistance to the RWSS sector institutional restructuring and building of the capacity of key stakeholders (MWLD,
NGOs, consultants and private sector suppliers of goods and services); and (d) Project management costs.
*   Support to Stakeholder Consultation on Scaling-up Strategy: Given that the ultimate objective of the
Project is to provide sustainable RWSS services countrywide, a strategy needs to be developed for scaling
from the 12 districts to ultimately 113 districts. Based on this strategy, a "roll out" plan would have to be
developed. Such a plan should be supported by all stakeholders. This sub-component would involve a
series of consultative processes designed to ensure dialogue and inclusion of all stakeholders in the
decision making process for the scaling-up strategy, agreement on the scope, size, financing and
institutional arrangements for the National RWSS Program. A communication strategy would be prepared,
including the translation of the policy into Kiswahili, identification of target groups (ranging from
parliamentarians to village governments); preparation of brochures and training material, and identification
of dissemination channels. This sub-component would entail the actual implementation of the
communication and collaboration strategy through involving the media (radio, newspapers, and television)
and other channels. The consultations would take the forms of targeted quarterly donor meetings, cross
learning events, and study tours, thematic workshops on aspects of the Program or case studies, joint
supervision missions , annual reviews and joint participatory evaluations of progress of the project and the
preparation of the National RWSS Program.
*   Technical Assistance Inputs into Preparation National RWSS Program. This would include specialist
inputs (local and international) into the definition of the National RWSS Program. This would entail the
carrying out of a demand assessment and preparation of a longer term investment plan. Various monitoring
tools and evaluation procedures would be developed for implemented under the Project. It would also
include the development of a MIS for tracking implementation lessons and feedback into the formulation of
the National RWSS Program formulation. Significant attention would be given to the review, discussion
and formulation of a proposal for a legal and institutional framework for decentralized and autonomous
community management and ownership of RWSS schemes. This would also involve the provision of input
for restructuring the water sector/civil service reform (while the civil service reform addresses issues such
as the restructuring of the MWLD, it is expected that the restructuring at the district level would require
more detailed analysis). Specific attention would also be given to ensuring that the financing of RWSS
projects is rationally integrated into the overall intergovernmental fiscal framework as this evolves under
the decentralisation process.
*   Technical assistance for Capacity Building Of Key Implementing Agents:
General Sector Capacity Building: Given the limited capacity of the various actors, a sector-wide capacity
building strategy would be prepared and implemented under the Project: targeted stakeholders include
communities, District Councils staff, DWST staff, MWLD staff, NGOs, engineering consultants, suppliers
and contractors. It is crucial for these groups to play the roles assigned by the policy. This sub-component
would entail the assessment of training needs, preparation of training materials, channels and selection of
trainers. The following training packages are envisaged: (a) community level: training of water committees
covering planning and management oversight of the system operation, including preventive maintenance,
collection of tariffs, payments for repairs, keeping records of financial transactions, manuals and blueprints,
sanctioning people for non-payment, and ensuring that repairs are undertaken; and (b) private sector and
NGOs: support would be provided in three ways: training, logistical support and simplification of
procedures to encourage participation of small-scale entrepreneurs. The long-term objective is to ensure
that a competitive and efficient private sector is available at the district level to provide quality goods,
works and services to communities. The Project would therefore seek to increase the number of providers,
as well as ensure the quality and competitiveness of their work. Specifically, support would be provided to
drilling contractors, drilling consultants and supervisors, hand-dug well contractors, spare parts suppliers,
sanitation contractors, area mechanics, small town water system operators and providers of training and



22
community development services. The training would be contracted out by MWLD to qualified training
institutes, firms or individuals in-country or in the region.
Dedicated Capacity Building to TASAFProject: This would be a complement to the water component of
the IDA funded Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF). The Project would provide a range of capacity
building to selected districts under the TASAF project to strengthen RWSS planning and management of
RWSS subprojects. This capacity building package would focus of RWSS sector training and equipment
support to DWSTs as well as support in establishing post-construction maintenance arrangements for
community sub-projects in TASAF project districts. This dedicated support is to ensure consistency in sub-
project rules between the two complementary project especially in districts that the two project interface.
* Support to Private Sector: The Project would earmark resources to selected local private sector firms
(handpump suppliers and retailers, drilling companies, consulting firms) and sanitation artisans to establish
a firm basis for sustained delivery of specialized after-sales services to communities. This would be in the
form of equipment such as spare parts inventory for community handpump maintenance, operational
vehicles for local implementation agents (consultants, NGOs or contractors), borehole siting equipment,
drilling equipment accessories, and artisan start-up kits. These would be provided either as a grant (initial
inventory) or under a lease financing arrangement (equipment) after the necessary due diligence in
selecting the respective implementation agents.
* Support to Project Management: part of the Project resource would be allocated to the cost of Project
management. This would cover, selected staff costs for dedicated short-term technical assistance staff to
augment the capacity of the RWSD, office rehabilitation, field supervision cost, office management,
vehicles and their operations, office equipment and evaluation costs.



23
THE SUB-PROJECT CYCLE
PROMOTION 
by DC-DWST|
MONITORING & EVALUATION                        APPLICATION
by Community/DC/RWSD                           by Community to
Ai                                       nql
AUDITING                              COMMUNITY
by DC/MWLD/Independent Audits                  PRE-SELECTION
A                                     by DWST
O&M                                  PROPOSAL
by Community/                          FORMULATION
Private Sector                          by Community
fi                              (TA support from N GO)
SUPERVISION &
COMPLETION REPORT                        PROPOSAI, APPRAISAL
Community, DWST, others                          By DWST
(incl.environmental screening)
CONSTRUCTION &                        Point          Phase
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT                        One Step   initial contribution
by Community, Private                    Full      borehole testing
Sector and NGOs                     community   Final design
t                               contribution
CONTRACTING                                      and Phae
Responsibility for                                 Full contribution
- Subproject: DC
Simple Subprojects: communitils            Final Selection by DC
SUBPROJECT FUNDING
APPROVAL
DISBURSEMENT
by MWLD-RWSD



24
Roles and Responsibilities of Key Actors
Implementing Agent               Actors                           Responsibilities
* RWSD-MWLD Core       * Director of Rural Water       * Project management, leadership and
Project Team           Division                        guidance
* Project Coordinator           * Day to day management, coordination
* Procurement Specialist        * Facilitating Monitoring & Evaluation)
* Project Accountant            * Supporting capacity building at district and
* Participatory Development        community levels
Specialist
* Water and Sanitation Engineer
+ District Level       * District Executive Director   * Coordination/harmonization of investments
Management             (Chair)                      * Establishing linkages between
* District Water Engineer (Co-     communities, facilitation and technical
ordinator)                      services providers and private sector
* Community Development            suppliers
Officer                      * Letting goods/services and work contracts
* District Health Officer       * Managing contracts
* Quality assurance and certification of works
* Technical support to communities
* Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E)
* Environmental screening of sub-projects
* Facilitation Service  * NGOs, micro-finance          * Project promotion
Providers             institutions, small consulting  * Community mobilization
firms                        * Participatory planning and design of sub-
projects
* Training and leadership development
* Hygiene, health and sanitation promotion
* Preparation of facility and management
plans
* Private Sector       * Small national contractors (civil  * Supply of goods (spare parts, construction
Suppliers of Goods     works and drilling), suppliers,  materials, pumping equipment
and services           consultants (technical service  * Supply of services (borehole drilling,
providers), artisans, operators at  survey, design, construction and system
village and district level      operation)
* International project
management support consultant
* Communities          * WATSAN committee,             * Prepare proposals
Community leaders, facility  * Sub-project planning and design
users                        * Financing facility development and O&M
* Provide labour and materials
* Contract operators and suppliers
* Supervise works
* Set tariffs and collect revenue
* Operate and maintain systems
* M&E
* Own facilities



25
ANNEX 3: ESTIMATED PROJECT COST
TANZANIA: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
No.  Proiect ComDonent                                          Local  Foreign        Total
US$   (incl. cont.)
----------  million  ------------
1.0  Development of a District Implementation Model
1.1  Establishment and Strengthening of operational capacity of DWST  0.47  0.43       0.90
1.2  Establishment of RWSS Fund for sub-projects                 0.08     0.06         0.14
1.3  Hygiene education and HIV/AIDS prevention                   0.10     0.06         0.16
Sub-total 1.0     0.65     0.55        1.20
2.0  Construction of RWSS Schemes
2.1  Rural WSS facilities                                        6.25      8.35       14.55
2.2  Handpump Supply and Maintenance Service                               1.35        1.35
2.3   Sub-Project Design and Construction Supervision            3.00      1.75        4.75
2.4   Support to Innovation Window Program                       0.50      0.15        0.65
Sub-total 2.0     9.75    11.55        21.30
3.0  Institutional Strengthening and Development of National
RWSS Program
3.1  Stakeholder consultation                                    0.14                  0.14
3.2  Technical assistance input into preparation of National RWSS  0.25    0.77        1.02
Program and MIS systems
3.3  Sector capacity building                                    0.32      0.12        0.44
3.4  Support to Private Sector                                   0.08      0.51        0.59
3.5  Project management                                          0.61      0.75        1.36
Sub-total 3.0     1.40     2.15         3.55
4.0   PPA Refinancing                                                      0.55        0.55
5.0  Unallocated                                                           1.10        1.10
Total Project Cost                                         12.46    15.24        27.70
Financing Plan                                                       IDA         26.00
GOT          1.00
Benef.        0.70



26
ANNEX 4: COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS SUMMARY
TANZANIA: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Introduction
I .    The main benefits of the Project would be: (a) the improvement of WSS service to about 650,000 people
living in about 250 rural communities and small towns of less than 15,000 in 12 project districts; and (b) the
development of an enabling environment for launching a RWSS Program at the national level. Women and children
living in rural communities who spend long hours fetching water of doubtful quality would be the prime
beneficiaries of the Project.
Methodology for Assessing Economic Benefits
2.      The Project would finance water and sanitation improvements or sub-projects identified by communities
and managed by them, with assistance from local NGOs where necessary. Given this demand-driven approach, it is
not possible to know beforehand the type and level of service each community would choose for financing under the
Project. Hence, it is currently not possible to conduct sub-project level economic analyses. The approach adopted
was to collect baseline data on water supply situation in selected districts and to conduct an indicative economic
analysis of alternative improvements in these districts. Specifically, data on the current water situation and
consumption were collected in three of the twelve districts that would be covered under the Project. About 110
households were surveyed in each of the three districts of Kilosa, Rufiji and Mpwapwa. These surveys confirm that
the current water supply situation is difficult - households are consuming small amount of water (about 10 liters per
capita per day), they are spending a significant amount of time in collecting water (often 2-3 hours per day), and
suffer frequently from water-borne diseases such as diarrhoea and dysentery.
3.     For the purpose of conducting an economic analysis, the incremental quantity of water supplied under a
sub-project can be divided into two parts: one part replaces the previous sources and quantity of water used, the
other part is a net increase in water consumption. In this context, benefit of the first part is equal to the savings of
economic costs of consumers who no longer use the former water sources. Benefit of the second part is equal to the
area below the demand curve between the with-project and without-project use of each consumer.
4.     In preliminary calculations, it is assumed that in current water consumption from all sources is replaced by
water from improved sources provided under the sub-project. Although it is expected that water consumption would
increase from its current level of about 10 litres per capita per day, the additional consumption has not been valued
separately. This may lead to underestimation of the benefits from provision of an improved source. The Project is
expected to help generate health benefits by reducing incidence of diarrhoea and dysentery. However, health
benefits have also not been included, mainly because lack of reliable data make these exceptionally difficult to
quantify.
5.     In this Project, then, some of the benefits result from replacing expensive vended water with cheaper water
from the sub-project. However, the majority of benefits accrue from reduction in the time spent in collecting water
from sources such as streams, rivers and wells. The time saved is valued at 30 percent of the unskilled minimum
wage rate to allow for differences between the minimum wage and the unofficial rates prevalent. It is also assumed
that only 70 percent the time saved can actually be spent in commercially productive uses. Thus, half the time
savings are valued in money terms.
Summary of Benefits and Costs
6.     An indicative economic analysis conducted for various alternatives in Kilosa district provides an insight
into the magnitude of benefits arising from time and cost savings. This analysis suggests that benefits from time
savings are large and are often, in themselves, sufficient to justify investments in improved water supply.
Specifically, internal rates of return (IERR) and net present values (NPV) were calculated for the following five
types of improvements: spring protection, hand-dug or drilled well with hand pump, shallow borehole with hand
pump, mechanized deep borehole, and a mechanized deep borehole with a piped scheme. Except for spring



27
protection which result in a negative NPV, all other alternatives result in positive NPVs and in IERRs ranging from
11% to 32%. Sensitivity analysis were conducted for the following scenarios: (a) a 10% increase in investment
costs; (b) a 20% decrease in time savings; and (c) a 30% decrease in price of vended water. This analysis shows that
three of the five options are robust and result in a positive NPV under all of the above conditions. Specifically, the
shallow borehole option and mechanized deep borehole options are more sensitive, with the NPV turning negative
under some of the above conditions.
7.     It is not realistic to expect communities to include an economic analysis in their proposals seeking sub-
project financing. The DWST are also unlikely to have the skills and resources to conduct a detailed economic
analysis of each sub-project submitted for financing. To ensure that these investments follow certain basic financial
and economic principles, the following rules have been adopted: (a) a cap equivalent to US$40 per capita is placed
on MWLD contribution to the sub-project cost; (b) a community participation of at least 5% of the construction cost
of the sub-project is a pre-requisite for financing by MWLD; and (c) the commitment of the community to fully
finance O&M costs is also a pre-requisite for financing by MWLD. To assess whether the investments are and
remain economically viable, sub-project economic performance would be monitored and information collected on
an ongoing basis; in particular an economic analysis of completed sub-projects would be carried on a sample basis
as part of the annual technical audits.



28
ANNEX 5: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
TANZANIA: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Description of the Project and Institutions
1.     RWSS Project would largely operate on a decentralized basis through the transfer of agreed annual sector
conditional grant to selected District Councils (DCs) to finance community RWSS sub-projects in initially three
districts and expand progressively to 12 districts. In parallel, the Project will help build the necessary capacity at
central and local government level to prepare and launch a National RWSS program. MWLD through its Rural
Water Supply department (RWSD) would have overall responsibility for guiding, supervising, monitoring,
evaluating and reporting on project activities. MWLD would also implement the institutional strengthening and
preparation of the National RWSS program component, while DCs, and in special cases, communities would
implement the community RWSS activities. The RWSS Project would be used to support the development of a
financial management system that complies with BP/OP 10.02 on financial management.
Financial Management Assessment
2.     The financial management assessment carried out by the Financial Management Specialist during the
appraisal mission, revealed that generally, the MWLD finance department and the treasuries of the three initial
districts have sound accounting system of formal rules for financial management and guidelines for control of public
finances. Many of these rules have recently been updated and strengthened. These are well documented in the
Local Government Finance Act, 1982 which was amended by the Local Government Act, No.6 of 1999; the Local
Government Financial Memorandum; Local Financial Accounting Manual; and the new Public Finance Act, 2001
which replaced the Exchequer & Audit Ordinance of 1961. Subsequently, there have been on going initiatives to
enhance financial management at both central ministries and local authorities through the Public Financial
Management Reforms Programme (PFMRP) and Local Government Reform Program (LGR). This also includes the
implementation of computerized government accounting systems using the platinum accounting package at all
central ministries, departments and 28 Local authorities and Districts (Phase I) through the Integrated Financial
Management System (IFMS). About 6 out of the 12 Project districts are involved in the IFMS Phase I. All 12
district will be covered under Phase II of the program. Implementation of IFMS has enabled the ministries and
departments through the MOF to have an effective expenditure controls system. The implementation of the new
Public Finance Act which became effective July 01, 2001, and ongoing arrangements by the office of Accountant
General-MOF to prepare the guidelines and regulations and train all accountants, auditors and accounting officers
entrusted with public finances would facilitate the operation of best practice in the financial control. A satisfactory
project accounting and financial management manual describing the accounting system, procedures, internal
controls, chart of accounts and roles and responsibilities of the key staff responsible for IDA finances has been
developed. Therefore the project financial management system is adequate for the project to be presented to the
Board.
Accounting and Financial Arrangements
3.     There is little IDA experience in Tanzania for implementing such a decentralized project except for the
TASAF project. All experiences, especially in the, Water, Agriculture, Education and Health sectors, have only
achieved partial decentralization with implementation control vested in the centre. Due to the lack of capacity at the
district level, adequate arrangements and resources in the areas of capacity building, monitoring and supervisory
roles of MWLD offices have been included as components of the project to ensure effective implementation at the
district level.
4.     The Project Operational Manual (POM) details the funds flow arrangement from the centre to the districts.
The District's consolidated budgets for the appraised and eligible subprojects derived from community proposals
would be reviewed for completeness and approved by the MWLD. The MWLD will sign an annual sub-project
agreement with the DC aggregating all approved community sub-projects. All financial transfers to Project districts
will be on the basis of the annual sub-project agreement with the Project district and will be treated as sector
conditional grants. The MWLD would then release funds in tranches straight to Project district bank accounts
opened specifically for RWSS sub-projects for the payment of eligible expenditure agreed to in the annual sub-



29
project agreement. Communities would however maintain their contributions in their own (WATSAN) account
until such time that the district will request the payment of their contribution to the approved sub-project. The initial
instalment would be equal to 30% of the approved annual sector conditional grant for the DWST; the DWSF would
thereafter be replenished upon submission by DWSTs of statement of expenditures (SOEs). The objectives of these
procedures are to ensure consistent reporting from the districts, the roles and responsibilities of the centre, the
districts and the communities. The Districts would maintain simple but adequate books of accounting to enable
them record; account and report on all financial resources received and disbursed at the Districts. Simplified
reporting formats (included in the POM ) have been developed for use by the districts.
5.     The Project districts would submit financial reports and all supporting documentation to the MWLD as
described in the POM, in order to receive subsequent disbursements for their subprojects. This would be submitted
on a monthly basis. MWLD would then consolidate all these reports into one comprehensive financial statement on
the project. MWLD would be responsible for the preparation of the annual financial statements of the project. The
financial statements would be prepared in accordance with International Accounting Standards and with
requirements of the World Bank FARAH handbook. The financial statements would include at least statements of
sources and uses of funds by category, uses of funds by project activity, reconciliation of special account, a balance
sheet and accompanying notes. Disbursement at the district level, financial management and control of funds shall
be in accordance with the Local Authority Financial Memorandum of 1997 and in conformity with financial
management guidelines outlines in the POM and project financial manual. Project management team staff (finance
and or procurement) should undertake regular visits to the districts as needed, to review the accounting and
procurement documentation and records to ensure compliance with the project agreements and its governing
procedures.
External Audit Arrangements
6.     The annual financial statements of the project would be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the
Bank appointed in sufficient time to carry out the audit; and would be audited in accordance with international
standards. The Bank has a standard TOR for audit which is already incorporated in the financial manual. There
shall be two annual project audits undertaken each year: one for activities up to June (interim audit), and the other at
the end of the calendar year (final audit). Where the traditional disbursement procedure is followed, the auditors
shall provide opinions on: (i) the project financial statements which includes: statement of sources and utilization of
funds, appropriate schedules classifying project expenditures by components and loan categories showing yearly and
cumulative balances and variances and notes to the financial statements, (ii) statement of expenditures, and (iii) the
special account. If in the future the GOT opt to used Report-based disbursement method and with the necessary
amendment to the Project's legal agreement, the auditors shall provide two separate opinions for Special Account
and Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs). In addition, the auditors should review the Districts project accounts.
The auditors would also prepare a management letter to outline any weaknesses identified during the audit and make
recommendations for improving them. By virtue of Government of Tanzania law, the Controller and Auditor
General (CAG) who is the Government auditor is also responsible to audit all government projects funds that are
managed and implemented by the ministries. Therefore CAG becomes automatically the external auditor for this
project. Audited financial statements and a copy of the management letter would be prepared and submitted to the
World Bank within 6 months of the close of each Fiscal Year.
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs)
7.     The initial assessment revealed that notable technical assistance and training is required to ensure that the
Project would be able to produce the full set of FMRs for project monitoring purposes by project effective date.
Using PPA resources, a consultant has been engaged to ensure compliance by the due date. The Project will
integrate all reports into the Financial Management Information System (FMIS) but will follow the existing or
traditional disbursement procedures as outlined in the World Bank Disbursement Handbook until such time that the
GOT decides to move to FMR-based disbursement system. The FMRs would contain: (i) summary of sources and
uses of funds; (ii) uses of funds by category and project activities; (iii) output monitoring (physical progress reports);
and (iv) reconciliation of statement of special account. The action plan to enable the Project to move to the next step
and become fully compliant for FMR-based disbursement was agreed during negotiations.



30
Agreed Financial Management Action Plan
*   During negotiations: agreement was reached on a simplified and customized project FMRs that would be used
for both project monitoring purposes and disbursement;
*   Before the project is effective: a qualified project accountant has been recruited and an additional two Ministry'
qualified accountants has been assigned on a full-time basis to assist the project accountant;
*   Before the project is effective a simplified and customized project FMRs satisfactory to the Bank has been
developed.
Provided the above step are implemented, it is envisaged that project should be FMR ready project monitoring
purposes by Project effectiveness. The decision to adopt periodic report based disbursement procedures would be
made in consultation with a Bank Financial Management Specialist who would:
* review experience to date with the quality of withdrawal submissions, operation of the Special Account,
SOE submissions and documentation retention in the field, and the general effectiveness of project
management and accounting staff,
* ensure that the Special Account has been reconciled and any outstanding issues resolved;
* review supervision reports to assess implementation progress and issues arising on financial management;
* review any available audit information, as well as any other financial reports, with a view to forming an
opinion on the reliability of project accounts; and
* review the FMRs format designed under platinum computerized accounting package.



31
ANNEX 6: PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
TANZANIA: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
A.      Procurement
General
1.     Procurement of works and goods would be carried out in accordance with Guidelines: Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 edition revised January and August 1996, September 1997, and
January 1999). Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for works and goods under International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) and National Competitive Bidding (NCB) and Standard evaluation forms would be used where applicable.
For small works contracts, other simpler versions of documents acceptable to the Bank would be used. These
simpler versions would be included in the Project Operational Manual (POM). Selection of consultants would be
carried out in accordance with Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
(January 1997 edition revised September 1997 and January 1999). Bank's Standard Request for Proposals and
evaluation forms would be used where applicable.
Implementation Arrangements
2.     Procurement for goods, works and consulting services of the sub-projects would be carried out by the
DWSTs; they would be responsible for appraising sub-projects prepared by the WSS Committees and for packaging
contracts for services, works and goods of similar nature to achieve economies of scale. DWSTs would be
responsible for the entire procurement and contract management process. In accordance with new Public
Procurement Act, procurement at district council would be conducted following procedures outlined in Local
Government Financial Memorandum (1997). The Procurement Manual (PM) has been prepared to supplement the
Financial Memorandum. In accordance with the Financial Memorandum, District Executive Director (DED)
approves contract of value up to TShs 2.0 million (US$ 2,000 equivalent). Above TShs 2.0 million, the approval
has to be made by the District Council Tender Board. No external approval is required.
3.     Procurement capacity in the District Councils has been rated weak under the procurement capacity
assessment of the implementing agency. The RWSD has recruited a Procurement Specialist whose role would be to
train DWST staff in procurement, contract management, and filing and recording systems. DWSTs would also be
responsible for selection of consultants who would assist them preparing designs and technical specifications and
cost data, drafting of bidding documents and supervising construction.
4.     As part of capacity building, DWSTs would include selected members of the WSS Committees in specific
procurement steps, such as bid opening, bid evaluation and contract management, so that procurement
responsibilities could be transferred for simple construction such as hand-dug wells, spring protection and
construction of latrines.
5.     The RWSD would be responsible for procurement of limited number of vehicles, handpumps for
community water sub-project and office equipment for its headquarters and regional offices and for the selection of
consultants. The RWSD has assigned one of its senior staff to be responsible for day to day management of the
Project, who would report directly to the Director, and a Senior Engineer to deal with procurement under the Project.
The latter is already conversant with IDA procurement procedures, but would receive further training during the
Project. The procurement capacity of the RWSD at headquarters is considered adequate for the type of procurement
it is expected to carry out under the Project.



32
Scope of Procurement
6. Procurement under the Project would involve the following:
(i)    Sub-Projects: (estimated to cost US$15.60 million) they would mostly consist of bore-hole and hand-dug
well constructions, pumping equipment, water supply and distribution systems for small towns, protection of
springs, household water catchment facilities and latrines. Contracts would be packaged by DWSTs to regroup
services, works and goods of similar nature. Procurement procedures are specified in the POM; no ICB is
envisaged.
(ii)   Goods: (estimated to cost US$2.85 million) would consist of limited number of vehicles, equipment
(including handpumps) and office supplies for the RWSD and DWSTs. RWSD would package contracts in a
rationale manner for ICB or NCB procurement. The RWSD annual work plan would specify the procurement plan
and budget for goods. DWSTs would also procure a limited amount of goods as specified in their annual work plan
to be approved by RWSD. ICB is envisaged under the handpumps and maintenance services procurement.
(iii)  Consultant Services contracts (totalling US$7.00 million) would be awarded to firms, individuals and
NGOs. About US$ 1.0 million would be used by RWSD to engage an international firm to assist them to develop a
FMS, a MIS, procurement arrangement, stakeholder consultation, and the preparation of the national RWSS
program. An additional US$ 5.35 million would be used by DWSTs to build their capacity and engage NGOs and
local consulting firms to assist communities prepare sub-projects, technical designs and supervise construction, and
for capacity building and training activities. An estimated US$ 0.65 million would be allocated to overall sector
strengthening and training activities.
(iv)   Incremental Operating Cost: An estimated amount of US$ 0.60 million, out of which the Bank would
contribute US$ 0.50 million, is included in the Project cost for paying incremental RWSD recurrent costs such as
field supervision expenses, office management (eg. communication) and vehicle operations associated with the
Project.
Procurement Notices
7.     A General Procurement Notice (GPN) would be published in the UN Development Business and in a daily
national newspaper of wide circulation after negotiations. The GPN would be updated annually for outstanding ICB
and large consultancy services. Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) would be required for goods and works
contracts to be procured under ICB and NCB and for consultant contracts. SPNs would be published in a daily
national newspaper of wide circulation. Specific notices would also be posted at the district and community levels,
for sub-projects.
8.     The RWSD would also publish annually in national and local newspapers a "Promotional Procurement
Notice (PPN)" in a format included in the POM to promote business opportunities to local contractors and
suppliers. The PPN would indicate the likely dates at which bid documents would be made available.
Procurement Plans
9.     A global procurement plan covering the entire Project period and a specific procurement plan for the first
year of implementation including contract packaging, estimated cost; type of contract; procurement method; and
procurement schedule would be submitted to IDA for review before Credit effectiveness. The detailed procurement
plan for the first year was agreed upon during negotiations. By April I of each year, RWSD would prepare and
submit to IDA a specific procurement plan for the particular year as part of annual work plan. The appraisal
document of each approved sub-project would include a detailed procurement schedule for completing the sub-
project.



33
Procurement Methods
10.    Sub-projects: Since contracts of more than US$ 300,000 equivalent are not expected, civil works
contracts would be procured through NCB according to the Guidelines. Contracts estimated to cost below US$
50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 1.0 million may be awarded after solicitation of
quotations from at least three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form
of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to
the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources
to complete the contract successfully. Contracts estimated to cost more than US$50,000 but less than US$300,000,
up to an aggregate of US$13.0 million may be awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. Direct contracting could be used after approval of
the Bank.
11.    Goods: To the extent possible, the contracts for goods would be grouped into packages estimated to cost
more than US$100,000 equivalent and would be procured through ICB by the RWSD. Preference for domestically
manufactured goods would apply. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent would be procured
through NCB prescribed according to the Guidelines. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent,
up to aggregate amount of US$ 750,000 would be procured through IAPSO in accordance with the Guidelines or
through shopping procedures by soliciting at least three quotations from different suppliers, in accordance with the
Guidelines and the June 9, 2000 Bank Memorandum "Guidance on Shopping".
12.    Selection of Consultants: All consulting services contracts costing more than US$100,000 equivalent for
firms would be awarded through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method. Consulting service contracts
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent for firms may be awarded through the Consultants' Qualifications
selection method. For contracts of a routine nature estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent such as
design and supervision of civil works for community subproject, the Least Cost Selection (LCS) method may be
used. Individual consultants would be selected in accordance with provisions of paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 of the
Guidelines. In exceptional cases, Single-Source selection may be used in accordance with provisions of paragraphs
3.8 to 3.11 of the Guidelines. Shortlists for contracts costing less than US$ 100,000 equivalent may consist of
national firms only in accordance with provision of paragraph 2.7 of the Guidelines provided that a sufficient
number of qualified firms (at least three) are available at competitive costs. However, if foreign firms have
expressed interest, they should not be excluded from consideration. The use of NGOs would be in accordance with
the provision of paragraph 3.14 of the Guidelines.
Bank Review
13.    Table B presents the prior review thresholds. Each contract for goods estimated to cost US$100,000
equivalent or more as well as the first two contracts per district estimated to cost below US$100,000 would be
subject to prior review as per paragraph 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 of the Guidelines. Other contracts would be subject
to post review in accordance with paragraph 4 of Appendix I of the Guidelines. Contracts for civil works under
community sub-projects estimated to cost US$ 300,000 equivalent or more (if any) would be subject to prior review
in accordance with the procedures of paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I of the Guidelines. The first two contracts of
value US$50,000 equivalent or more each per District would be subject to prior review.
14.    For Consultants services, all terms of reference and single source contracts would, regardless of contract
amount, be subject to prior review. Contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more for firms would be
subject to prior review in accordance with procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I of the
Consultants Guidelines. With respect to each contract for employment of individual consultants estimated to cost
US$50,000 equivalent or more, the qualification, experience, terms of reference, and terms of employment of the
consultants would be submitted to IDA for prior review. Other procurements subject to IDA review would include:
training as well as exceptional extensions to non-prior review contracts raising their values to levels equivalent or
above the prior review thresholds. All consultancy services not subject to prior review would be subject to post
review in accordance with procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix l of the Consultants Guidelines.



34
B.     Disbursement
15.    Disbursements and withdrawal procedures are detailed in the World Bank Disbursement Handbook (1992
edition). All disbursements are subject to the conditions of the Credit Agreement and the procedures defined in the
Disbursement Letter. The proposed IDA Credit of US$ 26.0 million would be disbursed over four years with an
expected Project Completion date of December 31, 2005 and a Closing Date of June 30, 2006. The proposed
allocation of Credit proceeds is shown in Table C below.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs)
16.    All applications to withdraw proceeds from the Credit account will be fully documented except for
expenditures against contracts (i) with an estimated value of US$300,000 or less for works; (ii) US$100,000 or less
each for goods and consulting firms; (iii) US$50,000 or less each for individual consultants; and (iv) all community
sub-projects, training and incremental operating costs, which may be claimed on the basis of certified Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs). Documentation supporting expenditures claimed against SOEs will be retained at MWLD and
will be available for review as requested by IDA supervision missions and project auditors.
Special Account
17.    To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures for goods works and services, the Government will
open a Special Account in a commercial bank to cover part of IDA's share of eligible expenditures to be managed
and administered by MWLD. The authorized allocation of US$ 1,500,000 for the Special Account will cover an
estimated four months of eligible expenditures financed by IDA. Initially, the authorized allocation will be limited to
US$ 750,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the credit account plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered shall be equal to SDR 4 million. Replenishment of funds from IDA will be
made upon evidence of satisfactory utilization of the advance, reflected in the Statement of Expenditure (SOE) or on
full documentation of payments above the SOE thresholds. MWLD will be responsible for submitting monthly
replenishment applications with appropriate supporting documents for expenditure. to the extent possible, all of
IDA's share of expenditures should be paid through the special account. If ineligible expenditures are found to have
been made from the special account, the Government will be obligated to refund the cost and submit evidence with
the next request for replenishment. In addition, if the Special Account remains inactive for more than six months, the
government may be requested to refund to IDA the amounts advanced in the Special Account replenishment
applications with appropriate supporting documents for expenditure. To the extent possible, all of IDA's share of
expenditures should be paid through the Special Account.



35
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Cons.     Other2
Expenditure Category               ICB      NCB          Services  Method   N.B.F. Total
Cost
1. Community Subprojects              0.00     14.50       0.00      1.10    0.00    15.60
(0.00)    (13.00)     (0.00)    (1.00)  (0.00) (14.00)
2. Goods                              1.35      0.75       0.00      0.75    0.00     2.85
(1.35)    (0.75)     (0.00)    (0.75)  (0.00)   (2.85)
3. Consultant Services and Training   0.00      0.00       6.25      0.75     0.00    7.00
(0.00)    (0.00)     (6.25)    (0.75)  (0.00)   (7.00)
4. Incremental Operating Costs        0.00      0.00       0.00      0.60    0.00     0.60
(0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.50)  (0.00)   (0.50)
5. PPA Refinancing                    0.00      0.00       0.00      0.55     0.00    0.55
(0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.55)  (0.00)   (0.55)
6. Unallocated                        0.00      0.00       0.00      1.10     0.00    1.10
(0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (1.1 0)  (0.00)  (1.1 0)
Total                               1.35    16.35        6.25     4.85     0.00   27.70
(1.35)   (13.75)     (6.25)    (4.65)   (0.00)  (26.00)
1/       Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2/       Includes shopping, IAPSO, direct purchase, direct contracting and selection of consultants
N.B.F. = Not Bank-Financed (includes government expenditures)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure Category      Contract Value    Procurement      Contracts Subject to
Threshold (US$)   Method           Prior Review (US$)
1. Community Sub-projects > 300,000         ICB              All contracts
> 50,000 but less NCB              First two contracts per district. Ex-Post
than 300,000                       thereafter
< 50,000          At least 3 quotations Ex-Post
2. Goods                  > 100,000         ICB              All contracts
< 100,000         NCB              First two contracts per district. Ex-Post
thereafter
< 30,000          Shopping/IAPSO   Ex-Post
3. Consulting Services and
Training
Firms                     > 100,000         QCBS             All contracts
< 100,000         CQ /LCS          First 2 contract per district. Ex-Post
thereafter
< 100,000         SSS              All contracts
Individuals               > 50,000          IC                All contracts
< 50,000         IC                Ex-Post (except TOR, shortlist, and
I contract)
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:            US$ [TBD]
Note: Regardless of threshold, the Bank would require to review all TORs.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
Weak



36
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: Once every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category          US$ million                Financing Percentage
(1) Community Subprojects                   14.00     100% of amounts disbursed
(2) Goods (Vehicles and Equipment)           2.85     100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 90%
of local expenditures for other items procured locally)
(3) Consultants' Services and Training       7.00     100%
(4) Incremental Operating Costs              0.50     100% of foreign expenditures
90% of local expenditures
(5) PPA Refinancing                          0.55     100%
(6) Unallocated                              1.10
Total Project Costs                         26.00
Total                                       26.00
Notes:
(a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the
Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
(b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services
supplied from the territory of the Borrower.



37
ANNEX 7: PROJECT PROCESSING TIMETABLE
TANZANIA: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Timetable step                                     Key Dates
Original        Plan           Actual
1. Concept Review                                                    08/30/00        08/30/00
2. RVP/ROC/OC Sign-off
3. PID to Infoshop                                                   08/31/00        08/31/00
4. PID received by Infoshop                                                          12/13/00
5. Begin Preparation                                                 01/01/01        01/29/01
6. Decision Meeting                                                   10/01/01       10/01/01
7. Authorization to Appraise/Negotiations (in principle)              10/10/01       10/01/01
8. Update PID to Infoshop                                                            09/14/01
9. Update PID received in Infoshop                                                   09/14/01
10. EA received in Infoshop                                                          09/28/01
11. Begin Appraisal                                                 10/22-30/01   11/27-12/07/01
12. Send Notice/Issue Invitation to Negotiations                                     12/27/01
12. Begin Negotiations                                              11/11-15/01    01/29-30/02
13. Obtain Clearance of Documents
14. Bank Approval                                  I    _     _      01/30/02     _  03/21/02
15. Effectiveness                                                    05/01/02
Prepared by:
Rural Water Supply Division of the Ministry of Water and Livestock Development
Preparation Assistance:
N/A
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                  Bank Unit                          Speciality
A. Brown                     AFTUI              Sr. Sanitary Engineer
A. Locussol                  AFTU I             Team Leader - Pr. Water and Sanitation Specialist
M. Kaniaru                   LEGAF              Counsel
S. Gaginis                   LOAFG2            Disbursement Officer
S. Gulyani                   AFTUI             Economist
W. Gichuri                   INFWP              Community WSS Economist
M. Sabai/M Koen              AFMQK             Financial Mgt. Specialist/Sr. Financial Mgt. Specialist
R. Kayani/ P. Tegwa          AFTQK              Lead Procurement Specialist/ Procurement Specialist
S. Omar Fye/A. Dalfelt       AFTES              Sr. Environmental Specialist
K. Ivarsdotter               AFTES              Sr. Social Development Specialist
P. San Juan                  AFTUI             Program Assistant
Peer Reviewers
P. Dongier                   SDV                Sr. Private Sector Development Specialist
J. Sara                      AFTU2              Sr. Water and Sanitation Specialist
R. Verspyck                  AFTU2              Pr. Water and Sanitation Specialist



38
ANNEX 8: DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
TANZANIA: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Project Implementation Plan
Draft Project Operational Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Back to Office Reports
Financial Management Assessment
Procurement Assessment
Project Information Document
C. Other
Documents/Studies carried out by MWLD
Draft National Water Policy (MWLD, 2001)
Draft Project Concept Note
Draft Project Operational Manual (MWLD, 2001)
Initial RWSS District Assessment Report (MMK Consult, 1999)
Supply Chain Study (SKAT, 1999)
Social Assessment Study (Binamungu, 2001)
Environmental Assessment study (Ako, 2001)
Draft Training Strategy Report (Ross Kidd, 2000)
District Operational Manual (Ross Kidd, 2001)
DWSTs Trainer's Guide (Ross Kidd, 2001)
Financial Management Manual (Fumbuka, 2001)
Data Collection and Economic Analysis (Kulindwa, 2001)
Draft Preliminary Institutional Assessment Report (Kiragu, 2001)
First Year Investment Program for Mpwapwa, Kilosa and Rufij i (Don Consult/Netwas, 2001)
MWLD Water Supply and Waste Disposal Design Manual (MOW, 1997)
Draft Rural Water Policy (Mujwahusi, 1999)
District Profiles (RWSD)
Selection of additional Project Districts Report (RWSD, 2001)
Experiences for RWSS Projects in Tanzania
MWLD Annual Reports (1996, 1997, 1998)



39
ANNEX 9: STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS
TANZANIA: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Difference between
expected and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions              disbursements
Project ID  Project Name                         FY      IBRD   IDA      GRANT    Cancel.   Undisb.  Orig.       Frm Rev'd
No. of closed projects: 98
P002804     Agric Research                         1998              21.8                         9.5          4
P057187     FIDP II                                2000              27.5                          18        13.6
P002789     Human Resource Dev I                   1998              20.9                         3.4         0.6
P058627     Health Sector Development Program      2000               22                         15.6        -0.6
P046872     Lake Victoria Env                      1997                       10.1                0.4         0.2
P046837     Lake Victora Env.                      1997              15.1                         5.9         0.7
P073397     Lower Kihansi Environmental Management  2002              6.3                           6         0.4
P002753     Nat Ext Proj Ph.ll                     1997              31.1                         7.4        10.2        2
P049838     Prvatization                           2000              45.9                        34.7        16.4
P060833     Public Serv Ref Prog                   2000              41.2                          31        -7.1
P071012     Primary Education Development Program  2002               150                         100       -41.7
P002757     Railways Restructur                    1991               76                11.3      3.6        12.9      1.8
P002770     Roads II                               1994             170.2                         107       118.6     43.2
P050441     Rural & Micro Fin Svc                  2000                2                          1.5         1.3
P069982     Regional Trade Fac. Proj. - Tanzania   2001               15                         14.7         2.2
P065372     Social Action Fund Project             2001               60                         49.1         4.2
P002822     Tanzania PSAC I                        2000             190.8                       111.2       -67.7
P047761     Tax Administrabon                      1999               40                         26.5        15.9
P002797     TZ Songo Songo Gas Dev. & Power Gen.   2002              183                          183
P038570     TZ:River Basin Mgm.Smal                1997              26.3                         8.6         6.9
P002758     Urban Sector Rrehab                    1996              105                           25        19.1
Overall result                                    Result           1250.1     10.1      11.3      762       110.1       47
Active
Projctie   Closed Projects    Total
Projecsb
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):   363.10         2,928.20    3,291.34
of which has been repaid:     0.61           599.90      600.53
Total Undisbursed (IBRD and IDA):   761.56             1.39      762.95



40
Tanzania
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 10/31/2001
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                   Disbursed
FY Approval     Company                       Loan  Equity Quasi Partic  Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
1996/99        AEF A&K Tanzania                0.21      0    0     0    0.21     0    0    0
1997           AEF Aquva Ginner                0.68      0    0     0    0.68     0    0    0
1998           AEF Blue Bay                    1.45      0    0     0    1.45     0    0    0
2001            AEF Boundary Hil               0.2       0     0    0    0.2       0   0     0
1996           AEF Contiflora                  0.35      0     0    0    0.35     0    0    0
1998           AEF Drop Zanziba                0.32      0    0     0    0.32     0    0    0
1997           AEF Hort. Farms                 0.3       0    0     0    0.3      0    0    0
1998           AEF Maji Masafi                 0.32      0     0    0    0.32     0    0    0
1996           AEF Milcafe                     0.18      0     0    0    0.18     0    0    0
1994           AEF Moshi Lthr                  0       0.19    0    0    0      0.19   0    0
1999           AEF Musoma Fish                 1.5       0     0    0    1.5      0    0    0
1997/99        AEF Pallsons                    0.33      0    0     0    0.33     0    0    0
1995           AEF Tanbreed                    0.7       0     0    0    0.7      0    0    0
1996           AEF Zainab Grain                          0     0    0    0.76     0    0    0
2000            AEF Zan Safari                 0.7       0     0    0    0.7       0   0     0
1997           DATEL                           0       0.48    0    0    0      0.48   0    0
1994           Eurafrican Bank                 0       0.73    0    0    0      0.73   0    0
1996           IHP                             0.94     0.6    0    0    0.94    0.6   0    0
2000           IOH                             2.5       0     0    0    2.5       0   0     0
2000            NBC                            0        10     0    0    0      3.44   0     0
1993           TPS (Tanzania)                  6.13    0.87  1.04   0    6.13   0.87 1.04   0
1991/97        TPS Zanzibar                    0       0.03    0    0    0      0.03   0    0
1994           Tanzania Brewery                0         6     0    0    0        6    0    0
1998           Tanzania Jubilee                0       0.29    0    0    0      0.29   0     0
1994           ULC Leasing                     0.38    0.95    0    0    0.38   0.76   0     0
Total Portfolio:               17.95   20.14  1.04   0   17.95  13.39 1.04    0
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan     Equity   Quasi   Partic
2001      AEF 2000 Indust            1600        0       0        0
2000      NBC                       30000        0       0        0
1998      TTCL                         0     20000      0         0
Total Pending Commitment:   31600     20000       0        0



41
ANNEX 10: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
TANZANIA: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Tanzania at a glance                                                          9/24/01
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Saharan       Low-
Tanzania     Africa   income      Development diamond-
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                         33.7       659     2,459                  Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                      270        480       420
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                         9.1       313     1,030
Average annual growth, 199440
Population (I%)                                         2.6        2.6       1.9
Labor force (%)                                         2.6        2.6       2.4      GNI                             Gross
per                             pnmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199440)                                 capita           \  /         enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)    51
Urban population (% of total population)                 33         34        32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         45         47        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 85         92        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               31         ..        ..           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)     54         55        76
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     24         38        38
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)    67         78        96                   Tanzania
Male                                                   67         85       102                   Low-income group
Female                                                 66         71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990       1999      2000
IEconomnic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                              ..       4.3       8.8       9.0
Gross domestic investment/GDP                    ..    26.1       15.3      17.7                      Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                ..     12.6      13.6      14.7
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      ..       1.3       3.3       8.7
Gross national savings/GDP                      ..       5.9       2.9       8.6                        i
Current account balance/GDP                      ..    -17.9     -12.3      -9.2      Domestic        * k
Interest payments/GDP                            ..      1.1       0.7       1.4     savings                       Investment
Total debt/GDP                                   ..    151.2      91.9      78.7     savings
Total debt service/exports                    23.5      34.2      15.7      15.3
Presentvalueof debtGDP                           ..       ..      53.1      29.1
Presentvalueof debt/exports                     ..        ..     373.5     189.2
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999       2000    200044
(average annual growth)
GDP                                    ..      2.9       3.6       5.1       6.2                    Tanzania
GDP per capita                         ..      0.1       2.4       1.3       4.0                    Low-income group
Exports of goods and services          ..      9.3      18.6      18.4       1.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999      2000      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                     ..      46.0      44.8      45.1     20
Industry                                        ..      17.7      15.4      15.8     10 .
Manufacturing                                  ..      9.3        7.4       7.5      o         Z        _
Services                                        ..      36.4      39.8      39.1    .10                 97     98   99  o0
Private consumption                              ..    80.9       89.8      84.8     .20
General govemment consumption                   ..      17.8       6.9       6.6                     GDI       O-GDP
Imports of goods and services                   ..     37.5       25.6      23.8
(average annual growth)                    1980-90  1990-00       1999      2000     Growth of exports and imports ('%)
Agriculture                                     ..       3.2       4.2        3.4    50. 
Industry                        ,.                       3.1       5.4       7.2     25
Manufacturing                                  ..      2.7        3.8       4.6   ,                       / 
Services                                        ..       2.7       5.4        5.8    _     2          5 >   '    Y8 99    co
Private consumption                             ..       2.2       5.2      -0.9             9                 9
General govemment consumption                   ..       2.5      -1.5        5.0   _50
Gross domestic investment                       ..      -1.4      -1 .5       75                -  Exports  *-    Imports
Imports of goods and services                   ..       0.9       8.7        0.1
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



42
Tanzania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999      2000     Inflation I%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                        40
Consumer prices                              30.2     35.8       7.9      5.9     30
Implicit GDP deflator                          ..     20.2      10.3      5.4    20
Government flnance                                                                10
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               o
Currentrevenue                                  ..    11.4      10.6     10.7            95     96    97    99    99    oo
Current budget balance                         .,     -1.1       0.5     -0.5            -     GDP deflator  :  CP
Overall surplus/dericit                        ..     -3.8      -3.3     -5.8
TRADE
(UJS$ millions)                             1980     1990      1999      2000      Export and Import levels (USS n-ll.)
Total exports (fob)                             ,,    352        541      600     zoDo
Coffee                                       ..       85        77       84
Cotton                                       ..       75        28       38     1,500
Manufactures                                  .       73        22       34
Total imports (cif)                             .    1,297     1,631     1,592    1. 
Food                                         ..       59       200      176      sao
Fuel and energy                              ..      174       104       95
Capital goods                                ..      540       710      770        o
94   9s   98   97   98   98   0o
Export price Index (1995=100)                  ..      75         84       83
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..      92        84        85                 aExpots      *fImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..      82         99       98
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1980     1990       1999     2000      Current accountbalance to GDP(%)
Exports ofgoodsandservices                   673      519      1,195     1,327 
Emports of goods and services               1,21      1,557     2,244   2,1483
Resource balance                             -548   -1,038    -1,049     -819
Net income                                    -14     -186       -66      -43          *    *0
Net current transfers                         22      461         34       35         I                   I
Current account balance                      -540     -764    -1,081     -827     -20
Financing items (net)                        474      748      1,223     1,176
Changes in net reserves                       66        16      -143     -348     J3 -.
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS rillions)         ..     124        776      950
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)              8.2    195.1     744.8    800.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999      2000
(USS millions)                                                                     Composition of 2000 debt (USS rill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        5,322    6,438     8,053     7,104
IBRD                                       198      243         16       11                   62s2 
IDA                                        242     1,250     2,594     2,593               96
Total debt service                            161      179       196      213
IBRD                                        20       44          8        6                     '             2593
IDA                                          2       14        43        51
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            485      677        737      763          2795
Officlalcreditors                          219      208        177      111
Private creditors                           99        4        -13      -11                         B
Foreign direct investment                    0        0        183      193                         - w     24
Portfolio equity                             0        0          0        0                          s70
World Bank program
Commitments                                109      537        159      272      A - IBRD                   E- Bilateral
Disbursements                               69       187       199      142      a-IDA    D-Other muitlatera  F- Private
Principal repayments                         5       32         30       37      C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Netflows                                    64      155        169      105
Interest payments                           17       26         21       20
Net transfers                               47      129        148       85
Development Economics                                                                                               9124/01



43
ANNEX 11: LETTER OF SECTOR POLICY
TANZANIA: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project






THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
P O Box 9111,
Telegram: "Treasury", Dar Es Salaam                                DAR ES SALAAM
Telephone: 2111174/6, Fax 2110326, Telex: 41329
(All Official communications should be        a' 6 FEB 2002
addressed to the Permanent Secretary to
the Treasury and not individuals).
In rcply please quote:
Ref. No.. .TYC/A3/40/O1                                   1' Februarv, 2002
Re    N  ..............................
James W Adams,
Country Director (Tanzania and Uganda),
World Bank Country Office,
DAR ES SALAAM
Dear Mr. Adams,
LETTER OF POLICY ON RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
1. I am writing on behalf of the G3overnment of the United Republic of Tanzania to requcst a
credit of USS 26 million from the International Dcvclopment Association (IDA) in support of the
Proposcd Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (RWSSP). The Project Development
Objective is to ensure access to improved and sustained water and sanitation services in the rural
commrunities of Tanzania. The project would support a decentralized and demand responsive
delivery mechanism and help build the institutional foundation for implementing National RWSS
Progranune both at the central and local government levels.
Background
2. The Government of the U'nited Republic of Tanzania (GOT) has ideiitified rural water supply
and sanitaLion services as one of its pillars for poverty alleviation and rural development strategy.
'This letter of sector policy represents the essential elements of the Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation (RWSS) component of the newly formulated National Water Policy. Sanitation is
hereby defined narrowly as excreta management and hygiene promotion. The RWSS principles
ind specific elements below seck to ensure convergence between provisions for services under
thc Local Govemment Services ACL (1982) and the Medium Term Strategic Plan of the Ministry
of Water and Livestock Development - MWLD (2001-2006). Thc specific policies are integrated
into the National Water Policy and include the Water Resources Management and the UJrban
Water and Sewerage Components.



RIJRAL WATER AND SANITATION AT A GLANICE
3. Despite significant invesLment in the RWSS sector since the early 1970s, less than 50%' of the
rural population has access to a reliable water supply and sanitation services. About 80% of
Tanzania's 30.0 milJion population live in rural areas. Due to poor maintcnance arrangemcnts, a
significant percentage of RWSS systems are not functioning properly. Investment lcvels are low
and support by donors has usually been provided in a fragmented fashion; also, little emphasis has
been placed on sustainability. The 1991 national water policy indicated a clcar departure from the
era of "free watcr" launched in 1967, by introducing thc principle of cost sharing between GOT
and communities and transferring the responsibility to operate and maintain RWSS schemes to
village water committees.
The new National Water Policy (2001) emphasizes:
*  A demand-responsive approach whereby communities choose service levels based on their
perceived needs au-d ability to pay;
*  An upfront contribution to capital cosLs and the full financing of O&M costs by communities
as a means to foster ownership of the project; and
*  Implementation and management of schemes by communities with the assistanice of local
goveriunenits, NGOs and tht; private sector.
OVERALL POLICY OBJECTWVE
4. The overall policy objective of the GOT is to reduce poverty through improved public health,
quality of life and support or economic activities in rural areas of Tanzania. 'T'he GOT will create
the enabling environiient and appropriate incentives for the delivery of reliablc, sustainable and
affordable watcr supply and sanitation services by shifting from the "provision of RWSS
services' to the  "facilitation and financing of RWSS services." According to the MWVLD's
Medium Tenn Strategic Plan (2001-2006), Lhe expected outcome will be to improve water and
sanitation scrvices by at least 3.0% per year raising water supply coverage to 60% with 80% of
the systems functioning at all times and over 60% of schemes run by autonomous user enitities by
2006. It is also the wish of the GOT to raise coverage for RWS services countrywide from 50% to
90% by year 2025 within the contcxt of the GOT's Development Vision 2025. The CGOT will
develop a National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Program (NRWSSP) based on the lessons
leamt from the implementation of the various projects and programs in the country by June 2003.
When the NRWSSP is available, it is the wish of the government to then restructure the RWSS
services fTom project approach into an overall Sector-Widc Approach to Planning (SWAP) aimed
at establishing an enabling environment foT all actors to recognize and agree on the adoption of a
common approach and best practices lo achieve imTiproved sector performance, more effective usc
of resoutrces. and increased resource flows into the sector.



CORE SECTOR PRINCIPLES
1.   Efficiency Principle  Water is an economic good and shall bc managed and priced
accordingly  Appropriatc safely nets should howevcr be
esLablished to protect thc poor and vulnerable groups
2.   Subsidiaritv Principle  Management of RWSS services should be focused at thie
lowest appropriate level. Financial support for RWSS services 
shall be provided to Local Govenmments that implement
policies anid programs aimed at maling RWSS operations
sustainable
3.   Integration Principle  A holistic approach to the use of water resources, eender
mnainstreaming and complementary hygiene promotion should
be employed in sector planning and investment decisions
SPECIFIC OBJFCTIVES
o  District RWSS Plans: The (;(I) will assist Local Governments prepare district RWSS
Plans that meet Financial. economic and equity objectives.
u Decentralization of RWSS Services: The GOT will decentralize to Local Governments, the
ownership of assets and the responsibility for deciding oni RWSS rehabilitation/extension
programs and establish appropriate cost recovery arrangements. Management of the day-to-
day operations of the system will however he carried out by a designated Community Water
User Entity and/or tbe private sector instead of a Local Government Department.
* Incentives for Sustainable RWSS Operations: the GOT will support the financing and
upgrading of RWSS services in Local Governments that focus on upgrading of technical
quaiity and sustainable operations and maintenance and in particular sub-contracting of
operaLions to small private operators for piped schemes and to community caretakers for
point sources.
O Promotion of Private Sector Participation: The GOT will put in place a regulatory
framework and an incentive environment for private sector participation (PSP) and assist
Local Govemmients in designing affordable and sustainable PSP solutions.
3



KEY RWSS POLICY El;EMENTS
Efficiency Principle:
5. Appropriate Financial Policy and Cost Recovery: Water resources are finite and should
tlherefor-e be managed as an cconomic good. Approaches to financing of RWSS that ensure
susLainability of serviccs will guide sector dccisions and practices. The GoT's financial policy
for RWSS sub - sector is for communities to pay at least 5 percent cash contribution to the
investillellt cost and 10() percent cost recovery for O&M. A subsidy cciling estimated at $40 per
capiLa for RWSS sub-projects has been set. and will be reviewed on an annual basis. Idcally,
Local GovernmenTs should prioritize investniients where willingness to pay is highest. and
ther-efore higher levels of cost recovery from communities will be encouraged, especially when
there is over-subscription by communities to the District RWSS Fund. Pricing of water supply
shall include costs of abstraction, production, transmission aned distribution. Pricing should be
translated into customer friendly WSS user charges and cost recovery strategies that reflect in the
short-temi the O&M costs and gradually movc to cover deprcciation and systems expansion
costs over time.
6. Improved Planning and Implementation of RWSS Programs based on Community
Demand: The GOT will move away from top-down, supply driven sector development and shift
towards demand-responsive sector developmenit and management. This approach will ensurc
greater choicc for communities of RWSS services and encourage more demand-responsive
approaches to financing that reflect users willingness-to-pay for scrvices.
7. Water and Sanitation and Safety Nets for the Poor: Given the importance of water to
basic life functions and survival, appropriate and equitable safety nets shall be introduced in the
design and managemcnt of RWSS services to ensure minimal survival supplics to the poor and
vulnerable groups. This shall however be designed within a broad context of sound sustainable
operations and through the community management process.
Subsidiarity Principle:
8. Decentralized RWSS Services: All RWSS services shall operate under a Tegine of
decentralized management. District Watcr and Sanitation Teams (DWSTs) with multi-
disciplinauy staffing will be established in all designated district councils of Tanzania to guide
the development of District Water and Sanitation Plans, appraisal of community sub-projects,
supervision of construction and certification of works. Districts will establish District Water and
Sanitation Funds (DWSFs) out of which communities will apply for financial support and
technical assisTancc to implement their projects. The supervision of the DWST and the DWSF
will be under the appropriaLe districT council sub-committee responsible for water and sanitation
activities and will act as the approving board for appraised sub-projects.
9. Delegated Management of System Operations: Water User Entities shall operate on the
basis of strict separation of assets ownership and management of systems operations. Ownership
of assets under this policy element shall appropriately be vested in a Local Government or a
legally registered Water User Entity. A Water User Entity could be a Water Company or a
4



Trustee or a Water User Association or a Water Committee, which is legally registered. rhis
will allow  the establishment for operationally independent and financially accountablc
community systems.
10. Private Sector Participation: The GOT endorses private sector participation in productive
and commercial activitics (including RWSS services) as the over-arching instrument for
economic ancd social growth. Private sector participation, including options for upstream
community planning support services, drillilng and construction services and downstream
services such as management and service contracts, will be explored for the management of
RWSS systems. Each private sector involvement will however be appraised on its own merit
and opportunities for economies of scale factured in. The GOf recognizcs the role of Non-
Goverrnmental Organizations (NGOs) and CommLuity Based Organizations (CB3Os) in
community extension work and as providers of 1i1e-line support to the rural poor. This support
should however be coordinated Lhrough appropriate govemranee afrangemcnts betwecn thc Local
Governments and the NGOs to allow for sustainabic partnership and support in system
operations.
11. Regulation and S(akeholdcr Participation in Management: The GOT shall put in place a
regulatory mechanism for ensuring technical quality assurances and economic operations of all
RWSS systems. The Central Government through MWLD shall sign a Meinorandum of
Understanding with the Local Governuiment specifying the roles and responsibilities of each party
and the commitment to prepare appropriate annual service delivery plans. All Local
Governments and their associated Water User Entities shall enter into an agreement that specifies
technical, commercial and financial objectives of the community sub-project. Such agreements
shall be reviewed penrodically.
12. Institutional Development and Capacity Building: The GOT through the lead technical
agency - Ministry of Water and Livestock Development (MWLD), will as a matter of policy
move gradually away from services provision and become a facilitator for services provision in,
the sector. This will involve new roles and responsibilities for the MWLD (policy dcvelopment
and overall water resources management, technical and commercial quality assurance facilitation
and mobilization of resources, and training), the Local CTovernments (planning and management
oversight of WateT User Entities) and private sector and NGOs (managemtnt of systems
operations and delivery of goods and services). The new roles and responsibilities will in the
short to medium term stretch existing institutional capacities and the human resources base of the
sector. The GOT through the MWLD) will facilitate the acceleration of an institutional and
capacity building efforts in technical, Jegal, financial and economic management of the RWSS
sector.
Integration Principle:
13. Comprehensive Water Resources and Demand Management: Comprehensive water
resources management shall be the framework of all RWSS developmenit in Tanzania. All
projects/programs and later the National RWSS Program shall meet the basic test for efficiency
in the use of water resources. Demand management through appropriate pricing shall become
standard practice in Tanzania. Pricing, allocation rights from Basin Water Offices to Village



Govemments or WUEs as well as comprehensive promotion of conservation practices shall be
enforced.
14. Integration of Sanitation and Environmental Management: WastewaLer anid excreta
management shall go hand in hand with water supply development. All water supply schemes
shall be evaluated against considerationis of wastewater management and septage treatment in the
WUE area of operation. These considerations as well as a developmenit of a coinpreheiisivc
cnvironimental impact assessmenL will be an essential part of thc quality assurance arrangements.
15. Consideration for Gender Issues: Gender consideration will be mainstreamed in all RWSS
acTivities in the sector. The MWALD, the local Govermment and designated Waler User Entities,
shall as a mattcr of policy reflect gender considerations in their operational strategies.
16. Promotion of Hygiene and Bcbavior Change: Relevant hygienc promotion lor positive
behavior transformation as wcll as H1JV/AIDs prevention and mitigation measures shall he
factored in the operational practice of all WUE., operations. Appropriate linkages with Ministry of
Health, and other relevant ministries, existing programs, and other private sector and media
groups will be encouraged to maximize mnessage and process delivery.
CONCLUSION
17. The GOTI will ensure compliance with the above policy reforms. A Technical Advisory
Committee will be established bringing together all key RWSS stakeholders to guide the
implenmentation and provide appropriate forum for ainual reviews of the implementation of these
policies and stratcgics. In the process, the GOT will develop within the MWT,) a credible
Management Information System (IlS) to track developments in the sector and accurnulate best
practices for the implementation of the National RWSS Program.
Yours sincerely,
PERMAN        SECRETARY
6



./ 6ANDA2 -F---  --  - - - - -              36           384
(   re-   t   Lake  Victoria  N  TM mop oear,es pdcoT0p p, dbyfheMrp D-sgo, L   Ther W_rd Book
Lake  Vic -  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ NTh. ko-olono, color, d--oooti-osrdooyothorirbrr-oho
sooorh  op dortoply, orhepot fThe Wor/d  ok
,/ --v'  e      S_ Bukoba  Musam_  "N N,  r-o4omoYi-dnsoltegytosorritorrolr
/       ( ~~~~~~KAG            MR
|'  tRWANDA   c    /                  MARA      N      KENYA                        2
'''  !!  'J   A   f Z  t t    '     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Natron f x, 
/10 BURLJN DI/           NtX (; , Arusha4           Moshi,
/ i                 S .J I  SHINYANGX h hinyanga ce IKLk  - -
/40N  |  \   9SHINAO -           L    /   a iY"'/    N6
A     )K  OMA           .ono       .  -'  .oi  /  .        KI_  ;  __ L' ANJARO  4
K      A RU'yAy                             ARUSHA   K
> T     x ngc    C>'          .' .s ''j                       NBt  N 
----ZAMBiA ~  ~~                    ~   ~           AM/0"',YCr - -ffyOCA
   KI ama  2rA' RI_                                   7
TABTRA
DEM  R'                              L. 
o         S   IT       P    EI-fl
CON                                  SINGIDN C TALS     -   lULl       Z zTbar
6.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
6        ---MI RODEIN BONARE p ,, I
z       ~~~DODOMA'    /             Dar es
-RUKWA          'Salaa
Lake                                        Groeata
8'  R IOD--Tanganyik                        es    Rh  .' >,     ,;  C           A
a RIVERS 34 <- -1--- w MOZAMBIQU4  A      O _
C-          j ~~~MBEY'A               4.
ZWBIA  ~ ~     \~ ~-    >AOCEAN
LJAJv~~~~~otrl ~~Mbeya    - __~. 
0     100   200        ~0-         
KILOMETERS          N  /
IANZAN IALND
RURIAL \A/ATERP SU PPLY ANDNor)                                           0
10  %2 PROJECT ~SANITATION PROJECT                                     -NMtwara
INITIAL PROJECT REGIONS  REGION CAPITALS   w~Sne
W,POETDISTRICTS  %NATIONAL CAPITAL
RUVUMA-.             MAR
MAIN ROADS        REGION BOUNDARIESr""-
>       RAILROADS       --ITRAINLBOUNDARIES    _   ,t/C
-'--RIVERS                     34-          36'-  -       o   " ""'0"'"   t' 



