E492
Vol. 4
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
MINISTRY OF WATER & LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT
Environmental Assessment (EA) Report
for
Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Project (RWSSP)
KILOSA DISTRICT
March 2001
A.M.L. AKO
Senior Associate Consultant
(Environment & Natural Resource)
SERVICEPLAN LTD
P.O. Box 33165, Dar Es Salaam.
F:Yv- 17nnl1f42



TABLE OF CONTENTS
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS ....................................................... III
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ..........................................................V
1.0INTRODUCTION ..........................................................1
1.0 GENERAL                                      .1
1.2 THE STUDY AREA                                   .1
1.3 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES OF THE STUDY                            .2
1.4 SCOPE AND LIMITATIONS                                .2
1.5 GENERAL APPROACH & METHODOLOGY                                .2
1.5.1  GENERAL APPROACH .................         .........................................2
1.5.2 METHODOLOGY ...........................................................3
2.0   POLICY, LEGISLATION, REGULATORY & INSITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK5
2.1   POLICY ..........................................................5
2.2   LEGISLATION AND STANDARDS GOVERNING WATER QUALITY ..........8
2.2.1  LEGISLATION .......................................................... 8
2.2.2 STANDARDS GOVERNING ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY   ....................... 16
2.2.3 EA REQUIREMENTS AND GOT CAPACITY TO HANDLE EIA ................. 22
2.2.4 INSTITUTIONAL NEEDS AND CAPABIUTY TO IMPLEMENT EA
RECOMMENDATIONS .........................................................  25
3.0 PROJECT DESCRIPTION .29
4.0  BIOPHYSICAL AND SOCIO-ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENTS .34
4.1 BIOPHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT .34
4.2 SOCIO-ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT .36
5.0  ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES .39
6.0   MITIGATION MANAGEMENT PLAN & MONITORING                                .42
6.1 MITIGATION MANAGEMENT PLAN .42
6.2 MONITORING .45



6.2      MONITORING ............................................................. 45
7.0      TRAINING  PLAN .............................................................                           47
LIST OF TABLES
TABLE  1:  MITIGATION  PLAN ............................................................                         42
TABLE  2:  CHECKLIST  OF  MONITORING  INDICATORS ...............                                  ..................... 46
TABLE  3:  PROPOSED  TRAINING  PLAN ............................................................. 51
LIST OF MAPS
FIG. 1: THE MAP OF KILOSA DISTRICT -RURAL ROADS AND VILLAGE
CENTRES  ............................................................ 4
FIG. 2:   MAP OF  KILOSA  DISTRICT-AGRO-ECONOMIC  ZONES ..........                                       ........... 33
FIG. 3: MAP OF KILOSA DISTRICT-LAND USE AND VEGETATION COVER ..38
LIST OF APPENDICES
APPENDIX  I:           REFERENCES .............................                  ................................ 52
APPENDIX Il:  SUMMARY OF VILLAGE BASELINE INFORMATION ................ 54
APPENDIX III: WATER SUPPLY STATUS FOR TEN SELECTED VILLAGES.. 66
APPENDIX IV: WATER QUALITY DATA FOR SOME BOREHOLES ................. 66
APPENDIX  V:   LIST  OF AUTHORITIES CONTACTED ....................................... 68
APPENDIX  VI:   TERMS  OF  REFERENCE ........................................................... 69
APPENDIX  VIl:  LIST OF CONSULTANT'S  TEAM ................................................ 70
APPENDIX Vil: CONSULTANT'S CURRICULUM VITAE                                                   . .    71
ii



LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB =    African Development Bank
AIDS =    Acquired Immunity Deficiency Syndrome
ASPS =    Agricultural Sector Programme Support
BAT  =    Best Affordable Technology
BWB =    Basin Water Board
CBOs =    Community Based Organisations
CDOs =    Community Development Officers
CWB =    Central Water Board
DAWASA = Dar Es Salaam Water & Sewerage Authority
DCs =    District Councils
DECs =    District Environment Committees
DED  =    District Executive Director
DHV  =    Foreign Consultant Firm from Netherlands
DWE =    District Water Engineer
DWR =    Division of Water Resource
DWSP =    District Water & Sanitation Plan
DWSSSF = District Water Supply & Sanitation Fund
DWST =    District Water & Sanitation Team
EA   =    Environmental Assessment
EC   =    European Community
EEC  =    European Economic Commission
EIA   =    Environmental Impact Assessment
EIS  =    Environmental Impact Statement
EMP =    Environmental Management Plan
ESAs =    External Support Agencies
EU   =    European Union
FAO  =    Food & Agricultural Organisation
GOT  =    Government of Tanzania
HIV  =    Human Immune Virus
IDA  =    International Development Agency
IIED  =    International Institute for Environment & Development
IRA  =    Institute of Resource Assessment
LAMP =    Land Management Programme
LLL  =    Linked Local Learning
MEM  =    Ministry of Energy & Minerals
MOEC =    Ministry of Education & Culture
MOH =    Ministry of Health
MOW =    Ministry of Water
MWLD =    Ministry of Water & Livestock Development
MTNRE =   Ministry of Tourism, Natural Resource & Environment
NCSSD=    National Conservation Strategy for Sustainable Development
NEAP =    National Environment Action Plan
NEMC=      National Environment Management Council
NEP  =    National Environment Policy
NGOs =    Non-Governmental Organisations
NSPCA=    Norwegian State Pollution Control Authority
NUWA=    National Urban Water Authority
iii



NWP =      National Water Policy
NWRC=    National Water Resource Commission
NWRMP=   National Water Resource Management Policy
MEM  =    Mfuko wa Elimu ya Msingi
O&M  =    Operation & Maintenance
PID  =    Project Information Document
PO   =    Partner Organisation
PWO =      Public Water Office
RBWO=    River Basin Water Office
RWD =    Rural Water Division
RWE =    Regional Water Engineer
RWSS=    Rural Water Supply & Sanitation
RWSSM=   Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Management
RWSSP=   Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Project
SCAPA=    Soil Conservation & Agroforestry Programme
SECAP=    Soil Erosion Control & Agroforestry Programme
STD  =    Sexually Transmitted Disease
TAC  =    Technical Advisory Committee
TANAPA=  Tanzania National Parks
TASAF=    Tanzania Social Action Fund
TBS  =    Tanzania Bureau of Standards
ToR  =    Terms of Reference
UN   =    United Nations
UNCLOS=  United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea
UNEP =    United Nations Environment Programme
UNESCO=  United Nations Education, Scientific & Cultural Organisation
UNICEF=   United Nations Children Fund
VG   =    Village Government
VC   =    Village Chairman
VEO        Village Executive Officer
VIP  =    Ventilated Improved Pit latrine
VWCs=    Village Water Committees
VWSS=    Village Water Supply & Sanitation
WATSAN=  Water & Sanitation
WBO =      Water Basin Office
WEO =      Ward Executive Officer
WHO =    World Health Organisation
WLU =    Water Laboratory Unit
WRM =    Water Resource Management
iv



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.   PURPOSE AND SCOPE OF THE PROJECT
This project is concerned with improvement of water supply, sanitation & hygiene
conditions among the rural communities of Kilosa district, located about 270 km from
the Dar Es salaam City. The project will involve with rehabilitation and construction
of new water supply schemes. The potential water supply schemes include Hand
pump shallow wells (HPSW), Mechanized boreholes (Deep wells) fitted with electric
pumps and Gravity Pipes (GP). That will also include construction and/or
rehabilitation of associated distribution pipe systems.
The project will also focus on sanitation & environmental issues related to rural water
supply. During implementation much attention will also be given to promotion of
AIDS/HIV prevention among the rural communities through education and
awareness campaigns.
II.   RATIONALE AND METHODOLOGY FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
ASSESSMENT (EA) STUDY
(a)   Rationale for EA
The project is still in its design stage and its specific sites for implementation has not
been identified. Thus the EA study for this project could not follow the existing
Tanzania EIA procedures. Alternatively, the study followed a more general approach
that incorporates an overall assessment of program interventions.
The EA study was necessary for this project to ensure that environmental concerns
are incorporated in its designs and that the rural communities are sensitized on
environmental issues related to their rural water supply & sanitation schemes.
Specifically, the objective of the study was to identify potentially negative
environmental impacts of different community sub-projects and propose appropriate
mitigation measures. Ultimately the aim is to develop an EA Checklist and Checklist
of Monitoring indicators as a guideline for conducting environmental assessment of
Rural Water Supply & Sanitation (RWSS) Project.
(b)   Methodology
The study involved on-site physical observation and filling in biophysical & socio-
economic survey forms. It also included informal & formal interviews, focus group
discussion and/or meetings with community members, as well as, other key
informants at village, district and national levels. Consultation with various
stakeholders also provided an opportunity to get their concern on the project and
solicit opinion on mitigation measures.
Ill.   MAIN FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
v



(A) STATE OF THE ENVIRONMENT
(i)   Land degradation
Land degradation is a common problem in the district due to improper cultivation
practices, deforestation, overgrazing and tree felling by the local people. The
problem of land degradation, especially vegetation destruction around water sources
and upper catchment areas is expected to have a negative impact on the project.
That should be the case because of its effects on water resource availability and
hence, sustainability of rural water supply schemes.
(ii)   Air quality
The major sources of emissions in the rural areas are bush fires and fuel wood
burning that produce CO & C02 gases. However, no estimates have been done on
the amount being produced, hence their contribution to air pollution and green house
effect.
(iii) Ground water Potential
The ground water availability is high in the project area with recharge rate estimated
between 4-15 L/s (liters/second) in lowlands and 1-4L/s in upper areas during dry
seasons.
(iii) Water quality
The project will not have significant impact on both ground and surface water quality.
However, laboratory analysis shows that some boreholes contain water with high
amount of minerals, especially iron from geological formations. Contamination of
surface water is common due to human activities and trampling by livestock. This is
expected to have a negative impact on those water supply schemes that depend on
surface water, especially Gravity Pipes and Pumped surface water schemes.
(iv)  Sanitation, Health & hygiene
The majority of households in the rural areas do not have durable pit latrines and
wastewater disposal facilities. Most of the households do not boil drinking water due
mainly due to ignorance. There is a need therefore, to improve sanitation & hygiene
conditions through education and awareness campaigns.
(B) POLICY, LEGISLATION & REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
(i)   Policy
vi



Findings indicate that both National Environment Policy (NEP) and National Water
Policy (NWP) emphasize EA for major development projects and individuals and
community participation in environmental actions.
Both policies identify EIA as a legal instrument for policy implementation. However,
there is no specific legislation & guidelines in the water sector to support EIA
requirements for water resource development.
Although one of the policy implementation strategies in the NWP is to promote water
supply, sanitation & hygiene education among the rural communities, it does not
include environmental awareness & education in its objectives.
The NWP identifies conflict of interest among water users and states that
environmental issues will be analyze at planning levels. However, it does not give
implementation strategy to ensure that environmental issues are incorporated in all
stage of water resource development.
The policy recognizes that financing of water sources protection is not adequate as it
solely depends on government's budget and therefore a need for other financing
mechanisms.
It is therefore recommended that:
The MWLD should develop its own EA guidelines and environmental management
plan (EMP) to address environmental issues in the water sector.
The legislation to support implementation of EIA requirements in the water sector
should be incorporated in the Water Utilization Act.
Environmental awareness and education should be given weight in the NWP. That
should include promoting technologies that minimize environmental degradation.
There should be an institutional reform in the MWLD by establishing an
Environmental Unit. The responsibility of this Unit shall be to foresee implementation
of environmental management plans and to link and co-ordinate with the Office of
the Vice President through its Environment Division and NEMC.
The financing of water protection from pollution should involve introduction of water
users charges (WUC) and polluter pays principle (PPP). The local communities
should be encouraged to actively participate in water sources protection. The
established community water funds should be used, not only, in 0 & M water supply
schemes but also in financing protection of water sources.
(ii) Legislation
vii



Findings show that existing legislation within sectoral ministries is adequately
covered to guide environmental management, including EIA requirements. However,
there are some shortcomings:
No comprehensive legislation that enforces implementation of NEP or that
empowers NEMC to make EIA requirements mandatory and legally binding.
The legislation does not adequately address water resource ownership,
management and utilization.
The issues of ground water utilization, pollution control and monitoring are not
adequately addressed in the current Water Law.
The existing legislation in water sector does not show clear distinction and
separation of roles of service, operational and management function on one hand
and regulatory functions on the other hand.
There is lack of adequate representation of water users in the current legislation,
especially at village level.
Although water use issues are dealt with in various sectors, they are not in harmony
with each other, hence difficult to prosecute offenders. Again, it may be not be
appropriate to prosecute them in the absence of comprehensive legislation.
Various actors at different levels are performing some aspects of water resource and
environmental management but no effective co-ordination and collaboration exist
among them, hence resulting into over-lapping responsibilities and duplication of
efforts,
To address these problems it is recommended that:
Formulation of comprehensive environmental legislation should be speeded up to
facilitate implementation of NEP and empower NEMC to make EIA mandatory and
legally binding.
The issues of water resource ownership, management and utilization should be
specified in the Water Law.
The question of ground water utilization, pollution and monitoring should be
addressed in the Water Law to cope with the current situation, whereby private and
individuals participation in ground water works is rapidly increasing.
The current legislation on water resource management should be reviewed in order
to have a clear distinction and separation of roles of service, operation and
management function on one hand and regulatory function on the other hand.
The water users at village level should be covered in the current legislation and the
village governments should be encouraged to establish by-laws to protect water
sources and environment in general.
viii



The respective legislation in sector ministries should be reviewed and harmonized to
avoid conflict of interests.
Comprehensive legislation should be established to cover all water related sectors
and the Minister for water should enforce legislation on various sectors' water use,
consumption and pollution.
There should be a clear statement of institutional responsibilities and supporting
legislation to facilitate implementation of NEP and reduce duplication of efforts.
(iii) Standards Governing Environmental Quality
Findings indicate that existing, sector ministries in the country have legal authority to
regulate pollution discharge and they play increasing role in environmental
management. However, there is no effective implementation of pollution standards
in the country due to lack of clear system for co-ordination and implementation. Lack
of enforcement of existing provisions due to inadequate resource and fragmented
responsibilities within implementing agencies is another constraint. To improve the
situation it is recommended that:
Regulation of pollution should be based on Polluter Pay Principle (PPP), and nobody
should have a right to pollute environment. Polluters should give a proof on the
effect of their activities to the environment, that is, whether the activities do pollute
the environment or not.
Enforcement of the requirements for discharge permits must be strengthened, but
should continue to be regulated through the existing Water Utilization Acts.
Pollution control and prevention based on a system of discharge permits that
focuses on General Environmental Protection Act should be established. That
should cover discharges to water, air emissions, and noise and waste (liquid & solid
wastes) production.
General effluent standards should not be stated in Water Utilization Act, but they
should be stated individually in the discharge permits. It should be specific to actual
(industrial) sector of industry and environmental status of the receiving waters.
Guidelines for effluent standard should be established, based on the review of
existing standards by NEMC
Contents of an application for discharge permits should be specified in the regulation
and EIA requirements should be submitted to the relevant authority.
Pollution control and mitigation measures should be specified by industries in
attending the expected effluent discharge in their applications for discharges
permits.
ix



The principle of BAT and the concept of Cleaner Production Technology should be
adopted. That should include procedures for handling of applications, provisions for
notification and public participation, appeals and time frame.
Regulations should ensure that relevant authorities and institutions are contacted.
There should be a provision for existing industries to apply for discharge permits in a
specified time frame. The discharge permits should specify production capacity, raw
materials used, processing chemicals, products and waste disposal methods (liquid
& solid).
Discharge permits should be linked with license or other permits, specifications of
receiving water and municipal sewerage systems, discharge limits (intermediate if
necessary) and time limit. Other inclusions should involve operating conditions, such
as, the use of Cleaner Production Technologies, leakage control, minimum water
use, etc.  Monitoring and Reporting requirements and procedures should be
specified in the discharge permits, as well as, improvement program.
There should be a general condition and right for the relevant authority to inspect the
facilities and monitor the discharges. There should be a system of permit fee and
fees for inspection should be introduced.
Environmental quality monitoring capability for the River Basin Water Office (RBWO)
and Central Water Laboratory, as well as, Regional Water Laboratories should be
strengthened.
C.   EA REQUIREMENTS AND GOVERNMENT'S CAPACITY
The EIA requirements in Tanzania are not supported by legislation and there are no
responsible authorities that have been explicitly designated according to sector
legislation. However, some sector ministries have included EIA requirements in their
sector laws and regulations. For example, the Tanzania National Parks (TANAPA)
has made EIA to be mandatory and it has already developed its own guidelines for
carrying out EIA since 1993. Again, the process of establishing comprehensive
legislation and regulatory frameworks is still on-going in the country.
The national capacity for management and implementation of environmental
assessment requirements is still limited. The EIA regulatory framework still covers
only certain sectors and capacity to implement recommendations of mitigation and
environmental management is also low within those sectors.
Although there is a wide range of organizations with expertise relevant to EIA in the
country, most of them have never been exposed to EIA process and do not have
EIA specific expertise. However with increasing involvement of private sector on the
national development and future enactment of national level EIA legislation will
significantly increase demand for indigenous EIA expertise.
It is thus recommended that:
x



Provision for EIA requirements should be stated in the Water Laws. The NWP and
Water Utilization Act should be reviewed to include EIA requirements for water
resource management projects.
The EIA should be mandatory of large scale water projects and should be based on
investment costs and projects in sensitive areas.
The MWLD should develop its own guidelines on EIA to provide guidance on more
specific water related aspects.
There is a need to build capacity to undertake EIA and EIA reviews within the
MWLD, including the RWD.
There should be some training to improve awareness on the role of EIA in the
MWLD at national, regional, district levels.
D.   INSTITUTIONAL NEEDS AND CAPABILITY
Lack of financial and managerial or administrative skills seem to be one of the major
problems limiting institutional capability at village level. Another problem is lack of
education and awareness among the rural community on the importance of women
participation in village committees.
Although presence of NGOs and other donor funded programs could help in
capacity building at village levels they have limited coverage in the district and
sometimes their activities are overlapping, with different objectives and interests.
However, establishment of linkage and co-ordination with these program in those
village where there is RWSS program interventions could be useful in capacity
building.
The responsibilities and roles of the District Environment Committee (DEC) are too
broad for effective implementation of environmental management plans within the
RWSS Project. There should be an Environmental Unit in the DC's office to co-
ordinate with Environmental Liaison Unit within the Rural Water Division (RWD).
The Water Laboratory Unit in Morogoro like other regional laboratories could help in
water quality monitoring as part of environmental management plans. However, the
unit is faced with lack of financial resource and equipment (Mobile laboratory) to
conduct periodic monitoring, especially in the rural areas.
The presence of DHV Consultants (Foreign Private Consulting firm) and the Irish Aid
(International NGO) in the district has been useful in capacity building in the District
Water Engineer's Office in terms of design, construction and management of water
supply schemes. However, their support has not been adequate and not reliable.
The DWE's office is still faced by lack of transport, equipment, as well as technical
and management staff.
The absence of Environmental Liaison Unit within the Rural Water Division (RWD)
could be a constraint in effective implementation of environmental management
xi



plans in the RWSS project. It could also limit co-ordination and linkage between the
MWLD and NEMC during project implernentation.
It is therefore recommended that:
Village governments and their water committees should be strengthened through
training. The training should include contract procurement, community participation
& gender issues, sanitation & hygiene as well as, water resource management,
environmental  monitoring,  as  well  as  financial  management  and
managerial/administrative skills.
Community members should be mobilized and encouraged to form economic groups
and should be assisted by village government in collaboration with District Council to
obtain soft loans.
The regional laboratory should be financially strengthened and equipped so that it
can regularly conduct water quality monitoring. Whenever possible it should be
changed into autonomous agency and should operate commercially.
Environment Liaison Units should be established within the DC's office and the Rural
Water Division (RWD) to ensure effective implementation of environmental
management plans at district and village levels.
E.   ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES
The project is not expected to have significant negative impact on human and
natural environment. Generally the project is expected to have the following positive
impacts:
Increased income to local food vendors, especially women by selling food to the
construction workforce.
Improved health condition to the rural community due to accessibility to clean and
safe water supply.
Temporary employment opportunity to the local people, especially youth and women
during construction.
Improved sanitary condition and hence decreased incidence of water borne
diseases.
Improved skills in 0 & M of water supply schemes and financial, managerial and
administrative skills to the community leaders due to training package.
Improved environmental condition in the rural community due to created awareness
and training in environmental conservation activities, including tree planting,
application of environmentally sound technologies (e.g. use of alternative
construction materials).
xii



However, main potential environmental concerns that are likely to arise from the
project are related to water resource use, community activities and construction
activities.
(a)   Construction impacts
The construction activities may result into vegetation destruction during creation of
access roads for transportation of drilling rigs and installation of water pipelines.
However, the impact may be minimized by confining the construction activities on-
site and along the designated pipeline routes. The contractor is also expected to
make use of labour intensive technology.
There will be no significant air pollution from exhaust fumes or dust during
construction due to limited number of equipment, machinery and vehicles used on-
site.
Pollution of ground water may result due to improper well location in relation to
pollutant sources such as pit latrine, grave yards or burial sites. This problem can be
controlled by proper well site identification in collaboration with local communities.
Other pollutant sources may result from geological formations resulting into higher
mineral contents beyond acceptable limits (E.g. Kihelezo and Muungano villages).
The problem can be mitigated by carrying out water quality analysis for all successful
boreholes by using Tanzania standards as criteria for acceptance.
Crossing of farmlands and/or other properties may occur during installation of
pipelines associated with construction of Mechanized deep well or Gravity pipe water
supply schemes. This can be mitigated through diversion of routes and if not
possible compensation could be considered for lost property.
(b)   Community impacts
Poor disposal of human excreta or construction of pit latrines close to water sources
may result into pollution. The impact will be mitigated by sensitizing local
communities on latrine construction and uses. The community members and local
artisans will be trained and provided with instructional manuals on proper siting and
construction of pit latrines. The pit latrines will be sited at least 25 metres away and
downhill of a water point. The bottom of the pit latrine will be at least 2.0 metres
above the natural ground water table.
Encroachment of human settlement towards well sites may result into risk of ground
water contamination from pit latrines. The problem will by demarcating the
boundaries of well sites and enactment by-laws to prevent trespassing.
Cultivation and vegetation destruction around stream banks has been noted to
significantly result into erosion of stream banks, sedimentation of stream/river beds
and flood hazards (e.g. Muungano and Chanzuru villages). These activities create a
potential threat to the sustainability of water resource. The problem can be mitigated
xiii



by restricting cultivation to at least 200 metres away from the stream banks through
by-laws.
Destruction of vegetation on mountainous areas will result into drying up of natural
springs with negative impact on Gravity pipe schemes. The problem can be
mitigated through extensive community education and awareness campaigns on
environmental conservation and protection of water sources. The village government
should also enforce by-laws to discourage uncontrolled bush fires around the water
sources.
Damage to pipeline installations through cultivation and construction activities along
the pipeline routes by local people. This can be prevented by proper placement of
pipelines at an appropriate depth below ground. The right of way will be declared
and maintained through community by-laws.
Accumulation of wastewater around well sites and stand pipes due to people
washing or bathing near the water sources may lead into creation of mosquito
breeding sites. This problem will be mitigated through construction of standard
design for concrete pads with drainage channels to carry wastewater and spilled
water into soak-away at least 25 metres from the source. People should be
restricted from washing and/or bathing near the water sources through enactment of
by-laws.
Pollution of surface water is common due to human activities and trampling by
livestock. This is expected to have a negative impact on those water supply that
depend on surface water (e.g. Pumped surface water schemes). The impact can be
mitigated filtration and chlorination to maintain water quality in pipes. The community
members will be provided with hygiene education to ensure that they boil their
drinking water. People will be educated on water source protection and management
through extensive environmental awareness campaigns.
(c)   Water resource use impacts
One of the possible effects from the project is ground water over-extraction hence
leading into land instability, tectonic effects and disruption of hydrological balance.
However, that impact is not expected due to small volume of water extracted for
domestic purpose. Nevertheless, it shall be important to take precaution by limiting
the number of boreholes or shallow wells per unit area of land and conduct periodic
monitoring of ground water levels. Ground water monitoring system will be installed
to monitor fluctuations of ground water levels and appropriate action will be taken
whenever necessary.
F.   MITIGATION MANAGEMENT PLAN AND MONITORING INDICATORS
The summarized mitigation plan has taken into consideration the nature of
environmental impacts as shown in Table 1.
TABLE 1: MITIGATION PLAN
|POTENTIAL IMPACTS     MITIGATION MEASURES  I PHASE    |IMPLEMENTERS
xiv



POTENTIAL IMPACTS         MITIGATION MEASURES    PHASE             IMPLEMENTERS
A. Construction Impacts
Destruction  of  vegetation  Confine activities on-site.  Design    &  Contractor monitored
leading  into  soil erosion                          Construction  by
because of access roads  Use    labor    intensive
creation           during  technology.
transportation of drilling rigs  Land  restoration  and  re- Construction  Contractor monitored
and other equipment to well planting trees.          &             by       Supervising
sites   and/or   pipelines                           Operational   Engineer
construction.
Dumping of drilling wastes  Removal & proper disposal Construction  Contractor monitored
and construction spoils.  of all construction spoils and           by   a   Supervision
other solid wastes.                     Engineer.
Loss   of   crops   and  Consultation with community  Design &     District
agricultural  land  due  to  representatives   when                Council/Regional
crossing pipelines route or locating  pipeline route or            Water   Board  in
well siting.              well/borehole sites.                     collaboration   with
Construction  Water Committees
Avoid damage to private
property but compensation
should be paid whenever
necessary.
Water pollution  from  pit Locate  the   wells  at Design    &  Contractor monitored
latrines   due   to   bore  reasonable distance from pit Construction  by   a   Supervision
hole/shallow wells being too  latrines (at least 50 m).            Engineer         in
close to human settlements.                                        collaboration  with
Village      Water
Committees.
Fence  off  boreholes  or Operational   Contractor monitored
shallow well sites to prevent           by       Supervision
encroachment by people due              Engineer          in
to settlement expansion. The            collaboration   with
area  should  be  declared              Village       Water
protected under village by-             Committees
laws.
Occupational health & safety  Contractor   should   be  Construction  Contractor monitored
of     workers     during  responsible  for health  &              by  a   Supervision
construction               safety of workers.                      Engineer.
Only  trained   personnel
should be allowed to operate
equipment on-site.
There should be a qualified
person to administer first
aide on-site.
Increased incidence of STD  Awareness  &   education  Construction  Health Committee in
&   HIV/AIDS   due   to  campaigns on STD and HIV.                 Collaboration    with
construction workforce in the                                      Village
village.                                                           Dispensary/MCH
staff.
Locate  the   construction  Design    &
camp far away from village Construction
settlement.
xv



POTENTIAL IMPACTS         MITIGATION MEASURES    PHASE            IMPLEMENTERS
Limit number of workforce to  Design    &  Contractor   in
technical &   skilled labor Construction  collaboration    with
only. The rest of workforce            Village   government
should come from the rural             and      Supervision
communities.                           Engineer
B. Community Impacts
Bush fires & tree felling by  Enforce  by-laws    to  Construction  Village   government
local  community  around  discourage bush fires around  & Operation  and District councils
water sources and  upper water    sources       and
catchment.                catchment areas.
Promote  the   use   of Construction  Water Committees in
alternative   construction  & Operation   collaboration  with
materials   and    energy              local NGOs, CBOs,
sources   to    minimize               etc.
deforestation.
Initiate    environmental
education and awareness
campaigns.
Accumulation of wastewater Prevent people from washing  Operational   Village government in
around   well  sites   or or bathing close to well sites          collaboration  with
standpipes due to people  or  stand  pipes  though                Village       water
washing or bathing close to  enactment of by-laws.                Committees.
the water sources, hence  Construct standard concrete  Construction  Contractor   and
into potential breeding sites  pads for standpipes and/or         Design Engineers in
for mosquitoes.           hand pump shallow  wells                collaboration   with
drainage channel to carry              Village       Water
spilled water into soakways.           Committees.
Encroachment to well sites  Fencing off and demarcating  Construction  Village Government in
and open water sources due  boundaries   of    well & Operation   collaboration  with
to  expansion  of human  site/boreholes.                          Water Committees.
settlement and farmlands.
Well/borehole sites should
be declared protected area
under village by-laws.
Pollution  of open  water Treat water in storage tanks  Operation  Trained    personnel
sources  due  to  human  and/or   reservoirs    by                appointed by village
activities and trampling by    chlorination,  especially  in      water committee.
livestock.                small towns.
People should be educated  Operation   Water committee.
and  encouraged  to  boil
drinking water.                        Local dispensary staff.
Promote  the  use  of pit              Village Governments
latrines through  education            in collaboration with
and by-laws.                           Water             or
Environmental
Committees.
Damage to pipelines by local Declare right of way (RoW) Construction  Village government in
people during cultivation and  and enact by-laws to prevent & Operation   collaboration  with
planting  crops with deep  people from cultivating along          Water or Environment
rooting   systems   along  pipeline route.                        Committees
pipeline route.           Pipelines    should    be  Construction  Contractor.
submerged below the ground
to an appropriate depth.
C. Water  resource  use
impacts
xvi



POTENTIAL IMPACTS        MITIGATION MEASURES    PHASE          IMPLEMENTERS
Spontaneous growth of algae  Proper design  for water Design    &  Contractor monitored
and other waterweeds in storage  tanks  and  /or Construction  by       Supervision
open  storage  tanks  or reservoirs.                            Engineer
reservoirs   due      to  Periodic cleaning of water Operation    Trained    personnel
temperature and exposure to  storage   tanks   and/or           appointed by Village
sunlight.                reservoirs.                            water Committee
Over-extraction       of Amount of water extracted  Construction  Contractor monitored
groundwater  leading  into for domestic purpose is not          by      supervision
land    instability    and  expected to cause significant       Engineer.
hydrological imbalance.  impacts.   However,   a
precaution may be taken
limiting the number of wells
or boreholes per unit area.
Periodic   monitoring   of Operation    Trained   persons
ground water levels should            appointed by Village
be instituted.                        Committees
MONITORING INDICATORS
In developing a checklist of monitoring indicators (Table 2) it has been important to
include the assessment criteria for easy evaluation of effectiveness of proposed
mitigation measures.
TABLE 2:   CHECKLIST OF MONITORING INDICATORS
MONITORING INDICATORS                           ASSESSMENT CRITERIA
A.   WELL/BOREHOLE SITES
Hand pump base condition (strength).            Durability.
Location of pit latrines, burial sites, graveyards and  Distance (at least 50 m)
other contaminant sources relative to well sites.
Location of soakways from well sites.           Distance (at least 25 m).
Location of water table relative to pit latrine bottom    Distance (at least 2.0 m).
Presence of animal and or human waste around  Cow   dung  and/or  human
well sites.                                     wastes.
Presence of standing wastewater around well sites  Standing water with mosquito
and disease transmitting vectors                larvae.
Presence  of livestock  water drinking  troughs  Number of charcos
(charcos).
Presence of concrete pads and drainage channel Standard design (RWSD)
for carrying water to soakways.
On-going   human   activities   around   well People washing and/or bathing
sites/standpipes.
Presence of spilled oil, drilling wastes and other Oil, drilling mud, soil, rock
construction wastes.                            waste, etc.
B.   WATER RESOURCE
Ground water levels and recharge rates.         Depth (m) and recharge rate
(US)
Changes in water quality                        Tanzania standards.
On-going human activities around natural water Bush   fires,  tree   felling,
sources and catchment areas.                    cultivation, etc.
Characteristics of water storage tank/reservoir.  Standard design.
C.   HEALTH & SAFETY
xvii



Incidenoe of waterbome and sanitary related Malaria,  diarrhea,  typhoid,
diseases.                                   trachoma, etc.
Prevalence of STDs and HIV/AIDS among the rural Reported STDs and HIV/AIDS
people.                                     cases.
Presence  of  first  aid-box  on-site  during Completed first aid kit
construction.
Incidence of accidents due to construction activties. Reported cases.
D.  SANITATION & HYGIENE
Presence and condition of pit latrine (e.g. VIP)  Number of households.
Presence of wastewater disposal facilities  Number of households.
Drinking water handling practice (e.g. boiling).  Number of households.
E.  INSTUTIONAL CAPABILITY
Presence of water committees and water fund Water  committee  operating
contribution.                                bank account
Gender representation in village committees.  Number  of  Men  against
Women.
Presence of active economic groups.         Number of groups &  their
economic activities.
Community  awareness   &   education   on  Environmental  conservation,
environment, sanitation & hygiene matters.  sanitation & hygiene practice.
Presence  and  enforcement of by-laws  on  Existing by-laws.
environment & water resource protection.
F.   SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONDITION
Changes in local people's livelihood.        Income per capita
Improved acoess to good quality water resulting into Distance of water source from
increased opportunity by women to participate in households (not more than 400
other productive activities.                 m).
Education.                                   Number   of  schools   &
enrollment.
Medical services.                            Number of dispensaries &
availability of medicine.
Transport.                                   Road network conditions &
major means of transport.
TRAINING PLAN
The proposed training plan should involve sector expertise at district level and local
community. At community level emphasis should be put on Village government,
Youth & Women representatives and local artisans. The contents of the training
programme, time frame and implementers is summarized in Table 3.
xviii



TABLE 3:  PROPOSED TRAINING PLAN
STAGES       TARGET GROUP             IMPLEMENTERS           CONTENTS                        TIMING          DURATION    OUTPUT
STAGE I      Sector   expertise   at Qualified local NGOs, Ground  water monitoring  and  12        months
District level (e.g. District Private Consultants &  sanitary survey techniques.  before  project
Natural       Resource  related institutions.  Existing   policies,  legislation  starts.
Officers)                                      regulations and by-laws.                                      Trainers.
Land  degradation  (vegetation)
and water resources availability &
quality   with   emphasis   on
hydrological cycle.
Water pollution on human health
and poverty with emphasis on
sanitation & hygiene.
STAGE II    Representatives from:     Sector expertise       As above
- Youths & Women
Groups
- Village committee.
- Village Members
Representatives from:   Local NGO dealing with  Construction of VIP latrines and  6    months  3 weeks       Trained
-  Youths  &  Women  promotion   of   VIP  wastewater disposal chambers  before project                       representatives
Groups                  latrines.               using cheap and locally available
- Village committee.                            materials.
- Village Members
- Local artisans         Financial and Business  Financial  and  Managerial  or
Institutions          Administrative skills.
STAGE IlIl    Rural  communities  in  Sector  expertise  in  Education     &     awareness  During  project Continuous    Increased
general.                collaboration     with  campaigns   on   environment,  implementation                 awareness  on
Water &  Environment sanitation &  hygiene.           after                          environment,
Committees.                                           commissioning
hygiene
matters.
xix



TRODUCTION
1.0   General
On 8th October 2000, the Ministry of Water & Livestock Development (MWLD),
hereafter called the Client, assigned M/S Ako of Serviceplan Ltd. (hereinafter called
the Consultant) to conduct environmental assessment (EA) study for Rural Water
Supply & Sanitation Project (RWSSP). The Consultant was required to carry out the
study in ten selected villages of Kilosa (Morogoro region), Rufiji (Coast region) and
Mpwapwa (Dodoma region) districts.
In this report the Consultant presents findings from the study conducted in Kilosa
district from 21st to 23rd November 2000. The report is divided into seven sections,
whereby section one is introduction. This is followed by section two, covering policy,
regulatory and legal framework. Section three deals with Project description.
Biophysical and socio-economic baseline information is given in section four.
Section five, outlines the potential community sub-projects and their impacts. In
section six the report contains mitigation management and training plan. Finally, in
section seven there is environmental monitoring plan and checklist of monitoring
indicators.
Also, the report contains some appendices, whereby Appendix I consists of
references, followed by Appendix II that gives a summary of village baseline
information. Appendix IlIl shows the water supply status for ten selected villages of
Kilosa district. The water quality data for some boreholes is found in Appendix IV. In
Appendix V there is a list of authorities contacted during the study. The terms of
reference for this study have been attached in Appendix VI. Finally, the report shows
the names of study team members and the Consultant's curriculum vitae (CV)
Appendix VII and Vil, respectively.
1.2  The Study Area
Kilosa district is about 270 km from Dar Es Salaam (Fig.1) and situated between 6-
10S and 350E, with an altitude ranging between 300-600 meters above sea level
(m.a.s.l.). The district covers 14,918 square kilometers (kM2), with a total population
of about 466,000 people. The main ethnic groups in the district are the Sagara,
Kaguru, Kwiva, Vidunda and some few Gogo tribes. Kilosa district is comprised of 9
Divisions, 36 Wards and 132 Villages, with Kilosa town being its administrative
headquarters.
The district is divided into three ecological and six agro-economic zones (Fig. 2). The
three ecological zones include the flood plain, the plateau and the mountainous or
upland zones. The flood plain consists mainly of flat and undulating topography that
extends to the foothills at about 550 m.a.s.l.
Specifically, the study area is the rural community of ten selected villages of Kilosa
district. These include Kihelezo, Msimba, Muungano, Chanzuru, Kiegea, Twatwatwa,
Meshugi, Nguyami, Mkalama and Leshata. The spatial distribution of the villages
within their agro-economic zones is shown in the map (Fig.2).
1



1.3  Purpose and Objectives of the Study
The purpose of this study was to conduct Environmental Assessment (EA) for Rural
Water Supply & Sanitation Project (RWSS) Project in ten selected villages of Kilosa
District (Morogoro Region). Specifically, the objective was to identify environmental
impacts associated with rural water supply & sanitation schemes. In a long term the
aim was to develop an EA checklist and checklist of monitoring indicators for
different community sub-projects.
1.4  Scope and limitations
In this study the Consultant's task was to:
Develop bio-physical and socio-economic baseline data.
Describe the pertinent policies, legislation, regulations and standards governing
environmental quality at national and international levels.
Assess the present handling of EA requirements and procedures, as well as the
GOT capacity to handle them in future.
Identify potential environmental impacts and community sub-projects.
Propose environmental mitigation plan to minimize those negative impacts and
thereafter prepare an EA checklist for different community sub-projects.
Develop an environmental monitoring plan and then prepare a checklist of
monitoring indicators.
Identify institutional needs and capability to implement EA recommendations at
national, regional, district and community (village) levels.
The field survey was supposed to be conducted in ten selected villages of Kilosa,
namely Kiegea, Nguyami, Leshata, Meshugi, Mkalama, Twatwatwa, Chanzuru,
Muungano, Kihelezo and Msimba. However, due to limited time the survey covered
only Msimba, Twatwatwa, Kihelezo, Muungano, Kiegea, Nguyami and Chanzuru
villages.
1.5   General Approach & Methodology
1.5.1 General Approach
2



In undertaking this study the Consultant's approach was:
To define and characterize the study areas by using 1:50000 scale topographic map.
To divide the study area into distinct agro-economic zones
To identify the existing beneficiary communities in each agro-economic zone.
To select representative sample communities according to spatial distribution within
those agro-economic zones.
The agro-economic zones were used as a criteria for selecting sample villages,
because they reflect a local climate, and thus land use pattern and natural resource
potential, including water resource availability.
1.5.2 Methodology
After selecting the representative communities the Consultant divided the study into
two major components i.e. desk work and field survey.
Desk work
The desk work involved preparation of survey forms and questionnaires, acquisition
and reading topographic maps, review of various documents, reports, etc.
Field surveys
The field surveys involved on-site physical investigation and filling up standard bio-
physical and socio-economic survey forms. Whenever possible water samples were
collected for laboratory analysis.
Other activities included conducting informal & formal interviews, focus group
discussions and/or carrying out meetings with local community members. The
Consultant also carried out discussions with key informants at village, district and
national levels.
3



FIG. 1:   THE MAP OF KILOSA DISTRICT -RURAL ROADS AND VILLAGE
CENTRES
4



2.0 POLICY, LEGISLATION, REGULATORY & INSITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
2.1  Policy
The Tanzania government's commitment to environmental protection for sustainable
development is reflected in its three policy documents. These include, the National
Environment Policy (NEP), National Environment Action Plan (NEAP) and National
Conservation Strategy for Sustainable Development (NCSSD). Again, some
initiatives have been taken to prepare the Draft Environment Protection Bill (1994)
and the Bill to enhance the powers and responsibilities of National Environment
Management Council (NEMC). Moreover, the Tanzania government is a signatory to
the 1992 Rio Conventions (i.e. Convention on Biological Diversity 1992 and
Framework Convention for Climate Change 1992).
The overall objective of NEP (1997) is to raise public awareness and understanding
of essential linkages, between environment and development. The other object is to
promote individual and community participation in environmental actions. This policy
objective is in line with the 2000 National Water Policy (NWP) approach to rural
water supply & sanitation, whereby community participation and other stakeholders
in water resource management is emphasized.
The NEP policy addresses environmental issues from both natural and social
context, by adopting the principle of sustainable development. According to the
policy, exploitation/utilization of natural resource, investment and technology
development has to be carried out in a sustainable manner without compromising
the environment for the benefit of the current generation and of the future.
The NEP has developed proposals for enactment of framework to address
environmental issues in line with international agreements, commitment and national
concerns. Main objectives of the framework are:
To take into account various government agencies involved in regulating specific
sectors of economy.
To integrate the activities of the government agencies.
To promote co-ordination and co-operation among various government agencies
and define environmental management tools of general scope.
The framework intends to facilitate consistent policy and enforcement to ensure that:
EIA is carried out for any major development project before its commencement.
Environmental monitoring is done in compliance with the set standards.
Environmental auditing is undertaken to evaluate the efficiency of environmental
organization, including its management and equipment being used.
5



The Ministry of Water & Livestock Development (MWLD) on its part has also taken
environmental issues into consideration. For instance the 1991 National Water
Policy was revised to form the 2000 NWP. The policy identifies EIA as one of the
important legal instrument for policy implementation. The policy issues of concern in
the environment sector is environmental water needs, that is, water needed to
protect the environment. It identifies major aquatic ecosystems, including their
ecology, hydrology and in-stream flow requirements. Thus the policy focuses on
setting up environmental quality standards, establishment and enforcement of
effective regulatory mechanisms for environmental flow requirement. For example, in
the case of the Lower Kihansi Hydropower Project, some amount of water had to be
left to continue flowing in the Kihansi river to ensure the survival of some unique and
endemic species of frogs.
The NWP specifies issues related to Rural Water Supply & Sanitation. The policy
gives emphasis on improving the health and socio-economic well being of rural
communities through improved access to safe, adequate and sustainable water
supply. It recognizes the relationship between lack of safe water, poor hygiene &
sanitation conditions as the major cause of sickness and death, and of course
poverty.
The policy identifies the rural women and children the most vulnerable groups living
in poor conditions, always subjected to diseases and foregone opportunities. One of
the policy strategies in this connection is to emphasize and/ or promote health &
hygiene education to the rural people, rather than providing water supply alone.
Thus according to the policy the integration of water supply, sanitation and hygiene
education should be geared towards maximizing health impact to the rural
community, especially women & children. To ensure effective implementation the
policy strategy focuses on promoting collaboration with the Ministry of Education &
Culture (MOEC) and the Ministry of Health (MOH).
Again, demand responsive approach and community participation (NGOs, CBOs,
Private sector, etc) in the planning, financing, design, operation & maintenance (O &
M) of rural water supply & sanitation scheme is one of the policy elements being
addressed. It also recognizes the need for water to livestock and the need to include
livestock in the designs of rural community water supply schemes. The principle
statement is that, provision of adequate water to livestock will be ensured though
construction of dams/charcos and integrating livestock requirement in the design of
rural water supplies.
FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Findings
One of the important strategies in the NWP implementation is to promote water
supply, sanitation and hygiene education among the rural community. However, the
policy does not specify in its objectives the issues of environmental awareness and
education. For example environmental degradation (vegetation destruction and
water pollution) of water sources is one of the major problems that could threaten
the sustainability of rural water supply schemes. It is therefore important that
6



environmental awareness and education should be given weight in the policy. That
should include promoting technologies that minimize environmental degradation. For
example, promoting the use of efficient charcoal stove (Jiko Bora), that consumes
little charcoal and conserves heat (e.g. Jiko bora). Again, use of red soil and cement
bricks for house construction in rural areas can be promoted to minimize vegetation
destruction or the use rice husks for burning bricks instead of fuel wood can be
promoted. Therefore, one of the policy objectives in this case should be to promote
environmental conservation and encourage environmentally sound practices and/or
technologies to protect water sources.
Another policy strategy is to make EA mandatory prior to execution of all major water
related projects. However, there are no guidelines developed by MWLD for carrying
out EA in water supply development projects. For example TANAPA has developed
its own EA guidelines for development projects being carried out in the National
Parks or Game Reserves. It could be important if the MWLD could develop its own
EA guidelines and environmental management plan (EMP). From those guidelines, it
shall be possible to develop standard EIA reports, techniques and reviews that are
specific to the water sectors and within the local context. The output in this case,
should be EA guidelines, standard reports and reviews process, that address the
requirement of the sector and put local issues into consideration.
The policy identifies conflict of interest among water users due to water resource
planning approach that is sector oriented and regionally based or project specific. To
alleviate this problem the policy will integrate national, basin, sub-basin and
community level plans. It states that inter-sectoral planning at basin level will be
formulated and participatory approach at all levels will be promoted. According to the
policy, environmental issues will be analyzed at planning level. However, the policy
does not give any implementation strategy to ensure that environmental issues are
incorporated in all stages of water resource development. There should be an
institutional reform in the MWLD by establishing an environmental section. The
responsibility of this section shall be to foresee implementation of environmental
management plans and to link and co-ordinate with the Environment Division and
NEMC.
The question of water source protection and cleaning due to pollution has been
noted in the policy to involve financing mechanism. However, up to now source of
funding largely depends on government budget and thus not adequate. There is a
need to look for other sources to complement the government budget. One of the
sources may involve introduction of water users charges (WUC) and polluter pays
principle (PPP). Other mechanism is to encourage local communities to actively
participate in water sources protection. The established community water funds
should be used, not only, in 0 & M water supply schemes but also water sources
protection.
Recommendations
7



Environmental awareness and education should be given weight in the NWP. That
should include promoting technologies that minimize environmental degradation.
The MWLD should develop its own EA guidelines and environmental management
plan (EMP) to address environmental issues in the water sector.
There should be an institutional reform in the MWLD by establishing an
Environmental Unit. The responsibility of this Unit shall be to foresee implementation
of environmental management plans and to link and co-ordinate with the Office of
the Vice President through its Environment Division and NEMC.
The financing of water protection from pollution should involve introduction of water
users charges (WUC) and polluter pays principle (PPP). The local communities
should be encouraged to actively participate in water sources protection. The
established community water funds should be used, not only, in 0 & M water supply
schemes but also in financing protection of water sources.
The legislation to support implementation of EIA requirements in the water sector
should be incorporated in the Water Utilization Act.
2.2   Legislation and Standards Governing Water Quality
2.2.1 Legislation
(a)   Legislation in Tanzania
The relevant legislative matters of environmental concern in Tanzania relate to Solid
Waste Management, Pollution Control, Environmental Quality Standards, Land use,
Health & Safety, Protection of Wildlife, Sensitive areas, Unique Flora & Fauna, as
well as, Protection of Natural & Cultural Resource.
(i)   Protection of Sensitive Areas & Unique Flora & Fauna
The relevant legislation in Tanzania related to preservation and/or protection of
sensitive areas and unique flora & fauna are:
Fauna Conservation Ordinance' (an Ordinance is law promulgated before in
dependence) Cap. 302 as amended by Acts No. 15 and 17 of 1963 and Act No. 7 of
1965.
National Parks Ordinance (Amendment) Act No. 44 of 1963.
Forest Ordinance of 1957 Cap. 389, Forests (Amendment) Act No. 43 of 1963.
Land Ordinance Cap. 113.
1 A law promulgated before the country got independence.
8



Public Land (Preserved areas) Ordinance (Amendment) Act. No. 28 of 1965.
National Land Policy (1997).
Industrial Licensing and Registration Act of 1967 and its Amendments of 1982.
Water Utilization (Control and Regulation) Act. Of 1974 as amended by Water
Utilization (Control and Regulation) Act of 1981.
Fisheries Act. No. 6 of 1970.
Wildlife Conservation Act No. 21 of 1974.
National Environment Management Act No. 19 of 1983.
(ii)  Solid Waste Management
The principle legislation that governs waste management is found in the Local
Government Acts, National Land Use Commission Act and Town & Country
Planning Ordinance. However, no specific legislation that addresses solid waste
management issues. The Land Use Planning Act gives Local Authorities the power
to designate land in urban areas for specific uses, like solid waste disposal sites.
Besides that, the Common Law Principle of Nuisance can be applied to solid waste
disposal sites (e.g. Case of Belegere Vs Dar Es Salaam City Council)2
The relevant policy is the NEP whose primary objective is to promote
environmentally sound technologies, that are less polluting, recycle more of their
wastes and handle wastes in a more acceptable manner than the technologies they
replace. Within the NEP, Health sector refers to provision of waste disposal services.
The industry sector refers to prevention, reduction, control and limitation of damage
and minimization of risk from general management, transportation, handling and
disposal of hazardous wastes.
(iii) Air Pollution
There is neither legislation nor definitions of standards or objectives pertaining to air
pollution. So far the only item of legislation is that which appears in the Penal Code
and Merchant Shipping Act of 1967.
The Penal Code stipulates that "voluntarily violating the atmosphere so as to make it
noxious to the health of persons in the vicinity" is a misdemeanor. The Local
Government Act (District and Urban Authority Act, 1982) contains provisions to
protect human health and regulates pollution problems. The Merchant Shipping Act
(1967) prohibits emissions of dark smoke from ships for more than five minutes in
any hour, within a certain distance from the shoreline. However, the Common Law
2 In 1985 the Residents of Kunduchi Mtongani, Dar Es Salaam successfully moved
the high court to close a dump site which was opened by the City Council in the
residential area due to air pollution problem.
9



Principles of Nuisance can also be applied in matters of air pollution as in the case
of solid waste management.
The NEP seeks to reduce and control impacts from industrial emissions through
location, control of emission and use of environmentally friendly technologies (Clean
Technology). The policy also seeks to establish permissible noise levels in cases of
noise-prone industries and construction sites. However, there are no established air
and noise quality standards, although draft proposals have been prepared by NEMC
(1997) for ambient air and emission sources.
(iv)  Mining
So far no legislation in Tanzania which specifically deals with control of land
pollution. However, this issue can be related to land use policy and regulations. The
NEMC Act (1983) has some provisions to initiate steps for the protection of
environment by preventing, controlling, abating or mitigating pollution to land, water,
air, etc.
The NEP addresses the issues of land pollution, especially in regards to mining
sector. It states that "measures will be taken to minimize pollution from the mining
sector. These include reclamation and restoration of land after use, mining
discharges to ground and surface water". According to the policy, land, ground &
surface water pollution shall be controlled and preventive as well as, clean up
measures for accidents shall be formulated and implemented. Similar policies are
also applicable to other industrial sector.
(v)   Land use
The relevant legislation controlling land use and its management include:
National Land Policy (1997).
Land Ordinance Cap. 113.
Public Land (Preserved areas) Ordinance (Amendment) Act. No. 28 of 1965.
Town and Country Planning Ordinance was established to regulate land use
planning schemes for designated areas.
Natural Resource Ordinance to create Natural Resource Board, responsible for
supervising natural resource.
The National Land Use Planning Commission to advise the government on land
conservation and development.
The Local (District and Urban) Authorities Acts (1982) to empower Local Authorities
to make by-laws on soil protection, agriculture, water supplies and other natural
resource.
10



Other legislation relevant to land use include, Range Land Development and
Management Ordinance, Land Ordinance (1961) and Land Acquisition Act (1967).
Recently, the Land Act (1999) has been enacted to regulate land allocation,
including a village land.
The National Land Policy (1997) addresses issues of protection of sensitive areas.
These include water catchment areas, small islands, border areas, beaches,
mountains, forests, national parks, rivers, river basins & river banks, and seasonal
migration routes of wildlife, national heritage and areas of biodiversity. According to
policy, these areas or parts of them shall not be allocated to individuals.
The policy also deals with protection of hazard lands, such as, river valleys, areas of
steep slopes, mangrove swamps, marshlands. The policy recognizes that apart from
posing danger to life and property, development on those areas contributes to land
degradation, pollution and environmental degradation in general.
(vi)  Water
Water pollution and supply are covered by Water Works Ordinance (Cap. 281), the
Urban Water Supply Act, 7/81 and Water Utilization and Control Act, 42/74. The
Water Works Ordinance specifies that, pollution of water supplies constitutes a
punishable offence. The Urban Water Supply Act gives the National Urban Water
Authority (NUWA, now DAWASA) powers regarding surface and ground water
pollution. It specifies that, pollution of surface or ground water is a punishable
offence. The Water Utilization and Control Act establishes temporary standards for
receiving waters and effluent discharge standards. The Public Health Sewerage and
Drainage Ordinance Cap. 335, prohibits the discharge of certain substances into
sewers, violation of which is an offence and penalties may be imposed.
The Government of Tanzania has also created the following bodies with specific
tasks to regulate water pollution. These include:
National Urban Water Authority (NUWA now DAWASA)
Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS).
National Environment Management Council (NEMC).
The existing legislation on water resource management is:
The Laws of Tanganyika 1947 & 1950 Cap. 281.
Water Works Ordinance (Subsidiary Legislation) Cap. 281.
Public Health (Sewerage & Sanitation) Cap. 336.
Water Utilization (Control and Regulation) Act No. 42 of 1974.
Urban Water Supply Act. No. 7 of 1981.
Water Utilization (Control and Regulation) Amendment Act. No. 10 of 1981.
11



Written Laws (Promotion and Protection) Act. No. 10 of 1990.
Water Utilization (Miscellaneous Amendment) No.8 of 1997.
Water Laws (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act of 1999.
Major topics covered in the law in water resource concern protection and
exploitation. In water protection important topics deal with
Ownership of water resource.
Protection of water resource.
Protection of flora & fauna and natural environment in relation to water resource.
Protection of water quality in other countries.
Discharge of waste water in water sources.
For water resource exploitation main topics covered are concerned with:
Regulation and distribution of water resource.
Right of organization and individuals to exploit and use water resource.
Obligations of organizations and individuals that exploit and use water resource.
Issuing of permits for exploitation and use of water resource. Generally, legal and
policy issues on environment are supposed to provide health and safe environment
for sustainable development. The legislation relates to the external environment
such as availability of safe and sufficient water, sewage treatment, and waste
disposal services and pollution control mechanisms. Health & safety issues are also
relevant to environment at work places, as it affects the health and safety of workers.
(vii) Health & safety
Generally, legal and policy issues on environment are supposed to provide healthy
and safe environment for sustainable development. The legislation relates to the
external environment, such as availability of safe and sufficient water, sewage
treatment, waste disposal services and pollution control mechanisms. Health &
safety issues are also relevant to the environment at work places, as it affects the
health and safety of workers The items of legislation that a relevant are relevant to
health & safety are found in the Factories Ordinance and Penal Code. The Factories
Ordinance deals with health & safety of workers at their work places. The word
"factory" as considered by this ordinance includes most places of work. This
ordinance sets standards for health, safety and welfare of workers. It empowers the
Minister for Labor to make rules for health, safety and welfare of workers. The
legislation states that: "Where the Minister is satisfied that, any manufacturer,
machinery, plant, equipment, appliances, processes or description of manual labour,
12



is of such a nature as to cause risk of bodily injury/harm, or to be offensive to the
person employed. Then the Minister shall take a legal action to protect the
employee." Thus, based on its broad context, the ordinance is also relevant to this
project, as far as construction works and operation of equipment on-site is
concerned. The Penal Code can be considered to be another relevant legislation to
this project. It restricts the practice of noxious trades and this restriction extends to
cover unsafe places of work.
The existing policy matters within NEP are relevant to Health & Safety. This is the
case because reduction of emissions and pollution from industry and adoption of
clean technologies are beneficial to workforce, as well as, the general public. The
specific policy that refers to health & safety is the industry sector policy, that seeks to
ensure workers' health and safety are adequately protected from potential
environmental health hazards. Again, under the Local (District and Urban)
Authorities Acts (1982) the Local Governments have been empowered to make by-
laws regarding public health and safety issues.
(viii) Vegetation & Wildlife
The Wildlife Conservation laws restrict hunting or cutting vegetation in the National
Parks and Game Reserves. However, the laws are less strict in the Game Controlled
Areas. The Wildlife Conservation Act protects wildlife and vegetation. Under the Act
the utilization of wildlife is restricted to license holders. The use of sensitive wildlife
habitats is restricted during a certain times of the year or for specific periods.
Wildlife Conservation Act of 1974 (Amendment) limits exploitation of certain forest
resources by requiring specific licenses for harvesting and selling forests products.
The revised Forestry Policy of 1993 recognizes the important role of forests in the
maintenance of the environment, provision of forestry products and the protection of
watersheds and bio-diversity.
(ix) Marine and Freshwater Fisheries
The important item of legislation in the fisheries regulation is that which prohibit flow
or passing into water any solid, liquid or gaseous matter or cause water pollution in
any lake, river, dam, estuary or sea water. This legislation requires any person
responsible for pollution to clean the polluted water within a reasonable period at
his/her own expense.
Again, specific regulations were introduced in 1973 and 1982, under the Fisheries
Act (1970), to limit annual fish catches. The legislation also puts limitations on
methods of fish harvesting, including the outlawing of dynamiting and poisoning.
(x)   Agriculture
The agricultural Policy addresses issues of land degradation from agrochemical. The
donors support programs such as the Land management Program (LAMP), the Soil
Erosion Control and Agroforestry Program (SECAP) and the Soil Conservation and
Agroforestry Program (SCAPA) aim to reduce pollution from agrochemical.
13



(xi)  Cultural Resource & Heritage
The relevant items of legislation on cultural resource & heritage are found in the
Antiquities Act and Protected Places & Areas Act. The Act seeks to protect through
regulation of access to declared monuments, relics and conservation areas. It gives
the Minister for Legal Affairs the authority to prevent or control movement and
conduct of people in certain areas.
International Treaties & Agreements
The principal international treaties and agreements related to environment of which
Tanzania is a signatory (MTNRE and Green Globe Yearbook, 1993) are:
Convention Related to the Preservation of Fauna & Flora in their natural set up -
London 1933.
Convention on the African Migratory Locust - Kano, 1962.
African Convention on the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resource-Algeria
1968.
Convention on the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage (World
Heritage Convention) Paris 1972 (UNESCO).
Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
(CITES)- Washington DC, 1973 (UNEP) United Nations Convention on the law of
the Sea (UNCLOS) Montego Bay, 1922.
FAO International Undertaking on Plant Genetic Resource-Rome1983.
FAO International Code of conduct on the Distribution and Use of Pesticide -Rome,
1985.
Convention on Biological Diversity - Rio de Janeiro 1992 (UNEP).
Framework Convention on Climate change-Rio de Janeiro, 1992 (UNEP).
FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Findings
The existing legislation within sectoral ministries is adequately covered to guide
environmental  management,  including  EIA  requirements.  However,  no
comprehensive legislation that enforces implementation of NEP or that empowers
NEMC to make EIA requirements mandatory and legally binding.
The legislation does not adequately address water resource ownership,
management and utilization.  Under the existing laws, the United Republic of
Tanzania owns water resource, and every one has a right of access to free water
14



supply. However, access to some minimal amount for essential needs is not
stipulated in the Water Law.
The issues of ground water utilization, pollution control and monitoring are not
adequately addressed in the current law. This may result into problems and some
times conflicts. For example, in recent years, there have been an increasing number
of individuals and institutions, who have turned into ground water sources utilization.
Monitoring of these individual water users is important because over-extraction of
ground water may result into problems. These include hydrological imbalance, land
subsidence and vulnerability of land to tectonic effects (earthquake). Therefore,
question of water pollution, and allocation of ground water resource among various
users should be adequately covered in the legislation, to avoid environment
degradation and hazards due to uncontrolled extraction.
There are some deficiencies in the existing law on water resource. According to the
NWP (2000) the existing legislation does not show clear distinction and separation
of roles of service, operational and management function on one hand and
regulatory functions on the other hand. There is a need to revise/review the current
legislation so that regulatory functions are separated from service functions.
Another shortcoming with the current legislation is lack of adequate representation of
water users, especially at village level. There is a need to review the current
legislation in order to cover water users at village levels. The village governments
should be encouraged to establish by-laws to protect the environment and water
sources.
There is a linkage between land, environment and water resource management.
Therefore, the MWLD should co-operate with Ministry of Lands & Urban
Development (MLUD), Ministry of Natural Resource and Tourism (MNRT), Office of
the Vice President and Ministry of Agriculture & Food (MOAF). The respective
legislation should be reviewed and harmonized to avoid conflicts of interests among
the ministries.
The water use issues are dealt with in various sectors, but they are not in harmony
with each other, hence difficult to prosecute offenders. Again, it may be not be
appropriate to prosecute them in the absence of comprehensive legislation.
Therefore, such legislation should be established to cover other sectors. The sector
Ministers should then refer to the legislation on water resource in matters related to
their own sector's water use, consumption and pollution.
Various actors at different levels are performing some aspects of water resource and
environmental management but no effective co-ordination and collaboration exist
among them, hence resulting into over-lapping responsibilities and duplication of
efforts,
Recommendations
15



The formulation of comprehensive environmental legislation should be speeded up
to facilitate implementation of NEP and empower NEMC to make EIA mandatory
and legally binding.
The issues of water resource ownership, management and utilization should be
specified in the Water Law.
The question of ground water utilization, pollution and monitoring should be
addressed in the Water Law to cope with the current situation, whereby private and
individuals participation in ground water works is rapidly increasing.
The current legislation on water resource management should be reviewed in order
to have a clear distinction and separation of roles of service, operation and
management function on one hand and regulatory function on the other hand. The
water users at village level should be covered in the current legislation and the
village governments should be encouraged to establish by-laws to protect water
sources and environment in general.
The respective legislation in sector ministries should be reviewed and harmonized to
avoid conflict of interests.
Comprehensive legislation should be established to cover all water related sectors
and the Minister for water should enforce legislation on various sectors' water use,
consumption and pollution.
There should be a clear statement of institutional responsibilities and supporting
legislation in to facilitate implementation of NEP and reduce duplication of efforts.
2.2.2 Standards Governing Environmental Quality
(a)  International Standards
Relevant international standards governing environmental quality include:
WHO Guidelines for Drinking water Quality by WHO (1963, 1984) with addendum of
1993 and 1998.
European Union Drinking water Quality Standards (November, 1998).
Norwegian systems of fresh water classification.
(i)   European Union (EU)
The EU drinking water quality standards are given in the following directives:
Directive No. 75/490 EEC . Concerns with quality of surface water intended for
abstraction of drinking water in the member states.
Directive No. 80/778/EU. Relates to quality of water intended for human
consumption, specifically deals with maximum admissible one.
16



Directive No. 98/83/EU. Deals with quality of water intended for human consumption
but specifically deals with parameter value.
In EU, discharge standards are regulated for certain chemicals, like mercury and
cadmium. The standards set requirements for municipal treatment plants for
member states.
The discharge standards are included in the national regulations, either in the
discharge permits or in the general regulations. Furthermore, the specific discharge
standards for certain substances, such as mercury and cadmium, are not universal
but only depend on a given type of industry or factory.
(ii)   Norwegian System
The Norwegian system for classification of environmental quality of fresh water is
used  for evaluation  of environmental status and development.  It states
environmental goals, evaluates the need for pollution control measures and the
effect of mitigation measures taken.  Those classifications are based on the
knowledge about the effect of parameters and statistical occurrence of the
parameters in Norwegian fresh waters. The system also gives classification of the
suitability for different use (Bj0rnstad 2000).
In Norway, the Pollution Control Act stipulates that nobody is allowed to pollute
without a discharge permit. The Act specifies effluent standards, together with
general requirements for use of Best Available Technology (BAT), and Cleaner
Production Technology. The Norwegian State Pollution Control Authority (NSPCA)
has established a system of more individually specified discharge permits for each
polluting factory.
(iii) Oslo-Paris Convention
The Oslo-Paris convention concerns with the protection of North sea, whereby
specific types of industries are given recommendations on effluent standards. For
example, whether Textile and Electroplating industries pollute the environment or do
not pollute. According to the convention, assessment should be made of how the
discharges may affect the environment.  Polluters are required to monitor the
discharges and report to the relevant authorities and the public.
(b)   National standards
The national standards relevant to environmental quality in Tanzania are:
Tanzania Water Quality standards.
Tanzania Standards for Receiving Water.
Temporary Standards for Quality of Domestic Water.
17



Classification of Environmental Status for fresh water.
Tanzania Standard for Rural water Supply - 1974.
(i)   Standards for Rural Water
The Tanzania standards for Rural Water Supply consider toxic elements, mainly
fluorides and nitrates, as inorganic compounds with effect on human health.
Generally, values for Tanzania standards are higher than those set by the European
Community (EC) and World Health Organization (WHO).
(ii)   Effluent & Receiving Water Quality Standards
The Ministry of Health in Collaboration with the then Ministry of Water, Energy and
Minerals (now Ministry of Energy & Minerals) developed Effluent Receiving Water
Quality standards in 1977. These standards were adopted and appear as schedules
under the Water Utilization (Control & Regulation) Amendment Act No. 10 of 1981.
The standards comprise of receiving water quality standards, the effluent quality
standards and the domestic water standards.
However enforcement of existing provisions is limited due to inadequate resource
and fragmented responsibilities within implementing institutions. Again, there is lack
of compliance by industries with current discharge standards. Therefore, there is a
need for strengthening environmental regulatory capacity and associated
institutional development as proposed by NEMC.
(a)   Receiving water Quality Standards
In Tanzania, receiving water quality standards are put into three categories and
provide maximum permissible concentration, whereas that of EC (1980) gives
maximum admissible concentration and WHO (1993) gives recommendations. The
maximum permissible concentrations for the three categories include 20 mg/L for
Category I & II and 30 mg/L for Category l1l.
The Category I standards is concerned drinking water supplies, swimming pools,
food and beverage manufacturing industries, pharmaceuticals manufacturing
industries or industries requiring water source of similar quality. Category II deals
with the use of water for domestic animals, fishing, shell cultures, recreation and
water for sports. Category IlIl relates to water for irrigation and other industrial
activities requiring water quality standards lower than those in Category I and I..
18



19



The Temporary standards deal with effluents for direct discharge into receiving
waters. The restrictions are that those effluents should not cause sludge or scum,
should not cause change in color, should not cause change in natural taste or odor
and should not cause temperature change by more than 5oC. The standard also
deals with effluents for indirect discharge into receiving waters through municipal
sewerage plant. It specifies that effluents should not have more than 35oC or not
exceed 5oC above ambient temperature of supplied water.
The Tanzania standards for water quality are regulated through Water Utilization Act
1974 (Amendment 1981). The standards prescribed in 1981 amendment include
standards for receiving waters, effluents standard and drinking water standards.
Under the Water Utilizaton Act no person may discharge effluents from commercial,
industrial or other trade waste systems into receiving water without consent duly
granted by Public Water Officer (PWO). The standards related to effluents and
receiving waters are specified and should be complied with by users of water before
or during discharge into watercourse, receiving waters or municipal sewerage
systems.
In Tanzania, discharge permit is granted by Public Water Office (PWO) and Water
Basin Offices (WBOs). However, discharge permit is granted by PWO for new plants
only, as most industries in the country are old. Although old industries are not
regulated through discharge permits, they are required to comply with the national
effluent standards. Even though no follow-up is being done to ensure that effluent
standards are complied with and only few industries and municipal waster water
plants do regular monitoring. Nevertheless, the reporting procedures of these
agencies is not always systematic (NORPLAN, 2000). This is also the case with
River Basin Water Office (RBWO) and Central Water Laboratory due to number of
reasons, including lack of financial resources and equipment (e.g. mobile labs).
FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Findings
Since the establishment of NEP in 1997 there has been some dramatic policy
changes in sector ministries. The emphasis has been to attain environmental quality
standards objectives. As stated in the previous section the Environmental Protection
Bill and the Bill to enhance powers and responsibilities of NEMC has already been
prepared for enactment by parliament. Again, the Draft Institutional & Legal
Framework for Environmental Management is already out since 28 October 1998,
and it is currently undergoing some formal reviews.
It can be noted that the existing, sector ministries in the country have legal authority
to regulate pollution discharge and they play increasing role in environmental
management. However, there is no effective implementation of pollution standards
in the country due to lack of clear system for co-ordination and implementation. Lack
of enforcement of existing provisions due to inadequate resource and fragmented
responsibilities within implementing agencies is another constraint. Those
20



shortcomings are reflected in the current levels of environmental performance in the
country. For example, lack of monitoring and low level of compliance with
environmental quality standards, by industries, public and private sector institutions.
Recommendations
To improve the situation the following recommendations are given for environmental
quality standards in Tanzania:
Regulation of pollution should be based on Polluter Pay Principle (PPP), and nobody
should have a right to pollute environment. Polluters should give a proof on the
effect of their activities to the environment, that is, whether the activities do pollute
the environment or not.
Enforcement of the requirements for discharge permits must be strengthened, but
should continue to be regulated through the existing Water Utilization Acts.
Pollution control and prevention based on a system of discharge permits that
focuses on General Environmental Protection Act should be established. That
should cover discharges to water, air, as well as, noise and waste (liquid & solid
wastes) production.
General effluent standards should not be stated in Water Utilization Act, but they
should be stated individually in the discharge permits. It should be specific to actual
(industrial) sector of industry and environmental status of the receiving waters
Guidelines for effluent standard should be established, based on the review of
existing standards by NEMC
Contents of an application for discharge permits should be specified in the regulation
and EIA requirements should be submitted to the relevant authority.
Pollution control and mitigation measures should be specified by industries in
attending the expected effluent discharge in their applications for discharges
permits.
The principle of BAT and the concept of Cleaner Production Technology should be
adopted. That should include procedures for handling of applications, provisions for
notification and public participation, appeals and time frame.
Regulations should ensure that relevant authorities and institutions are contacted.
There should be a provision for existing industries to apply for discharge permits in a
specified time frame. The discharge permits should specify production capacity, raw
materials used, processing chemicals, products and waste disposal methods (liquid
& solid).
Discharge permits should be linked with license or other permits, specifications of
receiving water and municipal sewerage systems, discharge limits (intermediate if
necessary) and time limit. Other inclusions should involve operating conditions such
21



as, the use of Cleaner Production Technologies, leakage control, minimum water
use, etc.  Monitoring and Reporting requirements and procedures should be
specified in the discharge permits, as well as, improvement program.
There should be a general condition and right for the relevant authority to inspect the
facilities and monitor the discharges. There should be a system of permit fee and
fees for inspection should be introduced.
Environmental quality monitoring capability for the River Basin Water Office (RBWO)
and Central Water Laboratory, as well as, Regional Water Laboratories should be
strengthened.
2.2.3 EA Requirements and GOT Capacity to Handle EIA
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is the process that involves identification,
analysis and predictions of all significant impacts due to development project
activities, policies and/or programs. The function of EIA is to predict the impacts of
projects, programs, and policies on natural resource and environmental quality,
including communities that depend on or interact with them. It is a tool for collecting
and assembling information to be used for improvement of project design and
implementation.
One of the important characteristics of EIA is that it is process oriented, multi-
disciplinary and interactive. It is aimed at providing better understanding of the
linkage between ecological, social, economic and political systems.
Although the words environmental impact assessment is widely employed, EIA
involves social, ecological and risk assessment.  The economic benefits of
undertaking EIA at earlier stage of project design are well known. For example,
unnecessary social disruption and cost can be avoided by incorporating EIA in the
project design. Experience shows that the cost of undertaking EIA usually do not
exceed 1% of the total project cost (IIED/IRA, 1995).
The history of EIA in the United States (US) goes back to 1969 when the National
Environment Policy Act was formulated. According to the Act, any large scale
development project has to undergo EIA. The intention is to identify any potential
impacts resulting from proposed project activities so that mitigation measures could
be implemented to minimize or if possible avoid those impacts. In 1986 the World
Bank made EIA to be mandatory in its bank financed development projects.
Thereafter, the African Development Bank (AfDB) and other multilateral and bilateral
agencies including, the United Nations (UN) agencies introduced EIA. Again, the
European Community (EC) in 1989 directed its member states to undertake EIA for
major development projects.
In Tanzania, EIA was given more importance after the Rio declaration in 1992.
According to principle 17 of the Rio Declaration, project proponents of any proposed
development activities that are likely to have significant environmental impacts
should undertake EIA. The NEP (1997) and NWP (2000) require that all major
development projects should be subject to EIA.
22



Again, some initiatives have been taken by other sectors to incorporate EIA in their
policies and planning. For example, the Tanzania National Park (TANAPA) policy
requires EIA preparation for development activities within and/or adjacent to national
park boundaries (TANAPA, 1994). The policy covers all development activities by
TANAPA itself, government agencies and private sector. EIA requirement also
includes the General Management Plans (TANAPA Planning Unit,1994). Other
sectors also include the Department of Wildlife, the Ministry of Energy & Minerals
(MEM) and Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO).
The Wildlife Policy requires EIA for all significant development proposals within
protected areas in Tanzania (Department of Wildlife, 1996). The protected areas in
this case include the Game Controlled Areas, Game Reserves and Forest Reserves.
The Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority has also developed its policy that
makes EIA to be undertaken for any development project within its boundaries.
TANESCO has also made EIA to be mandatory for all power generation projects and
high-tension electricity transmission lines. However, due to lack of supporting
legislation policy guidelines in So far it is only the MEM that has incorporated EIA
requirements in its mining policy and has developed the Environmental Management
& Legislative Framework (MEM,1996). According to the policy EIA should be
undertaken for large-scale mining, and that mining licenses should be issued with
rehabilitation bonds.
FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Findings
The review study for EIA performance in Tanzania has shown the lack of adequate
expertise, institutional weakness and absence of legal framework as a major
constraint (IIED/IRA 1995).
In the recent years, the Vice President's Office has released a Draft Institutional and
Legal Framework for Environmental Management (Vice President's Office, 1998).
The draft framework is still undergoing formal review. It emphasizes integration of
other ministries, including the MWLD. However, evidence show that there is a weak
co-operation and co-ordination between the Vice President's Office and other
ministries including the MWLD (NORPLAN, 2000).
Although the NEP (1997) requires EIA to be mandatory for major development
projects there is no environmental legislation for enforcing EIA in the country. The
Draft Environment Protection Bill was formed in 1994 but still not yet enacted. The
NEP recognizes the need for effective EIA framework, but the policy does not give
details of institutional responsibilities. For EIA to be effective, specific legislation is
needed to clearly state the role and responsibilities for conducting EIA in Tanzania.
Thus in the absence of institutional responsibilities and supporting legislation it is not
possible to have effective EIA process in Tanzania. However, despite these
shortcomings the existing legislation in different sectors can help to guide and
support the enforcement of EIA in Tanzania.
23



The past EIA experience in Tanzania (IIED/IRA), 1995) reveals some shortcomings
in conducting EIA studies. These limitations have been in terms of quality of ToR,
screening & scoping, statement clarity, quality of impact prediction, evaluation of
significance of impacts, assessment of alternative options, quality of mitigation
proposed, quality of monitoring & involvement of local people. That has been
caused by low level of awareness on EIA by the senior staff in key institutions. Some
of them have been noted to regard EIA as a constraint and that it can increase
project implementation costs.
Although there is a wide range of organizations with expertise relevant to EIA in the
country, most of them have never been exposed to EIA process and do not have
EIA specific expertise. The low level of EIA expertise in the country can be attributed
to historical reasons, as for a longtime the EIA studies have been undertaken by
international consultants or expatriate experts. However, in recent years the
involvement of individual freelance consultants and local consulting firms has been
increasing, especially following the World Bank policy to facilitate local capacity
building. The increasing involvement of private sector on the national development
and future enactment of national level EIA legislation will significantly increase
demand for indigenous EIA expertise.
The EIA requirements in Tanzania are not supported by legislation and there are no
responsible authorities that have been explicitly designated according to sector
legislation. However, some sector ministries have included EIA requirements in their
sector laws and regulations. For example, the Tanzania National Parks (TANAPA)
has made EIA to be mandatory and it has already developed its own future
enactment of national level EIA legislation will significantly increase demand for
indigenous EIA expertise.
The EIA requirements in Tanzania are not supported by legislation and there are no
responsible authorities that have been explicitly designated according to sector
legislation. However, some sector ministries have included EIA requirements in their
sector laws and regulations. For example, the Tanzania National Parks (TANAPA)
has made EIA to be mandatory and it has already developed its own guidelines for
carrying out EIA since 1993. Again, the process of establishing comprehensive
legislation and regulatory frameworks is still on-going in the country.
The NEP requires EIA to be mandatory for major development projects. However,
there is no defined institutional responsibilities for EIA and EIA regulatory framework
exists only in few protected areas, such as the national parks, marine parks and
game reserves. Again, the national capacity for management and implementation of
environmental assessment requirements is still limited. The EIA regulatory
framework still covers only certain sectors and capacity to implement
recommendations of mitigation and environmental management is also low within
those sectors.
Recommendations
It is recommended that:
24



There should be an overall political decision so that general regulations on EIA are
stated in the Environmental or Planning legislation. The process of enacting
legislation should be speeded up to cope with the rapid economic transformation
towards privatization.
Since there is no overall EIA legislation the provision for EIA should be stated in the
Water Laws. The water policy review and Water Utilization Act should include EIA
requirements for water resource management projects.
The EIA should be mandatory of large scale water projects and should be based on
investment costs and projects in sensitive areas.
The MWLD should develop its own guidelines on EIA to provide guidance on more
specific water related aspects.
There is a need to build capacity to undertake EIA within the national institutions
including the MWLD.
The national capacity to collect baseline information should be strengthened.
The existing sector expertise should be harnessed to improve their capacity to
undertake EIA.
There should be some training to improve awareness on the role of EIA at national,
regional, district levels.
2.2.4 Institutional Needs and Capability to Implement EA recommendations
To assess the institutional needs and capability it is important to consider the
existing institutional set-up at all levels, including the project level set-up. That is,
institutional se-up at project, village, district and national levels.
(a)   Project level
The key players in the implementation of RWSS project level include the Central
Government through the MWLD, the District Council (DC), External Support
Agencies (ESAs), Private Sector, Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs),
Community based Organisations (CBOs) and the Village Governments (VGs)
through their Village Water Supply & Sanitation (VWSS) Committees.
The project level institutional set-up shows there is a Technical Advisory Committee
(TAC) under the MWLD. The TAC is responsible for project follow-up, policy
formulation and dissemination of information related to the project. Then there is a
District Water & Sanitation Team (DWST) under the District Council (DC),
responsible for dissemination of information at district level and link with Rural Water
Division (RWD). The DWST is also responsible for preparation of District Water &
25



Sanitation Plans (DWSP), endorsement of policy principles and establishment of
District Water Supply & Sanitation (WSS) Funds. Another responsibility of the
DWST is identification of eligible communities (villages) for financing according to
the guidelines stipulated in the DWSP.
(b)   Village level
The village level institutional set-up shows presence of Village Government (VG),
comprised of the Village Chairman (VC), Village Executive Officer (VEO) and Village
Hamlet Leaders (VHLs) as members. Under the village governments there are three
main committees and four sub-committees.
The main committees include, Finance, Economy & Planning, Defense & Security,
and Construction & Social Services. The sub-committees include:
Include the Water Committees, Health Committees, Environment CommiKtees, and
School Committees.
However, the formation of sub-committees varies among villages, depending the
need of a particular village. For example, in Chanzuru village there is an irrigation
Committee that dealing with irrigation projects.
(b)   District Level
The set-up at district level indicates the District Councils (DCs) are responsible for
environment  policy  implementation,  monitoring  and  evaluation.  Another
responsibility of the DCs will be water resource and environmental protection,
including conservation of and protection of catchment areas through its District
Environmental Committee (DEC).
(c)   At National Level
The national level institutional set-up for environmental management shows the
presence of both Environment Division and National Environment Management
Council (NEMC), within the Office of the Vice President. The responsibility of the
Environment Division is policy formulation, preparation of environment action plans,
maintaining co-operation and linkage with other sectors. Another responsibility is to
foresee implementation of national environment policies, guidelines & regulations,
including international treaties & agreements. The Environment Division is headed
by the Director of Environment with executive powers under the Permanent
Secretary in the Office of the Vice President.
The NEMC is the advisory body to the GOT in all environmental matters including
policy formulation and implementation. The Council is also responsible for
formulation of environmental strategies, preparation EIA guidelines, EIA and EIS
reviews and development project approvals. The body ensures that proper
environmental safeguards in planning and execution of development projects are
followed. It is also responsible for identification of EA Consultants and carrying out
environmental monitoring & audits, as well as, advising project proponents on
environmental issues.
26



The NEMC, is headed by the Chairman of Environment whose responsibilities are to
advice the Council and the Government in general. Again, there is the Director of
Environment with executive powers under the Permanent Secretary in the Office of
the Vice President.
For water resource management, there is a Division of Water Resource (DWR)
headed by a Director. Under the DWR there is a Technical Section headed by
Assistant Director. The technical section is comprised of three departments. These
include the Surface Water Resource Assessment, Hydrogeology, and Water
Resource Management (WRM). The department of WRM deals with all aspects of
water resource regulations and management, including international water resource
& pollution control.
Other organs are the Basin Water Boards (BWBs) and Basin Water Office (BWO)
which regulate all declared river basins. The Basin Water Office is headed by Basin
Water Officer.
There is a National Water Resource Commission (NWRC) which is responsible for
integration of the activities of all water-related sectors. The secretariat of the
committee is within the WRD and the Director of WRD is the secretary. The
chairman of the Commission will be appointed by the President.
According to the proposed set up the Central Water Board (CWB) will cease to
operate. All functions of the CWB will be taken by NWRC, the WRM and the BWBs.
The functions of water quality management are currently under the Water
Laboratory Unit (WLU). These functions will be shifted to the DWR and will be within
the Hydrology & Hydrogeology sections.
FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Findings
The proposed institutional set-up at project levels is adequate for water resource
management and implementation of EA recommendations because participation of
all key players in the RWSS Project is ensured.
However, at village level the institutional capacity may be limited by inadequate
financial and human resource. The capacity of the VG and its committees also could
be limited by lack of financial management and managerial/administrative skills.
Another problem is lack of awareness and women participation as can be noted in
their gender representation (Table 4, Appendix 11). The fact women are the key
players in water resource and environment makes their participation important for
effective implementation of RWSS program.
27



The formation of economic groups in some villages like Msimba and Chanzuru is a
positive sign of capacity building at village level because of the potential of these
groups in increasing the revenue base, hence their ability to contribute to water
resource and environmental management. However, lack of financial resources and
managerial skills could be a constraint. It could be important that the local
community should be mobilized to form economic groups and the village
government in collaboration with the DC should assist them in obtaining soft loans.
Another problem is lack of knowledge on environment, sanitation & hygiene issues.
There should be a need to train the village committees and local community in
general on environment, sanitation & hygiene matters. The training programme
should also include financial management and managerial/administrative skills.
The presence of NGOs such as the Irish Aid and Private firm like DHV Consultants
provide a good opportunity for capacity building at village levels. The Irish Aid is
dealing with water supply and sanitation, road construction, agriculture & natural
resource management. The DHV on its side is concerned with rural water supply.
However, activities of theses organizations are confined to some villages. For
example, Irish Aid is operating in Chanzuru village only.
Again, presence of donor funded programs like Agriculture Sector Program Support
(ASPS) and the Linked Local Learning (LLL) program at Msimba village could help
in building the local capacity. But again, due to their limited coverage in the district
these program are not adequate.
Generally, it can be noted that activities of most NGOs and donor funded programs
in the country are sometimes overlapping, with different objectives and interests.
Nevertheless, it is noteworthy that those programs can assist in capacity building
when linkage and co-ordination is established in those communities where there is
RWSS program interventions.
Recommendations
To improve the institutional capability in water resource and environmental
management in general the following recommendations are given:
Training program for the local communities should be initiated. The program should
contract procurement, participation & gender issues, sanitation & hygiene, water
resource & environmental management.
The village government and the water committees should be strengthened through
training in financial management and managerial skills.
The rural community should be mobilized to contribute to the water fund and
sensitized on environmental awareness and sanitation.
The co-ordination and linkage between the DED and the Regional Engineer should
be strengthened.
28



The regional laboratory should be strengthened so that it can regularly conduct
water quality monitoring, and whenever possible it should be changed into
autonomous agency and should operate commercially.
The villagers should be encouraged to form economic groups and the District
Council should assist them by providing soft loans and train them in carrying out
small businesses.
3.0 PROJECT DESCRIPTION
(a)   The Project
This project is the result of 1991 national water policy reviews. The policy
emphasizes demand responsive and participatory approach in water supply service
delivery. Under the new approach local communities are required to financially
contribute and actively participate in the design, planning as well as, operation &
maintenance (O & M) of their water supply & sanitation schemes. The project is
currently in its design stage and is expected to be implemented in a number of
villages and/or small towns in the country. However, a number of studies related to
this project have already been conducted in the country. These include, Supply
Chain Study (Baumann & Lymo, 2000), Project Implementation Manual (MOW,
1999), Learning Innovation Loan (LIL - RWSSM, MOW, 1999) and the Review of
Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Project for Kilosa, Rufiji & Mpwapwa districts (MMK
Project Services Ltd., 1999).
The initial step towards project implementation involved establishment of District
Water and Sanitation Teams (DWSTs) in project districts. The responsibilities of
DWSTs are to provide information and link (liaison) with the already established
Rural Water Division (RWD) under the MWLD. The DWSTs are also responsible for
identifying eligible communities for financing, according to guidelines stipulated in
the District Water and Sanitation Plan (DWSP).  According to Draft Project
Information Document (PID), the project is expected to take about three (3) years
and will be finance jointly by the World Bank through IDA, the Government of
Tanzania (GOT) and the Rural Communities.
(b)   Purpose and Objectives
The purpose of the project is to improve the existing water supply & sanitation
conditions for ten selected villages of Kilosa district. The project aims towards
improving the health condition of the rural people through provision of safe, clean
and affordable water supply.
Specifically the objectives of the project are:
To rehabilitate the existing water supply schemes, and whenever necessary to
construct the new ones.
29



To provide sanitation and hygiene education to the rural communities of the selected
villages.
To create awareness on HIV/AID prevention among the rural people.
To sensitize the rural communities on environmental issues so that they can manage
their water schemes in a sustainable manner.
(c)   Components and Activities
The project implementation involves community level and national level components.
At community level the project involves establishment of District Implementation
Models. Under this component main activities include:
* Establishment of DWSTs.
* Strengthening of operational capacity of the DWSP.
- Appraisal of community sub-projects through on-site surveys.
- Establishment of DWSS fund for operation and maintenance community sub-
projects.
* Hygiene and sanitation education and promotion of HIV/AIDS prevention.
K Rehabilitation and construction of RWSS schemes.
The national level component will involve development of building up/scaling up
strategy for National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Programme. The major
activities under this component are:
Consultation with stakeholder to develop strategy for scaling up and to develop
approach, scope, financing and institutional arrangement for implementation of
National RWSS programme.
Development of institutional framework for project implementation.
Promoting capacity building through involvement of private sector relevant to RWSS,
MWLD staff and other relevant complementary and partner agency staff.
(d)   Duration and Time Frame
The project is expected to take 3 years and the initial 6-months will be used for
project promotion through community mobilization and stakeholder consultation.
That will be followed by on-site surveys and developing designs for the identified
potential water supply schemes. The next step will be actual implementation which
involves rehabilitation, construction of new schemes, training of rural community on
environment, hygiene and sanitation matters, as well as proper management of
water funds.
30



(e)   Beneficiaries
The direct beneficiaries of this project are community members from selected
villages and/or small towns in the country. Other beneficiaries are the District
Councils, Private Contractors, NGOs, CBOs, and other organizations operating in
the project areas.
(f)   Financing agencies
The project will be financed partly by the rural communities in the selected villages,
the World Bank, the District Councils and the GOT through the MWLD. Funds will
also be sought from other external support agencies for example, by linking the
project through co-ordination and planning to IDA - TASAF water component
project.
(g)  Implementing agencies
The MWLD will be the main implementing agency through multi stakeholder
Technical Advisory Committee (TAC). The TAC will be responsible for project
follow-up, policy issues and dissemination of information related to the project.
Other implementing agency is the District Council (DC) through the DWST. The
DWST will be responsible for preparation of District Water and Sanitation Plan
(DWSP), endorsement of policy principles and establishment of District WSS Fund.
The rural communities will also participate fully in the project implementation through
their Village Water Supply and Sanitation Committees (VWSS). Details on the
mechanism for project implementation are described in the Project Information
Document (PID) prepared by the MWLD.
(h)  Sustainability
The project sustainability is ensured through local community participation as well
as, availability of goods & services.  Local communities will be involved in
contracting of goods and services, and 0 & M of water supply & sanitation schemes.
The availability of goods and services is ensured by involvement of district and
regionally based Private Contractors, NGOs, CBOs, and other Partner Organization
(PO). Generally, the sustainability indicators are:
* Community participation.
* Gender balance is addressed especially in water committees.
*  Private sector participation.
*  Involvement of NGOs, POs, Private contractors in policy formulation.
* Training of WATSAN staff to build their capacity.
31



* Environment, hygiene and sanitation issues are addressed, through, training,
education and awareness creation among rural communities.
32



FIG. 2:    MAP OF KILOSA DISTRICT-AGRO-ECONOMIC ZONES
33



4.0 BIOPHYSICAL AND SOCIO-ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENTS
4.1 BIOPHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT
(a)   Climate
The Kilosa district receives an annual rainfall ranging between 600-1200 mm and
temperature between 25-30C. However, in the flood plain annual rainfall can range
between 1000-1400 mm.
(b)   Topography
The topography of Kilosa district varies form flat, undulating plains to rolling and hilly
or mountainous terrain. Generally, the landform is controlled by geology of the area.
(c)   Soils
The soils vary from poorly drained vertisols in the central part of the flood plain to
alluvial fans in the western side, consisting of black, fertile clay loam. The valleys in
hilly areas are characterized by alluvial clay loam with mixture of these in the upland
and coastal areas. A long the river valley the soils are dominated by heavy and
water logged clays. In Mkata plains the alluvial soils consist of clay loam and sandy
loam. However, along the edges (pediments), the soils vary from red-orange sandy
loam to stony loam and clay loam.
The problem of land degradation is common in the district due to improper
cultivation practices, deforestation and overgrazing. All the three agro-ecological
zones have been subjected to problems of land degradation of varying intensity. The
common types of land degradation include surface sealing, soil compaction and
sheet, rill as well as gully erosion. The Gairo Ward is the most affected, hence
resulting into establishment of Agroforestry & Land Use Project (GALAP) in 1980s.
One of the project objectives was to train farmers in agroforestry practices.
(d)   Geology and Geomorphology
The geology of Kilosa district is formed by Ubendian/Usagaran systems, comprised
of gneiss and meta-sediments of Precambrian origin. In the flood plain the geology
is characterized by Quartenary alluvium and sedimentary deposits of meso-
cainozoic origin, consisting of sands, gravel and clay material. The dominant rock
type in hilly areas is biotite gneiss with patches of hornblende, biotite-garnets and
kyanite gneiss. The geomorphology is Post-African surface of Miocene-Pliocene
origin, with hilly and incised surface.
(e)   Hydro-geology
34



The ground water recharge potential is controlled by geology of the area. For
example, in low-lying areas with quaternary alluvial sands, gravel and sandstone, as
well as, sedimentary deposits, ground water re-charge potential is between 1-15 L/s
(liters per second). However, in upper areas with gneiss and meta-sediments it is
around 1-4L/s.
(fl   Air quality and sources of emissions
No assessment has been done on the air quality in the rural community. However,
from the consultant's opinion the air quality in the in the area is relatively better than
that of the busy city or town center, where there is a large no of vehicle, factories,
etc. The only major sources of emissions are bush fires, fuel wood and to a lesser
extent charcoal as they produce smoke mainly containing CO & CO2. The majority
households in the project villagelO selected villages depend on fuel wood and
charcoal which is contributing to CO & C02 emissions to the atmosphere. So far, no
attempt has been made to estimate the amount of gaseous emissions being
produced by those sources per year, hence leading into green house effect.
Another source of air pollution could be from dust particles blown out by wind.
However, due to good vegetation cover in most of the villages there is no significant
contribution to air pollution from dust. The consultant also expects construction
equipment will have insignificant contribution to the air quality due to limited number
of drilling equipment and vehicles on-site.
(g)   Water Quality & Pollution sources
The water quality is generally good in the hand pump shallow wells and deep bore
holes. However, some of them contain saline water which becomes higher during
dry seasons. Again, presence of high amount of mica has been reported
Bacteriological contamination in the deep wells and hand pump shallow wells is
almost negligible. The water quality assessment has been done for some boreholes
at Kihelezo village and Muungano. According to DWE's report, the water sample at
Kihelezo village has high iron content and therefore unacceptable for drinking
(Appendix IV).
(h)   Vegetation
The natural vegetation cover in the area does vary significantly. On the central part,
the vegetation is dominated by Acacia-Commiphora bush land on the central part.
Towards the south and southeastern part the vegetation become more dominated
by Cumbretum-Brachystegia woodland. In the Mkata plain, the vegetation is
comprised of Acacia-Brachystegia woodland and wooded grassland mosaics. On
the northern, the vegetation is mainly dominated by Brachystegia woodland.
(i)   Wildlife
The large number of wildlife is concentrated in the Mikumi Game Reserve. The most
common terrestrial wildlife include baboons, monkeys, and large herbivores such as
35



elephants, rhinoceros (few), zebra, buffalo, antelope, giraffe etc. About 19% of the
land area is occupied by Mikumi National Park and Selous Game Reserve (Shishira
etal., 1997).
0)    Significant Features
The Mikumi National Park and Selous Game Reserve form a most significant
features of eco-tourism and tourism importance. The Great Ruaha River which
passes on the southern of the district is also another significant feature in the area.
(k)   Natural Resource Potential
The important natural resource includes timber, honey and bees wax, as well as,
minerals such as gemstones, mica, graphite and limestone.
(I)   Vectors
The common disease transmitting vectors include, the tsetsefly and black fly.
Tsetseflies and black flies are responsible for transmission of sleeping sickness and
river blindness , respectively.
4.2 SOCIO-ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
(a)   Human Population
According to 1997 estimates, the total population of Kilosa district was 347,401
people with a growth rate of 2.6% and density of 6.8 people per household.
However, the most recent projections indicates the population of the district is about
466,000 people. The population of each study village and their households are
shown in Appendix II.
(b)   Human Settlement
The human settlements pattern varies from nucleated to scattered one, and
generally aligned along the roads. The majority of houses in the selected villages are
mad up of mud walls with poles and thatched with grass. However ,a significant
number of houses are built up of burnt bricks and either thatched (grass) roofed with
iron sheets.
(c)   Land use and land Tenure
The major land use is cultivation and livestock keeping. Land is owned by individual
one permanent basis and is usually inherited or leased. However, the village
governments control land allocation.
36



(d)   Socio-cultural condition
The main ethnic groups in the rural areas are the Sagara, Gogo, Kaguru, Kwiva,
Vidunda, few Gogo and Hehe. The Islamic and Christian religions are the dominant
religious denominations in the district. However, in Kilosa town the people belong to
multi-ethnic groups with different religious denominations.
(e)   Water Supply & Uses
The water supply coverage in the district is low with high number of non-functioning
schemes (MMK Project services, 1999). The majority of villagers depend on
traditional wells, streams or rivers. However, traditional wells and natural sources are
prone to contamination due to human activities and wild animals. The water supply
status for the ten selected villages is shown in Appendix Ill.
Water is used mainly for domestic purpose and livestock. However, in some few
villages water is also used for irrigation.
(f)   Sanitation & hygiene
The majority of households in the rural areas have unlined open roofed pit latrines
with temporary walls made up of coconut leaves or grasses. The pit latrines are not
durable, as they always collapse and overflow during rainfalls. People use pit latrines
mainly for disposal of human wastes, but sometimes they use them as bathrooms.
Most households do not have wastewater disposal facilities and do not boil drinking
water due to ignorance.
(g)   Agriculture & Livestock
The majority of the people in the district are farmers with farm size ranging from
small to medium size. Major food crops include, maize, millet, beans, cassava, rice
and sweet potatoes. Cash crops are also grown, especially sunflower and castor oil.
Generally, agriculture in the district is constrained by the lack of inputs and people
mainly depend on simple hand hoe for cultivation.
However, livestock keeping is also practiced in the district, especially the Masai
pastoralists. For example, the Twatwatwa village has a large number of livestock
compared to other villages. The village has about 72,000 cattle, 51,000 goats/sheep
and 2000 donkeys.
37



FIG. 3:    MAP OF KILOSA DISTRICT-LAND USE AND VEGETATION COVER
38



5.0 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES
In general the project is not expected to have negative environmental impacts
because it is aimed at improving the living standards of the rural communities.
Again, the intended community sub-projects (wells, boreholes, spring protection,
small piped systems and latrine construction) and their associated actions are
expected to have little or no appreciable negative impacts on the human life and
natural environment in general. However, to that the project will be environmentally
sustainable it is important to identify any consequences of a given interventions.
Thus identification of impacts should include both positive and negative impacts so
that negative impacts could be minimized and the positive ones are enhanced. The
proposed mitigation plans are shown in Table 1.
A.   POSITIVE IMPACTS
Generally the project is expected to have the following positive impacts:
Increased income to local food vendors, especially women by selling food to the
construction workforce.
Improved health condition to the rural community due to accessibility to clean and
safe water supply.
Temporary employment opportunity to the local people, especially youth and women
during construction.
Improved sanitary condition and hence decreased incidence of water borne
diseases.
Improved skills in 0 & M of water supply schemes and financial, managerial and
administrative skills to the community leaders due to training package.
Improved environmental condition in the rural community due to created awareness
and training in environmental conservation activities, including tree planting,
application of environmentally sound technologies (e.g. use
of alternative construction materials).
B.   NEGATIVE IMPACTS
The identification of negative impacts of community sub-projects focuses on the
potential water supply schemes in the project area. These include Hand pump
shallow wells, Mechanized deep wells, Gravity pipes and Pumped surface water
supply schemes. However, for easy presentation and understanding impacts can be
classified depending on their nature. That is those resulting directly from
construction activities, community actions and water resource uses.
(i)   Construction impacts
39



The construction activities may result into vegetation destruction during creation of
access roads for transportation of drilling rigs and installation of water pipelines.
However, the impact may be minimized by confining the construction activities on-
site and along the designated pipeline routes. The contractor is also expected to
make use of labour intensive technology. The contractor will be advised to restore
vegetation around well sites and along pipeline routes whenever possible.
During construction production of drilling wastes and construction spoils may occur
however that is not expected to have significant impact on land and ground or
surface water sources. All drilling wastes and construction spoils will properly
disposed in such a way that they do not result into soil or water pollution.
There will be no significant air pollution from exhaust fumes or dust during
construction due to limited number of equipment, machinery and vehicles used on-
site.
Pollution of ground water may result due to improper well location in relation to
pollutant sources such as pit latrine, grave yards or burial sites. This problem can be
controlled by proper well site identification in collaboration with local communities.
Other pollutant sources may result from geological formations resulting into higher
mineral contents beyond acceptable limits (E.g. Kihelezo and Muungano villages).
The problem can be mitigated by carrying out water quality analysis for all successful
boreholes by using Tanzania standards as criteria for acceptance.
Crossing of farmlands and/or other properties may occur during installation of
pipelines associated with construction of Mechanized deep well or Gravity pipe water
supply schemes. This can be mitigated through diversion of routes and if not
possible compensation could be considered for lost property.
The occupational health & safety of workers may be at risk during construction. The
problem will be mitigated by restricting operation of equipment to trained personnel
only. There will also be a first aid box on-site administered by a qualified person.
Moreover, the contractor will be responsible for health & safety of workers on-site.
The incidence of STD & HIV/AIDS is likely to increase due to presence of
construction workforce in the rural communities. The chances of STD & HIV/AIDS
transmission can be minimized by promoting awareness and education campaigns
among the rural communities, especially women & youths. The number of workforce
should be to technical & skilled labor only. The rest of workforce should come from
the rural communities. The construction camp should be located far away from the
village settlement.
(ii)   Community impacts
Poor disposal of human excreta or construction of pit latrines close to water sources
may result into water pollution . The impact will be mitigated through extensive
education & awareness campaigns to promote latrine construction and use by local
communities. The community members and local artisans will be trained and
40



provided with instructional manuals on proper siting and construction of pit latrines.
The pit latrines will be sited at least 25 metres away and downhill of a water point.
The bottom of the pit latrine will be at least 2.0 metres above the natural ground
water table.
Encroachment of human settlement towards well sites may result into risk of ground
water contamination from pit latrines. The problem will by demarcating the
boundaries of well sites and enactment by-laws to prevent trespassing.
Cultivation and vegetation destruction around stream banks has been noted to
significantly result into erosion of stream banks, sedimentation of stream/river beds
and flood hazards (e.g. Muungano and Chanzuru villages). These activities create a
potential threat to the sustainability of water resource. The problem can be mitigated
by restricting cultivation to at least 200 metres away from the stream banks through
by-laws.
Destruction of vegetation on mountainous areas will result into drying up of natural
springs with negative impact on Gravity pipe schemes. The problem can be
mitigated through extensive community education and awareness campaigns on
environmental conservation and protection of water sources. The village government
should also enforce by-laws to discourage uncontrolled bush fires around the water
sources.
Damage to pipeline installations through cultivation and construction activities along
the pipeline routes by local people. This can be prevented by proper placement of
pipelines at an appropriate depth below ground. The right of way will be declared
and maintained through community by-laws.
Accumulation of wastewater around well sites and stand pipes due to people
washing or bathing near the water sources may lead into creation of mosquito
breeding sites. This problem will be mitigated through construction of standard
design for concrete pads with drainage channels to carry wastewater and spilled
water into soak-away at least 25 metres from the source. People should be
restricted from washing and/or bathing near the water sources through enactment of
by-laws.
Pollution of surface water is common due to human activities and trampling by
livestock. This is expected to have a negative impact on those water supply that
depend on surface water (e.g. Pumped surface water schemes). The impact can be
mitigated filtration and chlorination to maintain water quality in pipes. The community
members will be provided with hygiene education to ensure that they boil their
drinking water. People will be educated on water source protection and management
through extensive environmental awareness campaigns.
(iii) Water use impacts
41



One of the possible effects from the project is ground water over-extraction hence
leading into land instability, tectonic effects and disruption of hydrological balance.
However, that impact is not expected due to small volume of water extracted for
domestic purpose. Nevertheless, it shall be important to take precaution by limiting
the number of boreholes or shallow wells per unit area of land and conduct periodic
monitoring of ground water levels. Ground water monitoring system will be installed
to monitor fluctuations of ground water levels and appropriate action will be taken
whenever necessary.
Spontaneous growth of algae and other water weeds may occur in open storage
tanks or reservoirs due to temperature and exposure to sunlight, hence affect the
water quality. This problem can be mitigated by properly designing storage tanks or
reservoirs (e.g. storage tanks should be able to reflect sunlight and properly
covered). The storage tanks should be cleaned periodically during operation.
6.0 MITIGATION MANAGEMENT PLAN & MONITORING
6.1 MITIGATION MANAGEMENT PLAN
The proposed mitigation management plan has taken into consideration when
mitigation measures should be taken and the responsibilities of various actors
depending on the nature of impacts. Thus the mitigation plan should consider pre-
construction (design), construction and operational phases. The proposed mitigation
plans are shown in Table 1.
TABLE 1:   MITIGATION PLAN
POTENTIAL IMPACTS                   MITIGATION         PHASE        IMPLEMENTERS
__________________MEASURES
(a). Construction impacts
Destruction of vegetation leading into soil Confine activities on- Design    &  Contractor
erosion because of access roads creation  site.        Construction  monitored by
during transportation of drilling rigs and
other equipment to well sites and/or Use labor intensive
pipelines construction.            technology.
Land restoration and  Construction  Contractor
re-planting trees.  &          monitored      by
Operational  Supervising
Engineer
Dumping  of  drilling  wastes  and  Removal & proper Construction  Contractor
construction spoils.                disposal   of  all              monitored  by  a
construction  spoils           Supervision
and   other  solid             Engineer.
wastes.
42



POTENTIAL IMPACTS                    MITIGATION          PHASE         IMPLEMENTERS
MEASURES
Loss of crops and agricultural land due to  Consultation    with  Design &  District
crossing pipelines route or well siting.  community                    Council/Regional
representatives                  Water  Board  in
when       locating              collaboration   with
pipeline  route  or Construction  Water Committees
well/borehole sites.
Avoid damage to
private property but
compensation should
be paid whenever
necessary.
Water pollution from pit latrines due to  Locate the wells at Design    &  Contractor
bore hole/shallow wells being too close to  reasonable distance  Construction  monitored  by  a
human settlements.                   from  pit latrines (at            Supervision
least 50 m).                     Engineer       in
collaboration   with
Village    Water
Committees.
Fence off boreholes  Operational   Contractor
or shallow well sites            monitored      by
to         prevent               Supervision
encroachment   by                Engineer       in
people   due   to                collaboration   with
settlement                       Village    Water
expansion. The area              Committees
should be declared
protected    under
village by-laws.
Occupational health & safety of workers  Contractor should be  Construction  Contractor
during construction                  responsible     for               monitored  by  a
health & safety of               Supervision
workers.                         Engineer.
Only       trained
personnel should be
allowed to operate
equipment on-site.
There should be a
qualified person to
administer first aide
on-site.
Increased incidence of STD & HIV/AIDS  Awareness      &  Construction  Health  Committee
due to construction workforce in the  education campaigns             in Collaboration with
village.                              on STD and HIV.                  Village
Dispensary/MCH
staff.
Locate        the  Design    &
construction   camp  Construction
far away from village
settlement.
43



POTENTIAL IMPACTS                    MITIGATION          PHASE         IMPLEMENTERS
MEASURES
Limit  number  of Design    &  Contractor       in
workforce      to  Construction  collaboration   with
technical &  skilled             Village government
labor only. The rest             and    Supervision
of workforce should              Engineer
come from the rural
communities.
B. Community Impacts
Bush  fires  &  tree  felling  by  local Enforce by-laws to  Construction  Village government
community around water sources and  discourage    bush  & Operation  and District councils
upper catchment.                     fires around  water
sources       and
catchment areas.
Promote the use of Construction  Water Committees
alternative         & Operation  in collaboration with
construction                    local NGOs, CBOs,
materials and energy             etc.
sources to minimize
deforestation.
Initiate
environmental
education     and
awareness
campaigns.
Accumulation of wastewater around well Prevent people from  Operational  Village government
sites or standpipes due to people washing  washing or bathing         in collaboration with
or bathing close to the water sources, close to well sites or          Village     water
hence into potential breeding sites for stand pipes though             Committees.
mosquitoes.                          enactment  of  by-
laws.                           .
Construct  standard  Construction  Contractor    and
concrete  pads  for              Design Engineers in
standpipes   and/or              collaboration   with
hand pump shallow                Village     Water
wells     drainage               Committees.
channel  to  carry
spilled  water  into
soakways.
Encroachment to well sites and open  Fencing   off  and  Construction  Village Government
water sources due to expansion of human  demarcating      & Operation  in collaboration with
settlement and farmlands.             boundaries of well               Water Committees.
site/boreholes.
Well/borehole  sites
should be declared
protected area under
village by-laws.
Pollution of open water sources due to  Treat   water  in  Operation   Trained  personnel
human activities and trampling by    storage tanks and/or              appointed by village
livestock.                           reservoirs       by               water committee.
chlorination,
especially in small
towns.
44



POTENTIAL IMPACTS                     MITIGATION         PHASE         IMPLEMENTERS
MEASURES
People  should  be  Operation    Water committee.
educated      and
encouraged to boil               Local  dispensary
drinking water.                  staff.
Promote the use of               Village
pit latrines through             Governments   in
education  and  by-              collaboration   with
laws.                            Water          or
Environmental
Committees.
Damage to pipelines by local people  Declare right of way  Construction  Village government
during cultivation and planting crops with  (RoW) and enact by- & Operation  in collaboration with
deep rooting systems along pipeline route.  laws  to  prevent          Water          or
people       from                Environment
cultivating    along             Committees
pipeline route.
Pipelines should be  Construction  Contractor.
submerged   below
the ground to an
appropriate depth.
C. Water use Impacts
Spontaneous growth of algae and other Proper design  for Design    &  Contractor
waterweeds in open storage tanks or water storage tanks  Construction  monitored      by
reservoirs  due  to  temperature  and  and /or reservoirs.             Supervision
exposure to sunlight.                                                  Engineer
Periodic cleaning of Operation   Trained  personnel
water storage tanks              appointed by Village
and/or reservoirs.               water Committee
Over-extraction of groundwater leading  Amount  of  water Construction  Contractor
into  land  instability  and  hydrological extracted  for              monitored      by
imbalance.                            domestic purpose is             supervision
not  expected  to                Engineer.
cause    significant
impacts. However, a
precaution may be
taken  limiting  the
number of wells or
boreholes per unit
area.
Periodic  monitoring  Operation  Trained   persons
of  ground   water               appointed by Village
levels  should  be               Committees
instituted.
6.2 MONITORING
The objective of monitoring plan is to ensure that the proposed mitigation measures
are properly followed and whether they are effective. Also, the purpose is to identify
unforeseen negative impacts during and after the project implementation.
During monitoring attention should be paid on the contractor's activities on-site and
community activities. This is to ensure that the proposed mitigation measures are
45



properly followed during construction and operational phase. Again, monitoring
exercise should include biophysical and social parameters and there should be a
criteria for assessment as shown in the checklist of monitoring indicators (Table 2).
TABLE 2: CHECKLIST OF MONITORING INDICATORS
MONITORING INDICATORS                    ASSESSMENT CRITERIA
1.  WELLUBOREHOLE SITES
Hand pump base condition (strength).     Durability.
Location of pit latrines, burial sites, graveyards Distance (at least 50 m)
and other contaminant sources relative to well
sites.
Location of soakways from well sites.    Distance (at least 25 m).
Location of water table relative to pit latrine Distance (at least 2.0 m).
bottom
Presence of animal and or human waste Cow  dung  and/or  human
around well sites.                       wastes.
Presence of standing wastewater around well Standing water with mosquito
sites and disease transmitting vectors  larvae.
Presence of livestock water drinking troughs Number of charcos
(charcos).
Presence of concrete pads and drainage Standard design (RWSD)
channel for carrying water to soak-ways.
On-going  human  activities  around  well People washing and/or bathing
sites/standpipes.
Presence of spilled oil, drilling wastes and Oil, drilling mud, soil, rock
other construction wastes.               waste, etc.
11. WATER RESOURCE
Ground water levels and recharge rates.  Depth (m) and recharge rate
(L/s)
Changes in water quality                 Tanzania standards.
On-going human activities around natural Bush  fires,  tree  felling,
water sources and catchment areas.       cultivation, etc.
Characteristics of water storage tank/reservoir. Standard design.
Ill  HEALTH & SAFETY
Incidence of waterborne and sanitary related  Malaria,  diarrhea,  typhoid,
diseases.                                trachoma, etc.
Prevalence of STDs and HIV/AIDS among the Reported STDs and HIV/AIDS
rural people.                            cases.
Presence  of first aid-box on-site during Completed first aid kit
construction.
Incidence of accidents due to construction  Reported cases.
activities.
IV  SANITATION & HYGIENE
Presence and condition of pit latrine (e.g. VIP)  Number of households.
Presence of wastewater disposal facilities  Number of households.
Drinking water handling practice (e.g. boiling).  Number of households.
V.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
Presence of water committees and water fund Water  committee  operating
contribution.                            bank account
Gender representation in village committees.   Number  of  Men  against
Women.
46



Presence of active economic groups.     Number of groups & their
economic activities.
Community  awareness  &  education  on Environmental  conservation,
environment, sanitation & hygiene matters.    sanitation & hygiene practice.
Presence and enforcement of by-laws on Existing by-laws.
environment & water resource protection.
VI. SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONDITION
=___ Changes in local people's livelihood.  Income per capita
Improved access to good quality water Distance of water source from
resulting into increased opportunity by women households (not more than 400
to participate in other productive activities.  m).
Education.                              Number  of  schools   &
enrollment.
Medical services.                       Number of dispensaries &
availability of medicine.
Transport.                              Road network conditions &
I major means of transport.
7.0   TRAINING PLAN
In developing EA training plan the consultant has tried to consider training needs at
district and village levels. Training needs assessment has also taken into
consideration on-going policy and institutional changes, and the importance of
private sector participation in this project.
The contents of the training course should focus on the needs of the  local
communities as direct beneficiaries and implementers of the project. Thus, their
curriculum should focus in enabling them utilize the existing natural resources,
including water in a sustainable and environmentally sound manner. In that case
training programme should focus on the relationship between water resource,
environment and sanitation & hygiene. Indeed environment should be central and
cross-cutting issue water, sanitation & health, forestry, fisheries, agriculture and
wildlife. Again, to ensure successful implementation of environmental mitigation
plans the target groups should be exposed to existing policies, legislation and by-
laws related to environment and water resource management. Other important
aspects   of  the   training   programme   should  include   financial   &
managerial/administrative skills, especially for Village government leaders and
Water committees.
So that training programme can be effective the consultant proposes a SMART
approach. That is, training programme should be Specific in its contents, with
Measurable out put, Achievable objectives and/or goals, Realistic in local context
and should be delivered within a certain Time frame. In this connection the
programme should ensure awareness training and public education is provided to
cover all stakeholders, especially the water users at community level and the rural
community in general.
(a)   Programme Implementers & Target Group
47



The implementers of the training programme in this case should be the existing
expertise in water related sectors at district level. These include:
The District water Engineer (DWE).
Forestry & Wildlife Officers.
Agricultural Officers.
Health Officers.
Community Development Officers (CDOs).
At the village level the target groups should include selected representatives from
the following:
* Youths and Women Economic Groups.
* Village Water Committees.
* Health Committees.
* Social Welfare Committees.
* Defense & Security Committees.
* School Committees.
* Village Government.
* School Children.
* Individuals (Women and Men) from Community members.
(b)   Contents of the Training
Specifically, the contents of the training course shall include, but not limited to:
Ground water monitoring techniques (quality & quantity).
Sanitary survey techniques including how to fill monitoring survey forms.
Existing policies, legislation, regulations and by-laws pertaining to environment and
water resource management.
Construction of VIP latrines and wastewater disposal chambers by using cheap and
locally available materials, especially the local artisans. The local artisans will be
provided with instructional manuals.
48



Relationship between land degradation (vegetation) and water resource (quantity &
quality), with emphasis on hydrological cycles.
Effect of water pollution on human health & poverty with emphasis on the
relationship between poor sanitation & hygiene conditions and prevalence of
waterborne & sanitary related diseases.
Financial and managerial skills, especially Village Government leaders, Village
Water committees, Youths & Women economic Groups.
(c)   Training methods & materials
The methodology should involve case studies, site visits and general awareness
campaigns. The training materials at community level shall include posters,
pamphlets, theatres and video shows, etc.
(d)   Time frame
The training Programme should proceed in three stages, whereby Stage I shall start
with sector expertise at the district level (e.g. District Natural Resource Officers) and
Local artisans (VIP latrines). The implementers of the programme at this stage
should involve local NGOs, Private Consultants and/or Relevant Institutions. This is
expected to take at least two (2) weeks. The expected output should be Trained
expertise as Trainers of Trainers. Again, the trained expertise in collaboration with
Local NGO should start to train representatives of Youth & Women Groups
(Economic Groups), Village Committees and Local artisans (Construction of VIP
latrines), in Stage 11. The output shall be the Trained Representatives from Village
Committees, Youths & Women Groups and Local artisans. The training programme
is expected to start 6 months before project implementation and will take at least
three (3) weeks to complete.
In Stage Ill the programme will involve the rural communities in general. The training
shall take off during project implementation and become a continuos process as on-
the job training, assisted by trained groups. At this stage, the programme will be a
form of more or less awareness and education campaigns to mobilize the rural
people in incorporating environmental sanitation & hygiene issues in their daily life.
Finally, there shall be a periodic follow-up to evaluate the effectiveness of the
training programme. This shall be done by qualified local consultants dealing with
Environment and Socio-economic issues. The consultants shall provide a feedback
to the responsible authorities at community (Village government), district (District
council) and national levels (MWLD). The proposed training plan is summarized in
Table 3.
(e)   Source of Funding
The major source of funding to implement the training programme is expected partly
from the rural communities, the District Councils, the Government of Tanzania,
49



through the MWLD and the World Bank. Other funds should be sought from external
support agencies (ESAs).
50



TABLE 3:  PROPOSED TRAINING PLAN
STAGES   TARGET GROUP                IMPLEMENTERS            CONTENTS                                TIMING    DURATION    OUTPUT
STAGE I  Sector expertise at District Qualified  local NGOs, Ground water monitoring and sanitary  12           2 weeks        Trained
level (e.g. District Natural Private  Consultants  &  survey techniques.                  months
Resource Officers)       related Institutions.    Existing policies, & legislation regulations  before
and by-laws pertaining to environment &  project                 trainers.
water resource.                         starts.
Land degradation and water resources
availability & quality with emphasis on
hydrological cycle.
Effect of water pollution on human health
and poverty with emphasis on sanitation &
hygiene.
STAGE II  Representatives from:      Sector expertise        As above                                As above  3 weeks         Trained
-  Youths  &   Women                                                                                                representatives
Groups
-Village committee.
- Village Members
Local artisans.           Local NGO dealing with  Construction   of  VIP  latrines  and  As above                   Trained  local
promotion    of   VIP  wastewater  disposal  chambers  using                             artisans.
latrines.               cheap and locally available materials.
Representatives from:     Financial and Business  Financial and Managerial or Administrative                        Trained village
Institutions            skills.
-  Youths  &   Women                                                                                                village
Groups.                                                                                                             government
leaders.
-Village committee.
- Village Members
STAGE    Rural  communities  in  Sector   expertise   in  Education & awareness campaigns on  During            Continuous    Increased
III        general.                  collaboration with Water environment,  sanitation   &   hygiene  and after                awareness  on
&         Environment promotion.                                project                   environment,
Committees.                                                     impleme
ntation.                 hygiene
5 1__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _m aatters
51



APPENDIX I:      REFERENCES
Baumann & Lymo, B. (2000). Tanzania Supply Chain Study Report. Skat,
Switzerland & Serviceplan Ltd, Tanzania.
Bj0rnstad, (2000). Environmental Impact Assessment in Tanzania. Assessment and
Proposed Guidelines for Water related Project. Ministry of Water-River Basin
Management & NORPLAN.
Bj0rnstad, (2000). Water Quality Standards. Assessment and Proposal for Revision
Conyers, D., Ayo J.N., Luoga, D.O. 1971. Agro-economic zones of Coast and
Morogoro Region. Research Report No. 48. Bureau of Resource Assessment and
Land use Planning.
IRA/IIED, (1995). Environmental Assessment in Tanzania. A needs Assessment for
Training.
Mercier, Jean-Roger, (1995). Environmental Assessment and Review in Sub-
Saharan Africa. An Africa Region/World Bank Respective. Environmentally
Sustainable Development Division. Africa Technical Department (AFTES). The
World Bank.
MLHSD, (1997). National Land Policy. The United Republic of Tanzania.
MMK Project Services Ltd. (1999). Rural Water Supply Review in three Pilot District.
Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Learning and Innovation Loan - LIL
MOW, (1999). The United Republic of Tanzania. Rural Water Supply & Sanitation
(Leaming and Innovation). Loan (LIL-RWSSP). Draft Implementation Manual.
MOW, (2000). Draft National Water Policy. The United Republic of Tanzania
Mwalyosi R. & Hughes, R. (1998). The Performance of EIA in Tanzania. An
Assessment. IRA Research Paper No. 41. IIED Environmental Planning Issues No.
14.
NORPLAN, (2000). Review of Water Resource Management Policy Legislation and
Institutional Frameworks. Final Report. Ministry of Water United Republic of
Tanzania
TANAPA (1994). National Policies for National Parks in Tanzania. Tanzania
National Parks. March, 1994 66pp.
TANAPA (1993). Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure and Screening
Guidelines. Tanzania National Parks, Arusha.
The Land Act, (1999). The United Republic of Tanzania Act Supplement No. 6 21 of
May 1999. Gazette of the United Republic of Tanzania No. 21, Vol. 80
52



The Village Land Act, (1999). The United Republic of Tanzania. Act Supplement No.
7 of 21st May 1999. Gazette of the United Republic of Tanzania No. 27, Vol. 80
Water Laws (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act. Gazette of the United Republic of
Tanzania. No. 16 Vol. 80, Dar Es Salaam16 April 1999
World Bank Operational Manual. Operational Directive (OD.4.00 Annex A). October
1989.
TANAPA Planning Unit (1994). Management Zone Plan: Tarangire National Park.
Environmental Impact Assessment. Prepared for Tanzania National Parks
(TANAPA).
53



APPENDIX II:    SUMMARY OF VILLAGE BASELINE INFORMATION
(a)   Social Services
(i)   Education
Out of seven villages four of them have at least one primary school. However, the
people complain of lack inadequate classrooms, teaching staff and teachers'
houses. The enrolment ratio (measured as No. of pupils per household) based on
the available data (Table 2) is estimated to be 0.67. This is based on the assumption
that each household should be able to enroll at least one pupil of school age. Basing
on this assumption school enrollment in the project area can be said to be fairly
good.
(ii)   Health
There are no adequate medical services in all villages, although there is at least one
dispensary in villages like Muungano, Chanzuru and Msimba (Table 3) However,
lack of medicine, inadequate staff has been reported to be a constraint.
In Chanzuru village community health fund has been established but people
complained of lack of financial capability to contribute. For other villages without
dispensary people have to travel long distances (e.g. Twatwatwa, Kihelezo and
Nguyami).
(iii)  Transport
The major means of transport in all villages is bicycle. However, majorities of people
do travel on foot. Donkeys are also used for carrying luggage, especially in
Twatwatwa village.
Generally, road networks in all villages is poor, hence making communication
somehow difficult. However, for those villages situated along the main roads (e.g.
Msimba and Kiegea) communication is rather easier, although transport cost is a
constraint.
(iv)   Energy
The main source of energy in all villages is fuel wood and charcoal for cooking and
kerosene for lighting during the night. However, at Muungano and Kihelezo villages
there is electricity but it is only utilized for running flour milling machines.
(b)   Land use and Land tenure
The land in most of the villages is used for farming and livestock keeping. Land
ownership in all villages is by individuals on permanent basis. Traditionally land is
inherited but also can be sold or rented. However, the Village Governments (VGs)
control land allocation.
54



Land use conflict is a major problem in Kilosa district, especially in the Rudewa
Ward-Mbuyuni village, between farmers and pastoralists (mainly the Masai tribe).
Another land use conflict is between the Muungano village government and
Kimamba    Fiber
Estate.             BOXi
(c)   Water           d gto theRiid    Ward ou          t  M     pastorallt
supplies & Quality   m       f    to  D      si   1950&Te i lsi
ineqjuftabr laid illocatin b farm ers and pastoralistO. For
The~ maoiyo   exampleaccoring to. the h*wff ilaige Chairma   the
The  majority  of        is X n ;                     .-      s-be
villages depend on   aha; J'8"a mo tfhpans        *tl-W -e buthiave o beeKin
hand pump shallow   di0has 461vinage bii    3         N    all1
wells,   traditional  pTe                         of adiae-nt ; Mr-  Awil
wells,               allah(Kilosa MP},cs   Ilcatlerequires 5 asear
streams/rivers (e.g.  (25 hay) of   ing lan  T. hu 6OO  catte would re*qie
Twatwatwa)     or  3OODO0& acres/ar (IS(1OPOQ. ha/year. ThW.epstoralistsalao run
natural springs (e    fn thallocatd aesa d   tO           - infsat
Kiegea). However,  meutsoc*aI sevcs
most of them have
complained of high
salinity in water from bore holes and shallow wells. Water is used mainly for
domestic purpose and livestock (e.g.  BO  2
Twatwatwa) except at Msimba  and
Chanzuru the people also use water  At Muunganovlage it:was clared thai
from the stream for irrigation.      the village bunaries pass trough the
Kimamba  Fiber Estate   h Te Central
According to Chanzuru people there  Govemrment. odered that Xtose farms
was a pumped pipe scheme installed   borderingtheNviWgshoutdcbeahocatedto
but it was taken by the then District  the  villager.  However.  the  Estate
Commissioner  (Mr. Kasapila).  The  management decidedto appropriate the
replacement was made but the Village  farms although they could Inot cultivate
Chairman refused, because it was not  The Tanzania Sisal Authority   was
of the same capacity. However, the  informed about the problem but so far no
DC's office has promised to work on  actionhasbeenten       -
the matter.
At Msimba village people claimed of one shallow well being destroyed by floods
because it was located too close to the river. However, the water from shallow well
has been claimed by the villagers to be saline. Generally, the people complained of
inadequate supply, salinity, poor quality and distance as a major water supply
problem. Other specific problems are expressed as shown in Box 3. The water
quality analysis from 8 bore holes at Kihelezo village indicates water from 6 bore
holes are unsuitable for domestic purpose due to high iron content (Appendix IV).
55



(d)   Willingness and Ability
to Pay for Water 
Generally, the people are willing                     
to pay for water supply services       _ 
but Jack of financial capability is                            e
a constraint. For example the i c  <               '
Chanzuru people are willing to  ~e~t
pay 30/= per bucket. Howeve r,      biK                   mM!U#
the contribution of people to    I'                    g
water funds is still low. So far  R
only  Kihelezo  and  Msimbath e     eavil
village has established  their
water funds with 20,000/= but it    3  
has not yet opened a bank     A
The    problem    of   fund 
mismanagement,  lack   of ation.
managerial           and/or mteri a
administrative skills is commons
in the majority of villages. The  nhais       f       fo w
community awareness on the                           
importance of contributing to 
water funds is still low in the      l      k
majority of villages. However, the enforcement of village by-laws is being effected in
some villages (Box 4.
(e)   Sanitation & Hygiene
The majority of people in all ten  ~X4  
villages have unlined pit latrines
with temporary walls made up of   Wexr %               nvil
grass and open roofs. However,
other households do not have pit
latrines at all. The problem with pit
latrines is poor durability, as they
tend to collapse and produce bad
smell due to lack of ventilation.
Their walls being made of grass material are usually vulnerable to attack by termites.
The pit latrines are mainly used for disposal of human waste, although sometimes
are used as bathrooms.
The majority of households do not have disposal facilities for wastewater from
kitchen. However, at Kihelezo, Muungano and Msimba villages some households
have constructed underground chambers locally known as "karo' for wastewater
disposal. Some improvement in sanitation condition can also be seen in other
villages (Box 5).
56



In all villages people do not boil
drinking water as they that boil water  In Nguyam  and Twatwatwa villages the
is tasteless, or there is not enough  schools have VIP latrines and^,henc the
time to do so. Other reason has been  peopleareaWreofVP latrines: However,
given to be ignorance and culture (Box  the lack of tehnial knhow and cost
6).                                  has.been mentioned to-be a cohstrit Al
Muuingano village schto  trine Is made
The most prevalent diseases include   up d tmnte    roofed w   iron sheet
malaria,  diarrhea,  skin  diseases,             P tyl*
typhoid, intestinal worms and TB. In
all ten villages HIV/AIDS is not seen to  ~  KhlZ  ilg  epeaeaaeo
dasinfeictantsi:but Fthe problem vs thatth
be a problem and people believe that                   ly          the
it is a disease that can only be brought  he commieeismc,tingpeoeto
by people from town.                build pit latrines.
The health committees at Kihelezo   omehosolsat Tt aille
and Kiegea villages provide hygiene  have durable pit latrines made up of
education and awareness to the rural  cement-floors and,burn bricks.:However,
people. At Msimba village hygiene  other villagers co.mplain of th  la do
education is offered by MCH staff. At  financial- resure.    rdingo to-them the
Chanzuru village hygiene education is  cst of building a toiet is almos hl the
provided by UNICEF through CSPD.  costofbuiligahouse..
The programme provides hygiene education and evaluates progress on quarterly
basis.
(f)   Institutional set-up
BOX 6.
The institutional set-up for all villages
is almost similar, whereby there is a  At Msimba.village peoPle claimed that they
Village Government (VG) headed by  do not bilt drinking water because the
the Village Chairman (VC). The VC is  believe water frm- shallow wells do not have
assisted  by the Village Executive  bacteria and therere is safe..A Chanzuru
Officer (VEO) and  Hamlet (sub-  v ag eo          ne an  bol
water wihenher is an out break: of choler,
village) Leaders. Under the VG there  othe   wat  from shallow wells do not
are three main committees followed   have bcteria and is.safe,
by  sub-committees.  The   main
committees are:                    Moringg to recent report from  Distric
Medial Officer bilharzla and diarrhea were the
*  Finance, Economy & Planning.     mnost prevalent diseases at .. Twatwawa
village Ac ingtoChannru village there
*  Defense & Security.                       ch.lren. A      between 198-
*  Construction & Social Services.    1998 TB was a thrat al gh t  probem
has now been c9red.         
However, whereas the set-up for
main committees is uniform for all villages, the sub-committees do vary depending
on the requirement of a particular village (Table 4). The gender representation is not
even nearly in all villages, whereby women participation is very low (Table 4).
57



The commonly available skills in the villages include masons, carpenters, few
mechanics and few retired civil servants. Generally, there are inadequate skills
available for O&M of water supply schemes.
(g)   Economic Groups
There are no economic groups in most of the villages due to lack of mobilization and
financial support.
For example at Msimba village there was a CCM Youth Group but due to financial
support the group disintegrated. However, other groups still exist such as
TUPENDANE, MSHIKAMANO, MSIMBA IRRIGATION PROJECT (MIP),
MWELEKEO and TUGEZE. Except TUPENDANE (All women) the rest of the groups
have male and female members, although women participation is still low.
At Muungano village there was an attempt to women groups dealing with Boutique
cloths. However, due to lack of market and capital to buy raw materials the group did
not survive.
At Chanzuru village the following economic groups exist:
(i)   TUPENDANE
This is a women group with 5 members. The group was found in 1999 to deal with
agriculture (farming) and selling food.
The group cultivated and planted 2 acres of maize, but yield was not good. It
obtained loan from special fund by the Ministry of Community Development, Women
and Children.
(ii)   HONGERA
This is also a women group with 5 members. It deals with agriculture and selling.
The group was formed in 1999. Every month each member in the group contributes
2,000/=
(iii) Chanzuru Irrigation Group.
The group was assisted by Traditional Irrigation Project (TIP) between 1997 and
1999. The TIP trained them on the construction of irrigation canals, tree planting,
and preparation of tree nurseries and construction of efficient charcoal stoves
(Majiko Sanifu). The group is faced with a number of problems as explained by one
of its leaders (Box 7).
(h)   Source of Revenue
58



The main source of revenue is
tax and fees collected from   BOX 7.
selling, farm products, charcoal,
timber, local brew  and small  According to: t  group charmn itwas difut t
business   (kiosks).   Other  plant tee-arqulid the water source becuse the
contribution  is  from   15%  lirgatiOn!cndals weren:potiperW buit Cattle: also
retention  on  hand  cart and  dagthetree
bicycle  license, as well as,  Th chai  clai  tht the TIP expe did not
development levy introduced by  X pefd         t f                    -- -
the   District  Councils.  For  Nowert wen tey        bac they want  th
example according to Msimba  gtocotiue5%.ohtecost. Butthgroup
village chairman, the village   WMid to meet thie cndition snidWhen.the contrac
collects revenue through  an  ended the .;do&os; pulled out. However, according
agent. Under this set-up the  to tthe chairman th  Distict. Commissioner has
agent gets 7.5%  and village  promised them -somne assistance from the .World
gets 7.5%. The agent submits  Bank.
collection   to  the   Ward
Executive Officer (WEO). The distribution of revenue is: 15% village government,
5% Ward Council and 80% District Council.
At Msimba village revenue also comes from rental charges on a building used for
selling local brew at a rate of 200/= per day.
There is also a primary education fund known as MEM, whereby every able-bodied
person contributes 2,500/= per year. Parents also contribute 2,000/= per year per
child. Again, at Muungano village MEM contribution is 1,500/= per person per year
and parents contribution is 2,000/= per child per year.
For Chanzuru village MEM contribution is also 2,000/= per child per year and
3,000/= per household per year. According to the village chairman initially MEM was
set at 6,000/= but due to villagers' low income it was set at 2,000/=.
The Twatwatwa and Kiegea people also mentione.1 rnntrihtion for lJhllrl Torrh as
another source of revenue.                    B0:
(i)   Donor Funded Projects                   At;!AMuUano    -  people
were - . 0111nedl.   .aW
There is no significant donor funded project in maj postA  ot iiis'ae ou   u
Nguyami and Msimba villages. The existing dono r ttl de       t     K    F
project at Chanzuru village (Uhai & Maendeleo ya    s   banks   ,   human  F
project deals with vaccination, clinical services, tre  u   an
child nutrition. The Irish Aid deals with rehabilitatio  ao   -s. bashas
resu.lted int incre-sed
At Nguyami village there is Irish Aid Project de  incien  of floods due, to ry
school rehabilitation as well as, hand pump shall seOfihenionofstrembe    ie
Netherlands government under DHV Consultants.
Again, the Chanzuru peoe
conceded. that Intensity of
floods has. been erted
59        by  vegetation   destruction
along stream banks, resuting
into instabiiity and shiffing of
stream . banks towards the
villaae settlement and farms.



According to Msimba village chairman there is Agriculture Sector Programme
Support (ASPS). The project is concerned with production and supply of millet seed.
The project started in 1999 by demonstration to villagers and by 2000 it started
production of seeds. Another project is the Linked Local Learning (LLL) funded by
DANIDA. The programme carried out a seminar between 12-17 June 2000. It
involved farmers from three villages (Vidunda, Kizanga & Msimba), Experts-
Agriculture, Natural Resource, and Livestock and Water sector from four districts of
Iringa, Mwanga, Handeni and Kilosa.
0)   Village funded Projects
There is no significant village funded projects, except MEM which is concerned with
promotion of Primary School Education through contribution from the local
community. However, the Chanzuru village has one acre farm with 68 coconut trees.
The coconut is usually harvested and sold. Some of it is used to produce local brew
which is also sold.
(k)   Environmental Problems
The common environmental problems include bush fires, tree felling and water
pollution. However, in some villages (e.g. Kihelezo) people are aware of
environmental degradation and they have some knowledge of the consequence of
their actions (Box 8).
Generally, land degradation is common nearly in all villages but it is more
conspicuous in those villages located in semi-arid zones.
(I)   Natural Disasters
Periodic floods have been reported to be the most common natural disasters,
especially in those villages located in the flood plain (e.g. Twatwatwa and
Chanzuru).
(k)   Common Problems
In all villages lack of clean, safe, adequate, accessible and affordable water supply
has been ranked as a first major problem. However, other problems are also
significant but of course vary from village to village. The following are the common
problems in all villages of this district.
Lack of safe & clean water and long distances to fetch water.
Periodic food shortage.
Lack of adequate medical services.
Poor road conditions.
Lack of school teachers, classrooms, and durable pit latrines and teachers houses.
Lack of farm inputs such as fertilizers and implements as well as inadequate arable
lands.
60



Water borne diseases such as malaria, diarrhea, skin diseases and eye disease
(trachoma).
FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Following are the important findings and recommendations (shown by small bullets)
from the village baseline information:
(a)   Water Supply & Quality
The community's activities around water sources, especially farming close to stream
banks significantly contributes to environmental degradation, hence threatening the
sustainability of water resource. Their actions also create a potential hazard to
natural disaster like floods.
Most of the hand-pump shallow wells and boreholes have saline water that is
unsuitable of drinking and other domestic purpose like washing clothes. However,
the local community has proposed some alternative source such as the existing
natural springs (e.g. Kiegea), where Gravity pipe can be installed.
Laboratory analysis indicates a significant number of boreholes in some villages
contain water with high iron content and therefore unsuitable for domestic purpose
(Appendix IV).
Inappropriate location can affect the sustainability of a water scheme, such as
construction of a shallow well close to a river or stream (e.g. Msimba).
By-laws be established and enforced to discourage pollution of water sources by
restricting farming and settlement at a distance not less than 200 m from stream
banks. The zone should be declared village controlled area and by-laws enacted to
prevent trespassers.
Thorough investigation should be done to identify new sources in collaboration with
the local people.
The local people should be involved in the identification of appropriate location for
shallow wells or boreholes construction.
Thorough investigation should be done to determine water quality in all boreholes
and shallow wells in the project area.
Thorough investigation should be done to identify new sources in collaboration with
the local people.
(b)   Donor funded projects
The existing NGOs, including donor funded projects in the area such as ASPS, LLL
and UNICEF are important ingredient to the RWSSP if linkage and co-ordination can
be established.
61



Co-operation and co-ordination should be established with the existing programs
(e.g. ASPS, LLL, etc.) in the project area.
(c)   Economic groups
The formation of economic groups is important for capacity building as they tend to
expand the village revenue base, and hence financial capability in handling water
resource and environmental management in general. However, lack of financial
support and inadequate skills in financial management is an obstacle to the
sustainability of the groups.
Existing economic groups should be strengthened and formation of new ones should
be promoted through community mobilization. The village government should
collaborate with DCs to solicit funds to provide soft loans to the groups.
(d)   Gender representation
Gender representation is still poor as can be shown by low participation of women in
village committees. Women not only play a vital role in rural water & sanitation, as
well as environmental management, but also they are the most vulnerable group.
Thus lack of participation alienates them from important decision-making process as
far as RWSSP is concerned.
Equal gender representation should be promoted by encouraging women to
participate in various committees through awareness and education campaigns.
(e)   Sanitation & Hygiene
Inability to boil drinking water by most households is a result of people's ignorance
on the linkage between water borne diseases and drinking non-boiled water.
The majority of people do not build durable pit latrines, especially VIP due to lack of
financial capability and technical know how.
Hygiene education should be intensified to complement efforts being done by
UNICEF and CSPD.
The local community, especially artisans should be trained on the construction of
VIP latrines by using cheap and locally obtained materials.
(f)   Willingness to Pay for Water
The willingness to pay for water is hampered by lack of financial capability and poor
financial and managerial skills by community leaders, especially water committees. It
has been noted that fund mismanagement makes the community members to
mistrust their leaders and therefore refuse to contribute to water funds.
62



The community leaders, including the water committees should be trained in
financial management and managerial skills.
(g)   Land Use
Land use or resource use conflict among the rural people is a potential problem that
can jeopardize the sustainability of RWSSP (Rudewa Mbuyuni).
Peace and tranquility should be promoted among the local people, especially
between livestock keepers and farmers. The local people should be involved in land
use zoning to demarcate grazing areas from cultivated areas.
Table 1: Human Population and Livestock
No.  Village         Population    No.           of Livestock
I_______________ households
1.    Chanzuru      3000           532              Few goats
Many poultry
2.    Twatwatwa      3500           120             72,000 cattle; 51,000
goats, 2,000 donkeys.
Many poultry
3.    Kihelezo       3088           849             Few goats & cattle
Many poultry
4.    Msimba         1856          456              Few  cattle, donkeys,
goats and pigs.
Many poultry
5.    Muungano       2204          450              Few poultry
6.    Kiegea         3666           611             Some       significant
number of cattle &
goats.
7.    Nguyami        2797           650             Some       significant
number of cattle &
goats.
Many poultry.
Table 2: Education status
No. Village       No. of Schools  Enrolment  Households  Enrolment ratio
(No. /hh)
1.  Chanzuru      1              440         532          0.83
2.  Twatwatwa    2                111        120          0.93
3.  Kihelezo      1               315        849          0.37
4.  Msimba        1               296        456          0.65
5.  Muungano      1               308        450          0.68
6.  Kiegea        1               215        611          0.35
7.  Nguyami       1               242        650          0.37
TOTAL        7               1927        3668        (AV. = 0.67)
Table 3:    Health status
No. I Village      No. of Dispensary         Disease Prevalence
63



1.    Chanzuru      I                         Malaria, diarrhea, skin disease,
TB.
2.    Twatwatwa    None                       Malaria, diarrhea TB bilharzia,
typhoid.
3.    Kihelezo      None                      Malaria, diarrhea, bilharzia
4.    Msimba        1                         Malaria,  diarrhea,  bilharzia
typhoid, skin disease.
5.    Muungano      1                         Malaria,  diarrhea,  bilharzia
typhoid, TB.
6.    Kiegea                                 | Malaria,  diarrhea,  typhoid,
intestinal wa-ms.
7.    Nguyami       None                      Malaria, diarrhea, meningitis,
skin disease, bilharzia
Table 4:    Gender representation in various committees
VILLAGE         COMMITTEES                    GENDER
REPRESENTATION
MEN  1WOME  ITOTAL
|N
KIHELEZO        Finance, Economy & Planning  4       2         6
Defense & Security           7       -         7
Construction & Social Services 4     3         7
Water                        3       3         6
Environment                  5       2         7
Education                    12      3         15
MSIMBA          Finance, Economy & Planning  5       3         8
Defense & Security           6       2         8
Construction & Social services  5    3         8
Water                         10     5         15
Health                       11      4         15
_  School                     8       5         13
MUUNGANO    Finance, Economy & Planning  5           2         7
Defense & Security           5       -         5
Construction & Social services  5    -          5
Water                        12      11        23
School                       12      2         14
CHANZURU        Finance, Economy & Plannin   5       2         7
Defense & Security           5       2         7
Construction & Social Service  4     3         7
Water                        3       2         5
Irrigation & Drainage        10      5         15
School                       10      5         15
TWATWATWA  Finance, Economy & Planning  4            2         6
Defense & Security           4       1         5
Construction & Social Service   6    2         8
Water                        6       2         8
Environment                  17      4         21
64



I School                    17     j3         10
Pasture                    116   1-         116
KIEGEA         Finance, Economy & Planning  4      1        5
l_____  ~Defense & Security                 5      -         5
I_____ ~Social Service                      4      1         5
l_____  ~Water                              4      4         8
l ________   Health                         3      2         5
NGUYAMI        Finance, Economy & Planning  3      2        5
Social Service              4      -         5
Defense & Security          4      1         5
Production (Nguvu kazi)     4      -         5
Table 5:   Village water funds
VILLAGE                                     WATER FUND
1.   Kihelezo                                    500,000/=
2.   Msimba                                       20,000/= not in a bank
3.   Muungano                                     60,800I=a
4.   Chanzuru
5.   Twatwatwa
6.   Kiegea
7.   Nguyami                                      *
a     There is 4Nos. shallow wells and each shallow well has a committee with its own
water fund. Shallow well No.1 = 49,000/= and No. 3 =11,800/=. This makes a total of
60,800/=. Other committees do not have water funds.
Data   could   not   be   easily   obtained   during   the   study.
65



APPENDIX III:    WATER SUPPLY STATUS FOR TEN SELECTED VILLAGES
___  VILLAGE   WATER SCHEME         STATUS    COVERAGE    REQUIREMENTS               OTHER SOURCES
1.  Kihelezo   3  Nos. hand  pump Working       31%           Construction of new  Nearby seasonal stream.
shallow wells.                                 scheme.
2.  Chanzuru  1 No. borehole fitted Not working  26%          Rehabilitation    and  Nearby natural stream
with electric pump.                            Construction of new
Working                   scheme.
3 Nos. shallow wells.
3.  Msimba    8 Nos. shallow wells.   Only 2 wells 24%        Construction  of new  Nearby stream
working                   scheme.
4.  Muungano 2 Nos. shallowwells.   Working     16%           Construction of new  Nearby Mkondoa stream
scheme.
5.  Twatwatw  None                              0%            Construction  of new  River Mkata-5 km from  the village
la                                                        scheme.               and a small dam.
6.  Kiegea     1   No.  hand-pump  Not working  0%            Rehabilitation of hand  Natural spring-7 km from the village
shallowwell.                                   pump  shallow   well and a small pond.
and Construction of
new scheme.
7.  Nguyami   1 Nos. Gravity pipe   Not working  0%           Rehabilitation    and  Seasonal stream and traditional well.
Construction of new
scheme.
8.  Leshata    3 Nos. shallow wells.   Working  33%           Construction of new  -
scheme.
9.  Mkalama   None                              0%            Construction  of new  Seasonal stream.
scheme.
10. Meshugi   None                              0%            Construction  of new  Seasonal stream.
I_ _   ____ ___   ___ ___ ____ ___ __   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ sch em e.
Note: Information for Leshata, Mkalama and Meshugi is according to District Water Engineer (DWE). The rest is from field survey
and DWE's report.
APPENDIX IV:    WATER QUALITY DATA FOR SOME BOREHOLES
66



DATE_                              12.7.96      12.7.96      12.7.96       12 7.96    12.7.96     12.7.96      12.7.96     23.11.2000   23.11.2000
SOURCE                             KIHELEZO   KIHELEZO    MSIKITINI    KIH. CCM   KIH. JUU    MSINDAZI   MTAFUTENI KIHELEZO   MUUNGANO
BH 218/1-69  BH218/1-71-1  BH218/1-71-3  BH        BH         BH           BH           BH           BH 182/3-63
218/1-72-2  218/1-73-1  281/1-76   218/1-78-3   212/1-74
PARAMETER          TANZANIA
STANDARDS
EC (juS/cm) at 250C   2000         51.4         50.5         43 4          37.0       33.4        51.5         56.2        1759         776
pH                 6 5-9.2         6.5          6.5          ;.0           6.0        5.5         7.0          6.0          7.9
Settable matter: (MI/1) Not mentioned                                                                                      Neaglgible
Turbidity (NTU)    30                                                                                                       19.0
Ca  mg/IasCaCO3   200              5.0          13           D.0           6.0        1.0         2.0          11.0        38           212
Total Hardness: (mg/) 600          25.0         41           16.0          40.0       15.0        11.0         23.0         180         270
as CaCO3
Akalinity   mg/I  as Not mentioned   Nil        15           17.0          42         5.0         24.0         3.0                      241
Magnesium:     Mg' 100             20.0         28 0         10.0          36         14.0        9.0          12.0         20.7        58
(mg/l) ~      ~____
ron: Fe" (mg/)     1 0             3.3         3.30          2.04         2.44        232        0.45         3.3          Nil          Negligible
Aanganese:     Mn 0.5              Nil          Nil          Nil           Nil        Nil         Nil          Nil         Nil          Negligible
mg/l)
Permanganate  value 2.0                                                                                                    4.8          -
s mg KmnO4/l
hloride Cl-(mg/1)   800            7.0          18.0         13.0          8.0        5.0         7.0                      411.8        13
Fluoride: F (mg/I)    8.0                                                                                                   1.4         -
Sulphate: S04-     600                                                                                                      13.0        195
Phosphate:     P042- Not mentioned                                                                                          15.0        0.61
Nitrates: (mg/I) N03- as 100                                                                                                1.3         0.30
nitrogen
Nitrite: (mg/I) NO2 as Not mentioned                                                                                        0.002       -
nitrogen                                      .
REMARKS:                           NA           NA           NA            NA         NA          NA           ACCEPTABL ACCEPTABL ACCEPTABLE
E           E.
NOTE: NA = not acceptable for domestic purpose due to high iron content according to Tanzania Standards.
67



APPENDIX V:       LIST OF AUTHORITIES CONTACTED
LOCATION                   NAME                        DESIGNATION
KILOSA DISTRICT            Mr. R.A. Shangali           DED - Kilosa
Mr. G.K. Mbabaye            DWE- Kilosa
Mr. Mkoba                   WT-Kilosa
KIHELEZO VILLAGE
Omari Abdalah Mmandira (65  Retired village chairman
yrs)
Selemani Ndona (39 yrs)     Village chairman
Sauda Akbar (36 yrs)        Village Executive Officer
MSIMBA VILLAGE
Amani Kahawi (40yrs)        Village Executive Officer
Antoni Mwanga (41 yrs       Village chairman
Abdala Salehe Dege (41 yrs)  Chairman       Irrigation
Group
MUUNGANO VILLAGE
Abdala B. Kahaya (45 yrs)    Village chairman
Athumani Muhawila           Village Executive Officer
Ms. Mwanaisha Salum         Chairperson-Village water
Committee & Kwamilomo
hamlet chairperson
Lukas Ngaila                 Primary Health Assistant
CHANZURU VILLAGE
Ms. Alexander (42 yrs)      Village Executive Officer
Ms. Digna Mlelwa (32 yrs)   Community Development
Officer (CDO)
Abdala Mhalu (45 yrs)       Member-           Water
Committee
Mtoasala Iddi (60 yrs)      Member-           Water
committee
TWATWATWA VILLAGE
Abdalah Ole Niuyai          Village Chairman
Alhaji Shaweji Abdala       Member  of Parliament
(MP)
Omari Mchwaka               Councilor Rudewa
68



APPENDIX VI: TERMS OF REFERENCE
69



APPENDIX VIl:    LIST OF CONSULTANT'S TEAM
NAMES           QUALIFICATIONS   POSITION          RESPONSIBILITIES
1. A.M.L. AKO       Environmental      EA Consultant   Conducting      bio-physical
Scientist                         surveys.
Team Leader &   Provide logistical support.
Co-ordinator    Design  &  Preparation  of
Standard survey forms.
Preparabon of consolidated
report.
2. Ms. Flora         Social Scientist  Field assistant   Conduct    Socio-economic
surveys
Preparation of questionnaires.
Organizing meetings with local
people.
Preparabon of field report.
3.  Ngwisa          Environmental      Field assistant   Conduct biophysical surveys.
Engineer                          Collection of water samples.
Preparabon of field report.
4.  Morgan           Environmental     Field assistant   Conduct biophysical surveys.
Engineer                          Collection of water samples.
Preparabon of field report.
5.  Mr. Mkoba       Water Technician   Field assistant   Identification of well sites.
Collection of water samples.
70



APPENDIX VilI: CONSULTANT'S CURRICULUM VITAE
71



