Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3623 TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  April 12, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3623 TA 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 12, 2002, between the UNITED REPUBLIC OF 
TANZANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated February 
Page  2
1, 2002, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies to improve the performance of 
its rural water supply and sanitation sector, and increase resources to the sector (hereinafter 
referred to as the Program), and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program; 
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the 
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“AIDS” means the Acquired Immune Deficiency  Syndrome;
(b)
“Beneficiary” means a community, including a village, group of villages, or a 
township, which is a recipient of a Grant (as hereinafter defined) for the implementation of a 
Subproject (as hereinafter defined), and Beneficiaries shall mean such Beneficiaries collectively, 
provided, however that for purposes of Part B.1 (ii) of the Project, the term shall include a CBO 
(as hereinafter defined) and a NGO (as hereinafter defined);
(c)
“CBO” means a Community Based Organization operating under the Borrower’s 
laws, and meeting the criteria provided in the Project Operational Manual (as hereinafter 
defined);
(d)
“Community Subproject Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into 
between the DC (as hereinafter defined) and a Beneficiary, or between MWLD (as hereinafter 
defined) and a Beneficiary, as the case may be, for purposes of the implementation of a 
Subproject (as hereinafter defined), and referred to in paragraph 5 (h) of Schedule 4 to this 
Page  3
Agreement;
(e)
“DC” means the District Council established and operating in each Project 
District (as hereinafter defined) in accordance with the Borrower’s Local Government (District 
Authorities) Act No. 7 of 1982, as amended;
(f)
“District” means a district as defined in the Borrower’s Local Government 
(District Authorities) Act No. 7 of 1982, as amended;
(g)
“DWSF” means the District Water and Sanitation Fund, to be established in each 
Project District for the collection and management of funds to be utilized in the implementation 
of water and sanitation activities in such District, and referred to in Part A.1 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement;
(h)
“DWSP” means the District Water Supply and Sanitation Plan prepared  by each 
Project District, and updated annually, outlining the water and sanitation program for such 
District, and referred to in Part A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(i)
“DWST” means a District Water and Sanitation Team established by the DC in 
each Project District to plan and manage the District’s water and sanitation program, as defined 
in the DWSP;
(j)
“EMP” means the Environment Management Plan dated September 15, 2001, 
satisfactory to the Association, describing measures for mitigating the potential environmental 
impact of the Project, as the same may be updated from time to time with the agreement of the 
Association;
(k)
“FMR” means each Financial Monitoring Report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(l)
“Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Borrower to a 
Beneficiary, to finance a Subproject (as hereinafter defined);
(m)
“HIV” means the Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus;
(n)
“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health, referred to in paragraph 1 (a) 
(ii) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(o)
“MOU” means the Memorandum of Understanding to be entered into between 
the MWLD (as hereinafter defined) and the DC, and referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement;
Page  4
(p)
“MWLD” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Water and Livestock Development;
(q)
“NGO” means a Non-Governmental Organization established and operating 
under the Borrower’s Societies Ordinance, Chapter 337 of the laws of the Borrower;
(r)
“POM” means the Project Operational Manual setting out, inter
alia
,
the 
procurement, financial management and disbursement procedures, the institutional aspects,  work 
plans and other arrangements for the implementation of the Project, and referred to in paragraph 
1
(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes any schedules to the Project Operational Manual;
(s)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement;
(t)
“Project District” means each of the twelve (12) Districts selected to participate 
in the Project, with the approval of the Association, and in accordance with criteria defined in 
paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and Project Districts shall refer to such 
Districts, collectively; 
(u)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance granted by 
the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf of the 
Association on February 14, 2001, and on behalf of the Borrower on March 5, 2001; 
(v)
“Project Quarter” means the three-month period beginning from the Effective 
Date and ending three months thereafter (the First Project Quarter) and any three-month period 
beginning at the end of the First Project Quarter, or at the end of any subsequent Project Quarter; 
(w)
“RWSD” means the Rural Water Supply Division of MWLD;
(x)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(y)
“Selection of Additional Districts Report” means the report dated September 
2001, prepared by MWLD detailing the criteria for the selection process for Districts 
participating in the Project, and outlining the order of priority for the participation of such 
Districts, as amended from time to time with the approval of the Association, and referred to in 
paragraph 3 (a) (ii) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(z)
“Subproject” means a specific development project financed or to be financed 
through a Grant extended under Part B.1 of the Project;
(aa)
“Subproject Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between MWLD 
and DC on an annual basis, after the approval of Subprojects for the year, aggregating the 
Page  5
information on all Subprojects to be financed during the year, and referred to in paragraph 5 (f) 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(bb)
“TAC” means the Technical Advisory Committee established by the Borrower, 
consisting of representatives from MWLD, MOH, the Ministry of Regional  Administration and 
Local Government, NGOs, donors and private sector organizations, and referred to in paragraph 
1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(cc)
“Tanzania Shilling and Tshs” means the currency of the Borrower; and
(dd)
“WSS Committee” means a Water and Sanitation Committee established by a 
Beneficiary, where applicable, to plan and manage water and sanitation facilities on its behalf, 
with the required legal capacity under the laws of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to twenty million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
20,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or, if 
the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) 
amounts paid (or if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) under Part B.1 of the 
Project to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for a Subproject in 
respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in United 
States Dollars in a commercial bank a separate special deposit account, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the 
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date 
and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the 
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
Page  6
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15 and 
September 15 commencing September 15, 2012 and ending March 15, 2042. Each installment to 
and including the installment payable on March 15, 2022 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
Page  7
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of          the increase in the 
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant 
element obtained under the above-mentioned      repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through 
MWLD, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
Page  8
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
the Borrower shall, for the purposes of making available its counterpart contribution to the 
financing of the Project:
(a)
open and thereafter maintain, until the completion of  the Project, an account in 
Tanzanian Shillings in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association;
(b)
deposit into the Borrower’s Project Account an initial contribution of sixty 
million Tanzanian Shillings (Tshs 60,000,000);
(c)
thereafter replenish said account up to the initial amount of sixty million 
Tanzanian Shillings at the end of each Project Quarter until the completion of the Project, or 
whenever its balance shall be less than twenty million Tanzanian Shillings 
(Tshs 20,000,000); and
(d)
ensure that amounts deposited into the Borrower’s Project Account shall be used 
exclusively to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services for the Project in addition to those financed from 
the proceeds of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
Page  9
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements, records 
and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting obligations 
set out in paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to 
the Association a FMR in form and substance satisfactory to the Association which: 
(i)
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively, 
and for the 
period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the 
Credit, and explains variances between the 
actual and planned uses of such 
funds;
Page  10
(ii)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for 
the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual and 
planned Project 
implementation; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period 
covered by said report.
(b)
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar 
quarter; thereafter each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after 
each calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified, namely that a situation will have arisen which will make it 
improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of 
the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association a POM satisfactory, in form and 
substance, to the Association; 
(b)
the Borrower has appointed an accountant for the Project with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Association; 
(c)
the Borrower’s Project Account has been opened and the initial contribution 
referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement has been deposited therein; 
(d)
the Borrower shall have set up a FMR system acceptable to the Association; and
Page  11
(e)
the Borrower has entered into a MOU that is satisfactory to the Association with 
three of the Project Districts.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for Finance is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P. O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
Tanzania
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
TREASURY
41329
(255) 222 11 77 90
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
Page  12
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s/ Mustafa Nyang’anyi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Pamela Cox
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
for
Subprojects 
11,200,000
100% of amounts
financed under Part B.1
disbursed
Page  13
of the Project
(2)
Goods
2,300,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 90% of local 
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(3)
Consultants’
5,600,000
100%
services and Training
(4)
Incremental Operating Costs
400,000
90%
(5)
Refunding of
450,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c) of
Advance
this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
850,000
-
TOTAL
20,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the incremental operating costs 
incurred by the Borrower on account of Project implementation, management and supervision, 
including, office supplies, office rehabilitation, office equipment, and vehicle maintenance and 
operating costs, but excluding salaries of the Borrower’s civil servants.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for contracts for: (a) civil works not 
exceeding $300,000 equivalent each (other than the first two contracts of $50,000 equivalent or 
more each, for each Project District); (b) goods not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each (other 
Page  14
than the first two contracts procured under National Competitive Bidding procedures); (c) 
consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; (d) individual consultants not 
exceeding $50,000; (e) training; and (f) Incremental Operating Costs, under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in providing improved and 
sustainable water and sanitation services to rural communities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
:
Development of a District Implementation Model
1.
Strengthening the operational capacity of DWSTs in the Project Districts to prepare 
DWSPs, establish DWSFs, and select eligible Subprojects to be financed under the Project, 
through the provision of technical advisory services, training, and the acquisition of equipment.
2.
Strengthening the Project implementation capacity of DWSTs in the Project Districts, 
through the provision of technical advisory services and training on the POM, financial 
management and procurement planning.
3.
Provision of technical advisory services, training and workshops to create awareness in 
the Project Districts on hygienic practices, and HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation.
Part B
:
Subprojects
1.
Provision of Grants to Beneficiaries to finance: (a) the cost of civil works, training and 
technical advisory services for Subprojects in the Project Districts, including inter
alia
,
the 
construction or rehabilitation of open wells, small pipe systems, boreholes equipped with hand 
pumps, gravity schemes, electric power and solar pumps, spring tapping, transmission lines, 
distribution systems, reservoirs, latrines, sanitation facilities, small dams, water conservation 
measures, watershed management, small scale irrigation, solid waste management; and (b) the 
research and development costs for Subprojects developing innovative technologies in the areas 
of, inter
alia
,
water conservation, watershed management, small scale irrigation and solid waste 
management, such as rain water harvesting and solar pumps.
2.
Acquisition of hand pumps by the Borrower, and provision of support for the 
establishment of a network of three private sector zonal suppliers as outlets for the distribution of 
hand pumps, and spare parts, and the maintenance of existing facilities in the Project Districts.
Page  15
Part C
:
Development of the National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Program and 
Institutional Strengthening
1.
Assisting the Borrower in the development of a national rural water supply and 
sanitation strategy and national program, including inter
alia
:
(a)  carrying out broad based 
consultations on the Borrower’s national water policy; (b) an assessment of the demand for water 
and sanitation facilities, and the preparation of a long term investment plan; (c) formulation and 
implementation of a communication strategy for the dissemination of information on the 
proposed national rural water and sanitation program, including the use of the mass media, and 
the preparation and translation of brochures and training materials; (d) development of 
monitoring and evaluation tools and procedures, including a management information system; 
and (e) the development of a legal and institutional framework for the decentralization, 
communal management and ownership of rural water supply and sanitation schemes, through the 
provision of technical advisory services, workshops, study tours, and training.
2.
Strengthening the implementation capacity of Districts, MWLD staff, WSS Committees, 
Beneficiaries, NGOs, engineers, suppliers and contractors, through the provision of technical 
advisory services and training.
3.
Provision of training and equipment to selected local private sector firms to ensure 
continuous delivery of specialized technical services to the Beneficiaries.
4.
Strengthening the operational capacity of the Borrower to manage and evaluate the 
implementation of the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultant Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
Page  16
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by 
domestic contractors.
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Works estimated to cost more than $50,000 equivalent per contract, but less than 
$300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $13,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $750,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Procurement of Small Works
Works for Subprojects estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract up to an 
aggregate amount of $1,000,000 equivalent may be procured under lump-sum, fixed price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award 
shall be made to the contractor, who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work and 
Page  17
who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
3.
Direct Contracting
Works or goods which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, 
and costing $1,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
International /National Shopping and Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $750,000 equivalent may be procured on the basis of international/national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines, or procured from the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Organization of the United 
Nations, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) the first two contracts in each Project District estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more, and thereafter, each contract for civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $300,000 or more; and (b) the first two contracts for goods procured under 
National Competitive Bidding procedures in each Project District, and thereafter, each contract 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Page  18
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part 
A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list 
of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for the design and supervision of civil works in Subprojects under Part B.1 of 
the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, 
with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  19
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts in each Project District for consultants 
selected using Qualifications and Least Cost Selection methods; and (ii) all contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 
5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
(c)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) above, the terms of 
reference for the employment of all consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Page  20
Implementation Program
1.
Project Management
(a)
The Borrower shall: (i) carry out the day-to-day implementation of the Project 
through the RWSD, and shall ensure that staff with qualifications and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association are maintained throughout Project implementation; (ii) ensure that 
RWSD implements Part A.3 of the Project under the direction of MOH in accordance with the 
Borrower’s HIV/AIDS strategy; and (iii) maintain, throughout the Project implementation 
period, a TAC to act as a general oversight body with respect to Project implementation, and 
make recommendations for the review and dissemination of policies for the development of the 
Borrower’s national rural water and sanitation program.
(b)
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set forth 
in the POM and the EMP, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend 
or waive any provisions thereof if such amendment or waiver, may in the opinion of the 
Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
2.
Restructuring of RWSD
The Borrower shall prepare an action plan for the restructuring of RWSD by December 
31, 2003, and ensure such restructuring is completed by December 31, 2004.
3.
Selection of Project Districts and NGOs 
(a)
Project Districts
(i)
The Borrower shall select Project Districts for participation in the 
Project in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Association, as 
more fully specified in the POM, including, inter alia
,
that such district 
shall: (A) establish and maintain in each of the Project Districts, DWSTs 
throughout the Project implementation period; (B) allocate as part of its 
budget a recurrent allocation to the DWST; (C) prepare a DWSP; and 
(D) establish a DWSF in accordance with the applicable laws of the 
Borrower; and
(ii)
The Borrower shall ensure that a Project District that does not 
commence the implementation of activities under the Project within six 
months of the signing of the MOU is removed from the Project in 
accordance with the termination procedures set forth in such MOU, and 
replaced with the next qualifying District in the Selection of Additional 
Districts Report, subject to the approval of the Association.
Page  21
(b)
NGOs
In order to be eligible for the award of contracts under procedures referred to in Schedule 
3
to this Agreement, NGOs participating in the Project shall comply with the criteria specified in 
the POM, including: (i) proven experience in comparable community development activities in 
the territory of the Borrower and in participatory project design and implementation; (ii) proven 
technical expertise in their area of intervention; (iii) adequate financial and administrative 
capacity; and (iv) compliance with registration requirements under the laws of the Borrower.
4.
MOU
MWLD shall: (a) enter into a MOU with the DC in the remaining nine Project Districts 
by December 31, 2002, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association; and (b) 
promptly transfer funds to the DWSFs for the implementation of Subprojects under Part B.1 of 
the Project, in accordance with the annual work program prepared by each Project District, and 
ensure that each DWSF is audited annually by an external auditor acceptable to the Association.
5.
Procedures for the Preparation, Evaluation, Approval and Implementation of Subprojects
(a)
The selection of Subprojects shall be carried out on an annual basis, and 
potential Beneficiaries shall submit an application for a Grant for a proposed Subproject to the 
DC.
(b)
The DC shall request the DWST to carry out a thorough preliminary review of 
submitted applications in accordance with procedures set forth in the POM, including inter
alia
,
a
determination as to whether: (i) the proposed Beneficiary is a legal entity duly constituted under 
the laws of the Borrower; (ii) a WSS Committee is in existence; and (iii) a Bank account has 
been opened, and the potential Beneficiary has agreed to deposit a five (5) per cent cash 
contribution towards the cost of the proposed Subproject.
(c)
Potential Beneficiaries identified after the preliminary screening in subparagraph 
(b) above shall be entitled to technical advisory services to assist in the design of proposed 
Subprojects, and in the implementation of such Subprojects if approved by the DWST.
(d)
Selected Subprojects must satisfy the eligibility criteria set forth in the POM, 
including inter
alia
, the following:
(i)
that the Subproject is economically, financially and technically viable in 
accordance with standards set forth therein;
(ii)
that an environmental impact assessment has been carried out and an 
environment management plan prepared to mitigate against any potential 
risks to the environment;
Page  22
(iii)
that the Beneficiary has agreed to assume all the operation and 
maintenance costs with respect to the Subproject; and
(iv)
that the Subproject is in compliance with the standards set forth in the 
applicable laws of the Borrower relating to health, safety and 
environmental protection.
(e)
Following approval of Subprojects for the year by the DWST, the DC shall 
compile the list of Subprojects for the year, and prepare a consolidated budget request for 
submission to MWLD.
(f)
MWLD shall, after carrying out a thorough review of the proposed Subprojects 
and budget approve the proposed annual work program, and enter into a Subproject Agreement 
with the DC on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association on which basis the financing 
of the annual work program shall take place. 
(g)
The transfer of funds by the Borrower from the Special Account to the respective 
Project District’s account shall be done in accordance with the approved annual work program, 
as reflected in the Subproject Agreement, and in accordance with procedures set forth in the 
POM.
(h)
The DC may either contract on behalf of a Beneficiary, or enter into a 
Community Subproject Agreement with a Beneficiary if such Beneficiary has the capacity to 
contract under the laws of the Borrower.  For purposes of Part B.1 (ii)  of the Project, MWLD 
may enter into a Community Subproject Agreement with a Beneficiary  if the proposed 
Subproject falls outside the Project Districts.  The terms and conditions of the Community 
Subproject Agreement shall include the following:
(i)
financing shall be on a grant basis;
(ii)
the Beneficiary shall deposit its five (5%) cash contribution towards the 
Subproject cost in the account opened for this purpose under 
paragraph 5 (b) (iii) 
above;
(iii)
the Beneficiary shall carry out the Subproject with due diligence and 
efficiency, in accordance with the POM and sound technical, financial, 
environmental and managerial standards;
(iv)
the Beneficiary shall maintain adequate records reflecting the operations, 
resources and expenditures incurred under the Subproject in accordance 
with sound accounting practices acceptable to the Association, and 
submit such records to the DC to facilitate preparation of Project 
financial statements by MWLD;
(v)
the goods, works and services financed from the proceeds of the Credit 
shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in 
Page  23
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement, and used exclusively 
in the implementation of the Subproject;
(vi)
the right of the DC to inspect by itself, or jointly with MWLD and the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works and 
operations thereof, and any relevant records or documents; 
(vii)
the right to receive from the Beneficiary quarterly progress reports and a 
final report on the completion of the Subproject; and
(viii)
the right to suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of 
the proceeds of the Credit for the Subproject, upon failure by the 
Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under the Community 
Subproject Agreement.
(i)
The DC or MWLD shall be responsible for meeting, or causing to be met the 
terms and conditions set forth in paragraph 5 (h) above, where the DC or MWLD, as the case 
may be, contract on behalf of a Beneficiary.
(j)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 5 (h) above, the DC or MWLD, as 
the case may be, shall be responsible for the supervision of the implementation of all 
Subprojects, and shall ensure that any decisions made affecting the Subprojects shall be taken 
only after consultation with the affected Beneficiary(s).
6.
Technical Audits
The Borrower shall cause an independent technical audit to be carried out on an annual 
basis to monitor the implementation of the Project commencing on December 31, 2003, and 
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months 
thereafter, the report of such audit in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested.
7.
Midterm Review
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, on or about August 31, 2004, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
Page  24
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by September 30, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Association’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1, 2, 3 and 4 set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,500,000, to 
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $750,000, until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 4,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall 
Page  25
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall 
Page  26
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Monitoring Indicators
1.
Demand based district implementation model validated and operational in the Project 
Districts.
2.
Water supply and sanitation conditions improved for two hundred fifty (250) 
Beneficiaries in the Project Districts.
3.
Stakeholder agreement and endorsement of the Borrower’s national rural water and 
Page  27
sanitation program and strategy.
4.
Fully staffed DWSTs and complete DWSPs in the Project Districts.
5.
Fully operational audited and certified DWSFs in the Project Districts.
6.
Preparation and Implementation of  HIV/AIDS mitigation plans in the Project Districts.
7.
Two hundred fifty (250) Subprojects appraised.
8.
Two hundred fifty (250) Subprojects, financed from DWSFs and constructed for eligible 
Beneficiaries.
9.
A minimum of twenty seven (27) service providers (1 NGO and 1 design and 
construction consultant per Project District, and 3 zonal hand pump suppliers/maintenance 
agents).
10.
All Subprojects have undergone environmental screening.
11.
A minimum of thirty (30) innovative Subprojects commissioned.
12.
The Rural Water Supply and Sanitation component of the Borrower’s national water 
policy is updated, adopted by all stakeholders and widely disseminated.
13.
Coordinated strategy for multi-donor financing of the Borrower’s national rural water 
supply and sanitation program is developed and endorsed by stakeholders.
14.
50% of DWSTs in the Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF) Phase I districts are fully 
trained on the District Operational Manual (DOM).
15.
All new sector projects are formulated along MWLD policy and implementation 
guidelines.
16.
The completion of the restructuring of RWSD.
17.
Management Information System operational in Project Districts and MWLD.
Page  28
