Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19278-PNG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON THE FIRST PHASE
OF A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$25.26 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR A
SECOND GAZELLE RESTORATION PROJECT
October 1, 1999
Urban Development Sector Unit
Papua New Guinea and Pacific Island Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March, 1999)
Currency Unit = Kina
Kina 1.0 = US$ 0.37
US$ 1 = Kina 2.70
FISCAL YEAR
January 1st to December 31st
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB              Asian Development Bank
APL              Adaptable Program Loan
AusAID           Australian Bilateral Assistance
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CCRI             Cocoa and Copra Research Institute
DoPM             Department of Personnel Management
DOW              Department of Works
EATA             Executing Agency Tlust Account
ELCOM            PNG Electricity Commission
EMPs             Environmental Management Plans
ENBPA            East New Britain Provincial Administration
ERR              Economic Rate of Return
FRR              Financial Rate of Return
FY               Fiscal Year
GAAP             Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
GoPNG            Government of Papua New Guinea
GRA              Gazelle Restoration Authority
HDM III          Highways Design and Maintenance Model
ITRP             Irmnediate Term Restoration Program of GRA
LACI             Loan Administration Change Initiative
MoF              Ministry of Finance
MTRP             Medium Term Restoration Program of GRA
NARI             National Agricultural Research Institute
NBC              National Broadcasting Corporation
NGO              Non-Governmental Organization
NPV              Net Present Value
OCA              Office of Civil Aviation
OD/OP            Operational Directive/Operational Policy
OECF             Oversees Economic Cooperation Fund
O&M              Operations and Maintenance
GRA/PIU          GRA Project Implementation Unit
PNG              Papua New Guinea
UNDP             United Nations Development Program
VAT              Value-Added Tax
Vice President:         Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:       Klaus Rohland
Sector Director:        Keshav Vanna
Task Manager:           Stuart Whitehead



Papua New Guinea
Second Gazelle Restoration Project
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing
2. Project development objective
3. Key performance indicators
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
4. Program Description and performance triggers for subsequent loans
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
3. Benefits and target population
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic
2. Financial
3. Technical
4. Institutional
5. Social
6. Resettlement
7. Environmental assessment
8. Participatory approach
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
2. Critical risks



3. Possible controversial aspects
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions
2. Other
H. Readiness for Implementation
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary
Amnex 2.      Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.      Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary, or
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summnary
Annex 5.      Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or
Financial Summary
Anniex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.     Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.      Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.      Documents in Project File
Annex 9.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.     Country at a Glance
Annex 11.     Letter of Development Policy
Annex 12.     Relocation Strategy for Population from High-Risk Villages around Rabaul
Annex 13.     Generic Implementation Plan for Relocation Activities
Annex 14.     Consultation in Project Preparation
Annex 15      Environmental Summary
Photographs
Map: IBRD 30006



1
Papua New Guinea
Second Gazelle Restoration Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Papua New Guinea and Pacific Island Country Management Unit
Date: August 23, 1999                             Team Leader: Stuart Whitehead
Country Manager/Director: Klaus Rohland           Sector Manager/Director: Keshav Vanna
Project ID: PG-PO-54238                           Sector: Urban
Lending Instrument: APL                           Theme(s): Rehabilitation
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [X]  Yes   [   No
IBRD          Others      Total   Commitment    Closing
US$ m      %      US $m    US$ m           Date          Date
APL 1         25.3      64%       14.2       39.5       11/30/99       6/30/03     Independent State of
Loan/                                                                           Papua New Guinea
Credit
APL 2          15.0     51%       14.3       29.3       11/30/01       6/30/06     Independent State of
Loan/                                                                           Papua New Guinea
Credit
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan       [ ] Credit      [  Grant       E  Guarantee       [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 25.3
Proposed terms:    [3 To be defined        [] Multicurrency      [XI Single currency
[  Standard Variable   [X] Fixed              [] LIBOR-
based
Grace period (years):             3
Years to maturity:               15
Commitment fee:                  0.75%
Service charge:
Front-end fee on Bank loan:      1%
Government
IBRD                                                                     25.3              25.3
Other (specify)                                           3.1                               3.1
Total:                                                   14.2            25.3              39.5
Borrower: Independent State of Papua New Guinea
Guarantor:
Resonsible agency(ies): Gazelle Restoration Authority



2
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):l
Annual      3.6          8.6         11.4          1.6
Cumulative     3.6          12.3        23.6         25.3
Project implementation period: 3.5 years
Expected effectiveness date: November 30, 1999        Expected closing date: June 30, 2003
Implementing agency: Gazelle Restoration Authority
Contact person: John Painap, OBE, Project Manager
Address: P.O. Box 2177, Rabaul, ENB, Papua New Guinea
Tel: (675) 982 8768            Fax: (675) 982 8767            E-mail: GRAPIU@datec.comn.pg



3
A: Program and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose andprogram phasing (see Annex 1)
The overall development objective of the Second Gazelle Restoration Project, which is also the project's
global objective, is to support the Medium-Tern Restoration Program (MTRP) of the East New Britain
Provincial Administration (ENBPA). This program seeks to restore the social and economic well-being of the
East New Britain people that prevailed prior to the 1994 volcanic eruption, which devastated much of the then
provincial capital (Rabaul Town) and surrounding villages. Furthermore, the project aims to ensure
sustainability of outcomes and minirnize adverse impacts of future volcanic eruptions on lives, property and
livelihood.
2. Project development objectives (see Annex 1):
To achieve this goal, the MTRP is designed to:
*   upgrade existing facilities and transportation infrastructure to support a shift in the location of settlement
and economic activity towards lower risk areas centered on the new provincial capital at Kokopo;
e   consolidate relocation sites in safe zones for evacuation of displaced communities from devastated and
high risk areas; and
*   restore such infrastructure and services in Rabaul as are needed primarily to ensure the effective
operation of the port as a major economic facility for the Gazelle Peninsula and the Eastem Region of
Papua New Guinea.
3. Key performance indicators:
End of project indicators are shown as the benchmarks in the table below:
Medium Term                                   Phase I                                          Phase II
Restoration Program                        (stabilization)                                  (consolidation)
Years                                        1999-2002                                        2002-2005
Development Objective    completion of Phase I and institutional transition  normalization to longer-term development process
Key Program Outputs:
Benchmarks for subsequent *   completion of infrastructure and services and at  *   restoration of health and education services,
Adaptable Loan and Grant      least an 80 percent occupancy at all relocation sites  water supply and sanitation service to affected
Financing                *    100% completion of port-related protection works  population
in Rabaul and approval of revised zoning plan that  *   provision of non-project services (including
prohibits redevelopment in the devastated areas of  passenger transport, etc.) to resettled
Rabaul                                            communities
*   75 % completion of other infrastructure, utilities &   *   reduction in erosion of caldera and
social services under Phase I, including          sedimentation in Rabaul Port
Rabaul/Kokopo Road (except for Vulcan section)   *   full occupation at relocation sites that provide
*    formulation of spatial and economic strategy      sustainable livelihood for displaced families
framework and institutional plan for longer-term  *   Consolidation of private sector economic
development as well as plans for coastal zone     activities in new development areas
management and mitigation of coastal hazards in    *   Establishment of Kokopo as regional
East New Britain Province                         govemment center with major increase in
*    approval by ENBPA of detailed arrangements to     population
integrate GRA into the Provincial Govemment.  *   Implementation of longer-term development
planning reflecting economic, natural and
human resources in province
*   Full ENBPA funding of warranted O&M costs
on assets restored under ITRP and MTRP.



4
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 14906 Date of latest CAS discussion: August 29, 1995.
The last CAS, which was endorsed by the Bank's Board in August 1995, focused on restoring macro-
economic stability and growth, following the unprecedented financial crisis in 1994. This agenda remai:ns a
cornerstone of the new CAS. The project supports the new CAS objective to promote sustainable, broal-based
economic growth, to stem the worsening trends in social indicators and poverty and to improve living
standards by restoring delivery of basic public infrastructure and services in East New Britain followin,; a
catastrophic volcanic eruption.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Urban Growth. Although villages provide citizens with a good social foundation, they offer few amenities or
job opportunities and migration to larger towns and cities has accelerated in recent years. However, the
economic potential of these towns and cities and their ability to absorb population growth productively is
limited by the Government's policy of restraining urban growth, a policy which is failing and resulting ,n hligh
rates of urban unemployment and crime. Strengthening urban-rural linkages would likely represent a more
ap'propriate and effective strategy in lessening the migration pressure as people could improve their life ity le
without leaving the village. A positive policy towards urbanization could also contribute to overall ecor,nmic
growth.
Infrastructure Service Provision. For urban areas to increase their contribution to overall econornic
performance, infrastructure and utility systems and facilities must be modernized and expanded, even though
basic public services are significantly better in urban than in rural areas. For example, the 1990 census
indicated that only about half of urban households have piped water supply - fewer than 15 percent in lowv-
income communities. Similarly, only 60 percent of families had electricity - only 6 percent in low-incomne
neighborhoods. Improvements are needed in towns and villages, especially those that serve regional roles, as
well as in the major cities. Thus, a priority is to map the existing systems and reestablish processes and
procedures for planning provincial infrastructure development priorities now that services are again being
decentralized.
Institutional Framework for Service Delivery. During the self-government and early post-Independencib
period, public service provision was effective and expanding. Local communities participated in the plaiining,
provision and funding of local public services. National agencies helped set the direction and standards f r
these services, and provided technical support and coordination through extensive outreach programs at the
village level. However, during the past two decades, central government priorities, delivery mechanisms and
personnel policies have increasingly dominated the provision of essential services. District Developmenw
Councils and Community Organizations (both formal and informal) became marginalized until the receri
enactment of the New Organic Law reinforced their role and powers.
Financing arrangements for local infrastructure. Funding for local services declined sharply in the late
1980s and early 1990s with the share of the national budget transferred to provinces dropping frorn 30 tc 20
percent during the period. Worse yet, dwindling fiscal transfers have been accompanied by the atrophy c -local
revenues that vary considerably from province to province depending on the level of natural resource
extraction activity. Revenue sharing has increased to match expanding service responsibilities being
transferred under the decentralization policy, particularly to district level governments within provinces, ..us
the timeliness of established transfers has been affected by budgetary constraints in recent years. Moreovor,
the provincial sales tax, a major revenue source for many provinces, was abolished on July 1, 1999 on cr ation
of the Graduated Value Added Tax administered by the National Government. In short, provincial
governments are facing an increase in expenditure responsibilities with increasingly inadequate and uncevtain
revenue sources and many district governments do not have the implementation capacity for the increased
resources allocated to them.



5
Government strategy. There is broad agreement that the quality of local services must be improved, that scarce
resources must be deployed more productively by reducing administration and overhead costs and that this
requires radical reform of the centralized delivery systems. In the recently approved Medium-Term
Development Strategy, the Government of Papua New Guinea (GoPNG) calls for a stronger role for provincial
and district governments in the provision of public services including infrastructure, in line with the
decentralization policy under the New Organic law of 1995. National agencies would remain responsible for
sector planning, technical support, supervision and quality assurance functions. Government is also seeking to
expand the role of the private sector, particularly in providing infrastructure and utility services. The
Government is also in the process of assessing the adequacy of the new fiscal transfer arrangements from the
national to provincial level.
Whilst investment in upgrading and expanding infrastructure in a number of major towns are ad-hoc responses
to virtually crisis conditions, they reflect a growing awareness on the part of policy makers that adequate
infrastructure is necessary to: a) provide an adequate quality of life for urban families; and b) reduce operating
costs to the business sector and expand economic activity. As a result, the government has recently initiated,
with support from the Bank, AusAID and UNDP, a pilot program in local infrastructure planning.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Much of the physical, social and economic infrastructure and facilities in Rabaul Town and surrounding areas
was completely destroyed or severely damaged by the volcanic eruption in 1994 - causing enormous social
and economic dislocation for the third time in a little over 100 years. About 80,000 people were evacuated
from devastated areas, about 30,000 people in Rabaul Town and surrounding villages lost their homes and,
following repatriation of migrant workers, about 20,000 people sought permanent resettlement in other parts of
the Gazelle Peninsula. Losses in government facilities was estimated by AusAID shortly after the eruption at
about K250 million1 - equivalent to about K380-400 million (US$170-180 million) at 1998 prices - and a
similar amount for housing. Damage to commercial establishments and loss of inventory was also substantial.
Investment in restoration efforts to date amounts to about US$75 million equivalent, most of which has gone
to road works, health, education and public safety facilities and government agency staff housing, as well as
site development in new housing and resettlement areas.
The Rabaul Volcano last erupted (also at Mt. Tavurvur and Mt. Vulcan) during the period 1937 - 1944 causing
500 deaths. Following cessation of wartime hostilities in 1945, it was decided not to rebuild facilities in Rabaul
Town. However, in the absence of a clearly articulated policy at that time, residents and businesses gradually
moved back to occupy their land and property.
This time, and notwithstanding the historically pre-eminent role of Rabaul, GoPNG has made the difficult, but
prudent and far-sighted, strategic decision to relocate the hub of economic, social and government activity to
Kokopo. Kokopo has been designated as the new government center for the entire New Guinea Islands Region
of PNG comprising East and West New Britain, New Ireland, Bougainville and Manus. This move is intended
to minimize risk to life and further economic devastation from future volcanic activity in the area and reflects
locational decisions of the local businesses, most of which have relocated to Kokopo and the corridor to the
new Tokua airport.
Thus, only limited restoration of Rabaul Town will be supported under the project. This will include protection
works (such as slope stabilization in the hills surrounding the town) required to ensure the continued operation
of the port and restoration of utility services for the remaining population of about 5,000 - less than a fifth of
the pre-eruption population. This strategy is also supported by AusAID and the European Union, which are
financing project components. In addition, the overall Medium-Term Restoration Program (MTDP) for the
Gazelle Peninsula is being designed to maximize private sector financing for facilities such as the proposed
commercial center and the small-scale industrial estate at Kokopo.
I   This is likely to have been materially underestimated, probably by 30% or more.



6
As part of an emergency reconstruction effort to restore services, particularly to the substantial population
made homeless by the eruption, the project poses issues that differ in some respects from those relating to
mainstream urban sector development efforts. Even so, the project design is consistent with two basic tenets of
sustainable development in PNG. First, the project supports a settlement pattern that reflects urban/rural links
and recognizes the importance of a vibrant service economy in urban areas. Second, in moving frcm an
emergency reconstruction response to a more normalized development effort, the project seeks to increase
economic activity, which remains below pre-eruption levels, and to institute a sound basis for planning
development priorities for the longer-term. The project will be implemented with substantial involvement by
ENBPA and local level governments as well as consultation with communities affected. This is consistent with
the long-standing attention to effective delivery of services in East New Britain Province, reflected in
relatively high literacy rates and other social indicators. Indeed, and consistent with the Government's
objective to decentralize responsibility for local services, the program will be transferred, together with the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of the Gazelle Restoration Authority (GRA), to the ENBPA no later than
2002, at which time the GRA will be wound up.
4. Program Description and Performance Triggers for Subsequent Loans:
The overall objectives of the Government's MTRP to complete restoration of social and economic wellbe ing
to the people of the Gazelle Peninsula will be achieved through the agreed seven year program and will
include the following projects:
MTRP - Phase I (APL I): Phase I will concentrate on provision of land and services for displaced communities
in relocation sites away from high-risk areas; restoration of essential services to protect Rabaul Port; proniision
of essential infrastructure, administrative facilities and public services to establish the new provincial cap ital at
Kokopo; provision of essential infrastructure and services for the growing population throughout ihe Gazelle
Peninsula; and assistance to strengthen development planning and diversify the economy of the area and .o
protect coastal areas and mitigate coastal hazards. Public infrastructure and services include: roads, education,
health, electricity, water and environmental sanitation, public safety (including police and fire prol:ection)i,
women's services and outreach programs, public markets and business support facilities.
MTRP - Phase II (APL II): Phase II will complete provision of services under the MTRP and will includc
improvements to airport facilities (to support international flights), education, health, electricity, water and
environmental sanitation, public safety, sports facilities and business support. Most importantly, it will
implement the findings of the Economic and Spatial Development Strategy for the Province and consolidate
efforts to diversify the economic base of the province and of the coastal zone management and coaLstal ha; zards
mitigation plans.
Triggers for subsequent loans:
Bank financing for MTRP - Phase II (APL II) would be considered when:
a  100 percent of port-related protection works in Rabaul has been completed, provided that revised zor. ing
plan have been approved that prohibit redevelopment in the devastated areas of Rabaul;
*  75 percent of other infrastructure, utilities & social services under Phase I has been completed'
*  at least 80 percent occupancy at all relocation sites;
*  formulation of economic and spatial strategy and institutional plan for longer-term development as w( Il as
plans for coastal zone management and coastal hazards mitigation in East New Britain Provinc;e; and
*  ,approval of detailed arrangements to integrate GRA into ENGPA.
C: Program and Project Description Summary



7
1. Project Components: (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown)
1 (a). The PNG Gazelle Restoration Program (see also Annex 2.)
The Immediate-Term Restoration Program (ITRP) was initiated by the Government in early 1995, immediately
following the volcanic eruption. The ITRP, involving emergency reconstruction works, has been supported, to
date, by the Bank (K33.3 million); AusAID (K43 million); the European Union (K6.2 million); Japan (K43.5
million); Germany (K2.4 million) and ADB (0.7 million). The GRA was responsible for managing K58.7
million (40 percent) of total investments. For MTRP Phase I, AusAID will provide US$0.04 equivalent for a
study of ambient air quality and the effects of continued volcanic emissions on public health in Rabaul, the
European Union will provide about US$3 millions equivalent for provision of services to relocation sites for
the displaced population and ADB will provide US$0.15 equivalent for a new women's services headquarters
building in Kokopo.
The overall program will be implemented over a seven-year period from mid 1999 to mid 2005.
Implementation will be undertaken in two phases. The project is designed to help complete the emergency
restoration works started under the ITRP and to facilitate a return to more normalized development planning
by the Provincial Government. To this end, during MTRP Phase I (1999 to 2002), the primary focus will be to
complete the emergency restoration works, relocate displaced communities and provide services in and around
the newly designated provincial capital at Kokopo. This will include planning and designing longer-term
development priorities while establishing the institutional capacity required for their implementation. To this
end, a Regional Economic and Spatial Strategy will be formulated under the project that would inventory
economic, natural and human resources, review existing urban/rural economic linkages within the province
and the rest of the Eastem Region, and assess opportunities to diversify and strengthen the Province's
economic prospects. This study will also focus attention on management of the coastal zone in around Kokopo
and on ways to mitigate coastal hazards resulting from off-shore seismic activity. To help cushion the impact
of declining construction activity as the restoration program moves to completion, additional economic
opportunities, particularly in the production and service sectors, are also being studied during MTRP Phase I.
Reemergence of community-based mechanisms to deliver and maintain public services would be encouraged
as part of the implementation.
The second Phase (2002 to 2005) would focus on implementing these plans and consolidation of the
institutional framework for planning and executing urban/regional development priorities with the integration
of the GRA into ENBPA.
The Adaptable Program Loan is ideally suited to support this transition. Bank financing will be greater (64%)
during MTRP Phase I (1999-2002), reflecting the nature and phasing of activities and the availability and
timing of support from other donors including AusAID and the European union, in particular. At program
conclusion, major capital costs will be phased out as the province retums to a more stable expenditure regime
focusing on operations and maintenance and a more modest pace of public service expansion in line with
population growth.
MTRP - Phase I (consolidation of emergency reconstruction and institutional transition)
The Bank's support will:
a) help establish Kokopo as the provincial capital of East New Britain by providing essential urban
infrastructure, public safety and social services, a new government center and commercial
infrastructure to support the growing population and economic activity, and by reconstructing the key
road link to Rabaul Port;
b) provide essential protection works for Rabaul Port;
c) help implement the dispersed settlement strategy for the Gazelle Peninsula through construction of



8
key health and education facilities in townships and villages plus key transport links between them
and with the larger urban centers;
d)  formulate an economic and spatial development strategy plan for the longer-term development o:' East
New Britain Province including coastal zone management and coastal hazards mitigation plans as well
as mapping land resources in ENB;
e)  promote economic diversification and institution building for longer-term development planning in
East New Britain Province as well as transfer of management for the restoration program from thie
GRA to ENBPA; and
f)  help provide communications equipment and facilities to upgrade disaster relief capability.
Other donors support will:
a)  help establish sustainable livelihood for displaced communities by providing basic infrasbtucture,
including roads, electric power and water supply as well as education and health facilities in relo.:ation
sites for displaced communities; and
b)  help provide health, education and public safety facilities for the rural population of the Gazelle
Peninsula.
MTRP - Phase II (transition to longer-term development program)
Future Bank support will probably support:
a) upgrading of national and sealing provincial roads;
b) completion of electric power distribution and water supply improvements;
c) expansion of health and education facilities;
d) completion of the new regional govenmment center complex.
Expected support from other donors is uncertain at this time but may help:
a) provide cultural and sports facilities; and
1))  expand small business centers; and complete the new headquarters for the ENBPA and of a new
provincial assembly building.
a)  I (b) Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
- Ban
ndicative Costs       Fnancg    % of Bank
Component         Category  (UIJ$M 1/  % of Total  (US$M   Yna-King
lar.oving the Quality of Life for
DisplacedConunmities      Physical     3.03       8%       0.26        1%
Consolidation of Kokopo as Provincial
Capital                   Physical     19.28     490/o     12.44       500/o
RestorationofRabaulasRegionalPort Physical  4.45  11%      3.09        12%
Developnent of support infiashtnce
and sericesforNEzGaellePoninsula Physical  6.86   18%      4.97       20%
Economic Divecsificalion and Longer- Tecnmical
TermDevelopinuntPlaoning  Assistance   1.77       5%       1.71        7%/o
Technical
Design&Supervision        Assistance   3.81       10%      2.53       10%
Total Cost                             39.20     100%      25.00      100%
1/ excludces Front End Fee
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project support will:



9
*  increase regional government responsibility for planning and managing local development programs
through integration of the GRA, which is a national agency, into the ENBPA during implementation of
MTRP Phase I;
*  establish an Environmental Policy and Implementation Guidelines for land development in East New
Britain Province;
*  establish a Resettlement Policy to minimize the social and economic impacts on communities displaced by
future natural disasters;
*  implement a new policy to improve the financial viability of commercial services operated by, or on
behalf of ENBPA; and
*  establish an integrated, multi-sectoral approach to planning local infrastructure and public service
investments and formulate of a strategic framework for the longer-term development of the Gazelle
Peninsula and the province as a whole, based on comprehensive understanding of the economic and social
base of the region, resource constraints, urban/rural linkages, growth prospects and development
opportunities.
3. Benefits and target population:
The immediate benefits of the project would be to normalize basic infrastructure provision, utility and social
services to the population most directly affected by the volcanic eruption including, in particular, about 19,000
displaced inhabitants. For much of this group, the new relocation sites offer land-ownership with reasonable
access to growing livelihood opportunities in lower-risk areas of the Gazelle Peninsula. Restoring
infrastructure and facilities would also, amongst other things, ensure the continued operation of Rabaul Port
which is the transshipment operations center for the entire Eastern Region of PNG and represent a major factor
in the economy of the Gazelle Peninsula. Thus, the infrastructure and services provided under the project
would be a catalyst for economic growth in the region, which can be expected to help improve livelihood for
the whole community and the fiscal position of the Provincial Governnent thereby enabling it to expand
service provision and fulfill its commitment to restore a satisfactory quality of life to the citizenry. The shift
towards a framework to guide development priorities in the province should identify ways to strengthen the
planning process for infrastructure development generally and, thereby, reduce public sector costs for
delivering infrastructure and utility services. For the longer-term, relocating the locus of settlement and
business activity away from volcanic high-risk areas should minimize future economic and social disruption.
4. Insttutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutional Framework: The GRA will be the lead agency for the project. It will directly supervise
implementation of infrastructure works for roads, solid waste improvements; local markets; health, education
and public safety facilities and emergency services, government administration and commercial facilities.
GRA will also coordinate involvement by other responsible agencies under the project, including: power
(ELCOM); water supply (National WaterBoard) and communications (National Broadcasting Corporation).
Coordination between GRA and national level agencies including, in particular, the Department of Finance has
been facilitated under the ITRP by appointment of a liaison officer from the Office of National Planning and
Implementation. This liaison will continue.
GRA was established by Act of Parliament in 1995 when it became clear that a more decisive management
style was required to deal with the emergency than was possible through existing government agencies. The
GRA Board is chaired by former Central Bank Governor Sir Henry ToRobert KBE and comprises the
Secretary of the Department of Lands and Physical Planning; the Secretary of the Department of Works
(DOW); an Assistant Secretary of the Department of Treasury and Planning; an Assistant Director of the
Office of National Planning and Implementation; two Members of the Provincial Executive Council of the



10
East New Britain Provincial Government and a prominent member of the ENB community. This Board has
been very effective in establishing co-ordination between GRA and the ENBPA.
To ensure effective coordination of all agencies involved in the project, a Steering Committee made up of
representatives from the oversight agencies and from the collaborating/implementing agencies will be
established by Memorandum of Agreement prior to Loan effectiveness. The Steering Committee would lIe
chaired and supported by the GRA under the auspices of the NPIO, which is the GoPNG agency responsible
for national oversight of the Development Budget. The Steering Committee will meet quarterly to reviev.
MTRP progress reports collated from implementing agencies and to resolve any issues arising during pro ect
implementation. This mechanism would also facilitate gathering restoration information from independent
agencies that might otherwise not be readily available. Liaison officers in these agencies will be appointed, as
provided for in the Gazelle Restoration Act 1995 for this purpose, if necessary.
The special Supplies and Tenders Board that was established to expedite procurement matters will continue to
operate for the proposed project.
Project Management: The ITRP was shaped by the need to quickly address the distressed conditions of
displaced communities and to stimulate the depressed economy in the province. To this end, the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) of the GRA, which has authority to hire and fire staff, has been kept small witri a
primary focus on timely implementation of works. It currently includes an administrative staff that provides
corporate, administrative and financial support and an engineering staff that undertakes contract administration
and oversees/supervises engineering designs and works. Overall, GRA has a track record of effective
management under the ITRP and has secured the confidence of the National Government, the business
community and the population of the Gazelle Peninsula.
To ensure that the MTRP has a stronger analytical foundation, technical advisors will be mobilized, under the
project to train staff of the GRA/PIU and ENBPA in economic, environmental, social and financial aspects of
project formulation/evaluation and implementation management. The engineering function, which has
dominated investment decisions under the ITRP, will be more fully integrated into a multi-disciplinary, S.nior
Management Group and reinforced by separating small from large works. An Independent Quality Surveyor
will be retained and responsible for assessing the standard of the procurement process such as bidding
documentation, selection of contractors and the quality, cost and progress of their work; and would report
directly to the Project Manager. The position of Project Manager in the PIU, which was formerly staffed con a
rotational basis by senior ENBPA staff, has now been filled on a regular basis by the previous Secretary o,
Lands and Physical Planning in order to fulfil the need for a more stable and experienced management re irrie
under the MTRP.
Under the proposed project, the GRA/PIU will: a) maintain dialogue with the various stakeholder groups 1i)
ensure that consensus on the project's objectives and components is sustained; and b) carry out managerial,
technical and admninistrative tasks required to achieve implementation of the program in accordance with
agreed time schedules and budgets. As such, the GRA/PIU will: i) prepare financial forecasts and cashflow,V
estimrates; ii) manage project financial accounting and monitoring systems to report to govemmeift agencies,
the Bank and other donors on the physical and financial progress of the project and ensure that reperts and
project audits are submitted to the Government and the Bank on a timely basis; iii) advise on the selection )f
design and supervision consultants, prepare and issue bidding documents, assist in bid evaluation and
recommend contract awards; iv) ensure project proposals reflect economic, social and environmental aspe,;:ts
satisfactorily and that plans for mitigating possible negative environmental impacts are implemented in an
effective and timely way; and v) manage all administrative aspects of project supervision and monitoring
including critical review of contractor and consultant perfornance.
Projectfinancing: The financing plan is shown in Annex 5. The proposed Bank Loan of $25.26 million w :: uld
finance 64 percent of the total project financing requirements of $39.46 million (including the Front End Fee)
for the MTRP Phase I Project. Other donor financing is expected at $0.04 million equivalent from AusAID,
about $3.00 million equivalent from the European Union and $0.15 million equivalent from ADB, leaving



11
counterpart funding of $11.10 million to provided by the Government. Given the transitional nature of the
MTRP - moving from an emergency response to a more normalized development effort - ENBPA has been
called upon to contribute to the investment needs. National and provincial government counterpart funds
would be deposited in an Executing Agency Trust Account on a quarterly basis in advance. A Special Account
will be established with an initial advance of US$1.5 million for the proposed Bank Loan.
Proceeds of the Bank Loan and funds from other donors would be made available as grants. The project would
provide retroactive finance of $1.0 million for civil works expenditures from January 1999. This has been
reviewed as satisfactory, including the procurement arrangements involved. Agreement to these financing
arrangements was confirmed at negotiations.
Accounting, Reporting and Auditing: The present manual, cash-based project accounting and financial
management system relies on several independent records and considerable duplication of entries.
It is proposed to continue to disburse against Statements of Expenditures, as under the ITRP, rather than
against projected expenditures. However, annual project plans have been formulated and will be firmed up
prior to the start of each calendar year. Project accounting will follow GoGNP statutory requirements in
accordance with the Public Finance (Administration) Act of 1995, in line with Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles (GAAPs). To ensure that project accounting, financial reporting and auditing comply with standards
acceptable to the Bank (see Annex 6), the existing systems are to be computerized in order to establish a more
conventional chart of accounts and to integrate general ledger, procurement transactions, contract
management, cash forecasting and implementation monitoring and reporting. Vendors will be required to
certify that hardware and software to be installed are Y2K compliant.
Project Accounts, including Project Management Reports and Special Account reconciliation will be audited
by the Auditor General's Office in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. Copies of annual
financial statements, audited reports and project management reports will be furnished to the Bank within six
months of the end of the fiscal year to which they relate. The system for generating progress and financial
reports in suitable form has been agreed with the Bank and an agreed action plan has been defined (see Annex
6) to ensure that, by December 31, 2000, financial statements to be prepared by the GRAIPIU will include
project management reports of disbursement activities in accordance with requirements specified in the Bank's
"Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI)" dated September 1998.
Monitoring and Evaluation:
Bank supervision missions will monitor the achievement of agreed project indicators. A major review will be
undertaken during the second year of implementation to assess progress and readiness for the second Phase.
The composition of proposed investments will be refined in light of experience gained under the first Phase,
and the effectiveness of measures to consolidate the shift of economic activity and settlement to the areas in
and around Kokopo including, in particular, relocation of displaced communities. Bank supervision missions
and milestone review points will be undertaken jointly with other donors.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
In framing the strategy for the MTRP, a number of options have been considered. Option C reflects the agreed
strategy adopted by GRA, ENBPA and GoPNG:
Option A: Reconstruction of Rabaul Town to pre-eruption levels. About 5,000 people have returned to the less
damaged areas of Rabaul, about one fifth the pre-eruption population and there has been political pressure to
restore much of the town and, thereby, the electoral constituency. However, redevelopment of Rabaul to
support the pre-eruption population was rejected on the basis of the inherent threat of future volcanic activity
in the area and the unhealthful environment caused by continued venting of ash from Mt. Tavurvur. Similarly,
many proposals for road, air and sea escape routes have been rejected since they would tend to encourage



12
families to return to high risk areas and, at the same time, would impose a high "insurance premiu3m" on thlis
development option, particularly if necessary maintenance costs are taken into account.
Option B: Comprehensive program for entire province. The MTRP originally proposed included components,
particularly in the town planning and road and sea transport sectors, which related to relatively small urban
centers well outside the Gazelle Peninsula in order to distribute the benefits as widely as possible. Whilst
attention to these areas should be included in a balanced longer-term development strategy for the province, a
number of the key interventions identified had not been subjected to rigorous economic and feasibility
analysis, and are probably premature. Moreover, ENBPA is concerned about ensuring that MTRP Phase [ is
scaled at a manageable level in relation to funds likely to be available for operation and maintenance of
facilities and services provided. It has, therefore, concluded that restoring services and economic growth  i he
Gazelle Peninsula, which includes about 80 percent of the population of the province, remains the most
pressing medium-term development priority.
Option C: a dispersed settlement strategy for the Gazelle Peninsula centered on the emerging Kokopo-Tokua
Aiport corridor. Such is the attachment by the people to their land that many older residents have returned tD
their traditional villages, despite the inherent danger of further volcanic activity. The government has
discouraged this, but is understandably unwilling to prohibit this personal choice. Younger people, more I: kely
to participate in the modem economy, appear to be moving permanently to the relocation sites, particularl'I
those that provide easy access to the growing urban economy around Kokopo. Kinship links will enable o der
residents to seek shelter in these relocation sites in the event of further damage to their homes in traditional
villages. The Village Development Fund, established under the project to address the needs of host
communities (including ethnic minorities) in the vicinity of the relocation sites, could also provide selectiv, e
assistance to communities in other parts of the Province.
Whilst some business activity has resumed in Rabaul, it Kokopo and the corridor to the new airportl at Tokua
that has attracted the bulk of private sector investment including a new small-scale industrial estate,
wholesaling/retailing and housing. Increasing occupation of relocation sites is reinforcing this trend and
selection of Kokopo as the regional center for national and provincial government services will confirm tk-
Government's support for this strategy.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies fcompleted, ojngoing an:d
planned):
There are no ongoing Bank-financed projects focused exclusively on East New Britain. The Population arnd
Famnily Planning Project includes East New Britain as one of several provinces. Similarly, the proposed Rcad
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project seeks to improve maintenance of national and provincial roads in last
New Britain together with five other provinces. The ITRP was supported by the Bank (under ITRPi and oi.aer
donors as indicated below:
Sector issue                       Project                  Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation Progress   Developmr.ent Obje -ti{e
(IP)                   (DO)
Bank-financed
Road maintenance                     Proposed Road Maintenance
and Rehabilitation Project
ITRP:                                  S                       S
funding reallocated from: Land  Implementation of ITRP is   Satisfactory, thoug tle
Mobilization Project (Ln.PG-    considered satisfactory. The  sustainability of the:
3051); Public Sector training  high-quality management    strategy to relocate
Project (Ln. PG-3290);      mobilized team in the PIU    businesses and
Education Development Project  and the excellent     residential settleme its
(Ln. PG-3537); and 3rd      cooperation between the   away from the high risk



13
Telecommunications Project    GRA and ENBPA is a    areas will depend on
(Ln. PG-3 154).            model for other non-     continued support under
emergency infrastructure    the Second Gazelle
development projects in  Restoration Project.
PNG
Other development agencies
ITRP:
*   roads restoration and upgrading;  *   AusAID and Gernany
buildings including police, community
schools, high schools, business and
vocational schools; and fumiture
materials, and equipment to support
these facilities.
*   Tokua Airport                    *   OECF
*   Rural education and housing      *   European Union
*   TA                               *   ADB
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons learned from the ITRP include:
*   The need for project planning to be grounded in an understanding of the socio-economic context and
population dynamics.
*   The need for greater stakeholder consultation and participation involving different constituencies
including the business community, the population from high-risk villages targeted for voluntary
relocation, and the host population at the relocation sites. In addition, care is required in assessing the
location and characteristics of relocation sites to support sustainable livelihood.
*   The need for a broader skill base in the GRA/PIU including, in particular, in economic, financial, urban
planning, social and environmental analysis to ensure a robust justification for future development
proposals.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government has confirmed, including through recent announcements in the local media, its support for
the development strategy that limits redevelopment of Rabaul Town. The ENBPA has also implemented an
extensive consultation process over program objectives and composition with community governments
throughout the area as well as with specific displaced communities and host populations at relocation sites, the
business community, government agencies and NGOs. These consultations have helped to ensure broad-based
support in civil society for the program. In addition, the East New Britain Provincial Assembly has adopted
three major policies including: an Environmental Management Policy for which Implementation Guidelines
are now being prepared; a Resettlement policy to minimize social and economic disruption to families
displaced by future natural disasters; and a policy for full cost recovery for commercial activities operated by
the province. ENBPA is also proposing to modify prevailing land tax rates to discourage speculative holding
of idle land in and around Kokopo. Both the last and the present National Governments endorsed the project
prior to negotiations and recruitment has already been initiated for the additional skills required in the
GRA/PIU.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank played an instrumental role in establishing the GRA, which is widely recognized in PNG as,
perhaps, the most effective project management team. The Bank has maintained a very close relationship with
GRA during implementation of the successful ITRP. As a result, Bank support is being sought to help position
the GRA and ENBPA for the transition from the emergency reconstruction phase to a longer-term
development effort, and to integrate the MTRP more fully into ENBPA. Already, and at the Bank's urging, a



14
more rigorous analytical approach has been used to formulate investment priorities and activities in the NMTRP
through use of economic analysis. Bank assistance in defining a practical consultation process has helpecl
ensure widespread support for, and sustained benefits from the program. Moreover, Bank support for MTRP
has been instrumental in encouraging other donors, particularly AusAID and the European Union to prov de
continued support. The Bank's intervention at this time will help to sustain necessary construction activit"r and,
thereby, avoid a disruptive decline in the province's economy.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[ X] Cost-Benefit Analysis -- Rabaul-Kokopo Road (Phase 1): NPV=US$ 6.14 million; ERR= 20.1%; [X ]
Cost Effectiveness Analysis: least cost restoration of social services with demonstrable demand at provincial
standards.
[ ] Other: adequate cost recovery of economic services
For major sub-component investments, and specifically two road rehabilitations, comprehensive cost benr:fil:
analyses have been undertaken. Other components are not readily amenable to full cost benefit analysis. For
these, for example, health and education facilities, which largely involve restoration of essential services
destroyed by the eruption, assessment is based on a least-cost approach to satisfying demonstrable demand at
warranted service standards. These approaches to gauge efficient component design are in keeping with best
practice for emergency-type projects.
The Diverse Nature of the Project's Benefits and Costs: Sustainable restoration for the spatially clispersed
rural and urban areas of the N.E. Gazelle Peninsula, including the management of risks to life and property
from future volcanic eruptions, is the overall project objective. An important dimension of this objective is to
improve the quality of life for the communities displaced by the eruption. Meeting this objective calls for the
diverse set of investmnent components proposed. As a result, the direct general economic benefits that will arise
are equally diverse and may be grouped into four types: (i) general welfare improvements; (ii) community
relocation sites; (iii) infrastructure and social services; and (iv) commercially-based services. It is not practical
to undertake complete quantitative cost benefit analyses of all these types, primarily because some of the
benefits are registered at an aggregate spatial level. For example, at the center of the Provincial Governme: t s
regional spatial growth strategy is the consolidation of Kokojpo as the provincial capital and the new loct,s of
economic activity. This provides benefits to a much wider population of the Gazelle Peninsula, esp ecially with
improved safety, through the relocation of the dominant urban growth center away from exposure to the high-
risk of future volcanic activity at Rabaul to the relatively low-risk area of Kokopo and its surrounding
hinterland, which also includes new townships. This reorientation of spatial growth and restoration, togethi -r
with the associated urban and regional planning framework, is also expected to work hand in hand with
enhancing the environment for attracting additional business i:nvestment to the region. Such private sector
investment, together with the diverse range of individual components within the MTRP, can be expected t
help position the Peninsula and the Province to establish an effective regional economic development strategy.
The successful implementation of this strategy poses a major challenge for all stakeholders in the region.
However, these stakeholders have demonstrated their commitment to the development of the region..
Moreover, the potential benefits and importance of such a strategy are substantial; it is vital to sustain the [low
of general economic benefits (especially employment and income) as the public sector expenditure injectiors
from the project and the MTRP (estimated at K170 million over 6 years) are phased out.
Spec i/c direct benefits: Investments in transport infrastructure (roads and port related facilities) will lower Life-
cycle infrastructure costs and decrease vehicle and port operating costs. These savings can be expected to a e
passed on to consumers and businesses, since the market structure for road services is reasonably competitive
and port charges are subject to government regulation. Accordingly, these transport benefits can be expect. d to
lower the delivered costs of imports and exports for the region, strengthen its competitiveness, and increase
local incomes.



15
Investments in most other economic infrastructure (water, electricity) which are largely commercially driven,
will restore availability and improve service quality. Social infrastructure (primarily health clinics and
schools), while primarily oriented to provide the benefits of these services to villages in relocation areas and
expanding townships, will also benefit local host populations.
Social services to be provided under the project, and in particular, schools and health centers, will be assessed
on a programmatic basis. The assessment will consist of broad screening to ensure facilities are consistent
with education and health care standards in East New Britain (for example, for schools, standard buildings and
catchment population areas based on access and class size norms, taking into account spare capacity at viable
altematives). At the same time, support for the restoration of physical facilities (for example, high schools and
technical colleges) will also require training programs are designed to better meet the market demand for
graduates. In connection with the provision of social services, there is a strong tradition in East New Britain of
the Provincial Government giving high priority to these services; prior to the eruption, the Province ranked
third in the country on social indicators; for example, the adult literacy rate was 73% compared to the national
average of 49%. Mortality, morbidity, and infant mortality rates were all better than most other provinces. The
ENB Provincial Government is committed to restore and maintain facilities to ensure continuation of the
benefits flowing from its high standards of excellence.
Improvements to existing relocation areas are proposed in MTRP Phase I. These include augmentation of
plot sizes, site improvements in passability of internal roads, electricity, water supply and sanitation, which
yield benefits that improve basic quality of life, including increased cash crops, all weather access, and
improved health and increased employment opportunities. Overall, this should raise livelihood at relocation
sites to an acceptable and sustainable level. However, this is judged to be problematic for one of the existing
relocation sites and, for the relatively small populations of displaced villages that are still residing in temporary
care centers, a small number of new potential relocation sites will be also assessed. Potential sites will be
screened to ensure that they satisfy key sustainable livelihood criteria including location/access to income
opportunities and services; plot size and assessed crop yield; and cultural considerations.
Modest assistance in the process of formulating a regional economic and spatial development strategy, based
upon partnership with the private sector, will be provided in MTRP Phase I. This support will be combined
with support to examine the potential for diversifying the regional export base. For example, in the agricultural
and natural resources sectors, the prospects and needs for commercial development of new specialty crops
(such as vanilla), floriculture and fishery will be assessed in collaboration with the private sector. The expected
benefits of these initiatives are improvements in the scope for increasing private sector investment,
employment, and income in the region, and a "smoothing", with minimum local income reduction, of the
transition to the period following completion of expenditures under the project.
Economic Analysis of Major Components:
Rabaul-Kokopo Road Link: A comprehensive cost benefit analysis has been carried out for the largest
proposed infrastructure investment component within the project which is the restoration and rehabilitation of
the 25 km. national highway linking the port at Rabaul to Kokopo. This road link is the single most important
road in the Province and is vital to the economic base of the region, the continued viability of the port, and the
development of Kokopo as the provincial capital and primary urban growth center and its hinterland (where
the relocation sites for the population displaced by the eruption are located). Current traffic levels on this road
are in the range 4900 - 2300 vehicles per day, depending on the section. This road link includes a 4 km.
section that is adjacent to a volcanic vent (Vulcan) and was totally destroyed during the eruption; a temporary
road over deep deposits of unstable volcanic pumice ash is currently used. Full reconstruction of this Vulcan
Section would require substantial drainage structures. However, ground conditions (especially water courses)
remain unstable and reconstruction will be deferred until monitoring verifies that a threshold level of stability
has been achieved. Until that time, the Vulcan Section will be provided with extended routine maintenance
(including grading to ensure passability). Rehabilitation of the other two sections of this road (21 km in total)
is included in MTRP Phase I (at an estimated capital cost of US$7.6 million or one fifth of the total MTRP



16
Phase I Project cost). The estimated ERR of this work is 20.1 percent and the net present value (as of the y ear
1999, and in that year's prices) is US$6.14 million, measured against the base altemative of routine and
rudimentary periodic maintenance. Benefits to users alone, in terms of reduced vehicle operating costs, which
would be achieved over the treated sections, are estimated at US$13.6 million (present value), or in annual
terms, increasing from US$0.87 million in the first year following rehabilitation. This stands in contrast to the
routine and periodic maintenance costs of the restored road, which amount to US$0.81 million (present va:ue).
For heavy vehicles, the vehicle operating cost savings in the first year are estimated to be US$3.60 per vehicle
trip; for cars/pick-ups the savings are US$0.70 per vehicle trip. The realization of positive net benefits for
these sections is rather insensitive to changes in the initial capital cost and traffic growth rate. Only in the
highly unlikely event that the construction cost increased to US$13.8 million or above, i.e., an increase of 31
percent or more, will the NPV fall below zero. Moreover, even if the (MTRP) traffic growth falls fiom 3% p.a.
to zero, the NPV remains positive (US$ 1.12 million) for these two sections; moreover, this result holds un(der
the conservative assumptions of no generated traffic and no time savings. On the assumption that
reconstruction of the Vulcan Section is justified five years after commencement of the two other sections, the
associated rate of retum is estimated at 22 percent and the net present value at US$5.9 million (as of the date
of commencement).
Warangoi Bridge - Baliora Road: This existing national road links the township of Warangoi with its large
care center and the Sigute community relocation site to the local network and, in particular, to Kokopo. The
road serves an important role in supporting viable relocation sites for displaced communities, as we'll as in
serving a substantial existing population in the hinterland around Kokopo. Given the reasonably competitilve
structure of road services ( PMVs, carriers ) the benefits of road improvements can be expected to be largely
passed on to the users. In addition, the road provides the only access to the Warangoi Hydro Plant - a key
facility for the regional electric power grid. Average vehicle traffic on the road is over 1 000 vehicles per day,
but thie current sealed pavement condition varies from good to very poor. A full range of rehabilitation
altematives, including separate treatment for sections, has been subjected to cost benefit analysis using HD.q.
III. On the basis of this analysis, the best rehabilitation strategy at this stage, given the variable pavement
condition, is to undertake the rehabilitation in two steps: reseal one section (near Warangoi Bridge) in Phas  I,
which has an estimated ERR of 140 percent, and defer the full resealing of two other sections until P'hase 2
(but with edge repair, full patching and routine maintenance in the interim) which have estimated ERRs of 20
and 29 percent for commnencement in 2005. However, the rate of deterioration of these two sections may be
faster than expected. Therefore, road conditions will be monitored from the commencement of Phase 1 and, if
warranted by their roughness index and economies of combined treatment, their resealing will also be
undertaken in Phase 1.
2. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV= Not applicable;FRR = Not applicable
The financing plan calls for a counterpart contribution of K30.0 million from the National Government and
ENBPA over the five-year program implementation period. ENBPA's contribution will be financed from
transfers of the VAT introduced on July 1, 1999. Investments in utility services will be funded as loans to
responsible agencies and recovered through service tariffs. The cost of subdivisions developed will be
recovered directly through lot sales. The cost of roads and health and education facilities as well as emerge]ncy
police and fire protection services will be recovered indirectly through national and local taxes, etc. No costls
will be recovered from displaced families for plots in relocation. sites. However, families that do not take up
full timae residence at relocation sites will forfeit plots allocated to them. No cost recovery will be sought for
sports facilities. However, as in the past, designated sports associations will be responsible for O&M, whicl.
will be recovered through gate fees.
Incremental Costs:
The various components of the project have implications for their associated O&M costs, the financing of
these costs, and hence the sustainability of the components. For commercially orientedfacilities (such as



17
markets and business centers), business plans to demonstrate their self-financing will be a condition for their
adoption. Business plans have already been drawn-up for the provincial port facilities (at Ah Tam and
Dawapia) and the water supply at Baliora and will be done also for the housing at Baloira and Kenebot to
justify the investment in services. For non-commercial services in education and health, fiscal support to the
ENB Province from the National Govermment, together with basic fees and parent/user contributions, can be
expected to continue to meet minimum requirements, especially given the strong traditional emphasis on these
sectors. For port-related components, commercialization and full recovery of O&M costs through user charges
is viable. For the main wharf area (under the National Harbors Board), the responsibility for future
maintenance of adjacent silt traps has been accepted by the Harbors Board. This was confirmed during
negotiations. For the provincial wharves, a commercially-based management contract has been introduced
(Further details are given in Annex 5.)
Fiscal impact:
The principal financial issue, and a key determinant of the sustainability of project benefits relates to the
manageability of incremental costs for operating and maintaining infrastructure networks and facilities being
restored, particularly for ENBPA, which will take over most of these works on completion. Annual
maintenance resulting from infrastructure created under the MTRP, which will fall to be bome by ENBPA, is
estimated at about K.4 millions within 4 to 5 years. This would represent less than 6 percent of the total FY
1999 provincial budget including national Infrastructure Development Grants under the New Organic Law and
the Value Added Tax (VAT) and is considered manageable.
Economic and Financial Sustainability
Sustainability of improvements on national roads presents a project risk. The level of funding allocated to
national roads in recent years has been far below warranted levels. This accounts for the extremely serious
deterioration of the major national roads in the North-East Gazelle region: in particular, the major Rabaul-
Kokopo-Tokua road and the Warangoi-Baliora road. As a result, very substantial economic costs are being
imposed on the region. Moreover, the project is predicated on regional growth being centered on Kokopo and
its hinterland, the viability of which is absolutely dependent upon a reliable efficient road link to Rabaul Port
and to the new airport at Tokua. Accordingly, altemative sustainable national road maintenance arrangements
for the national roads improved under the project are essential. Confirmation was received during negotiations
that a Memorandum of Understanding will be drawn up to formalize the transfer of responsibility, together
with required funding, for maintenance of the kokopo-Rabaul Road from DOW to ENBPA starting January 1,
2000.
3. Technical:
The principal technical issue raised by the project relates to the nature and timing of restoration works to the
Vulcan section of the Rabaul/Kokopo Road. Economic and engineering analysis relating to the stability of
ground conditions as well as possible changes in drainage flows from the caldera during heavy rainfall indicate
that restoration of this section should be deferred until results show that investment would be appropriate. The
highly permeable ground conditions comprising pumice over much of the NE Gazelle Peninsula also require
that special care be taken in water supply and sanitation to avoid polluting groundwater sources.
4. Institutional:
The project will support a transition towards integration of GRA's program into ENBPA's operations. To
this end, the ENBPA leadership has had a prominent role in shaping the MTRP and the program will be
fully integrated into ENIBPA by the end of MTRP Phase I. The intention is to ensure that the project
apparatus is fully functioning and that transfer arrangements are properly established to take up the
implementation workload without faltering. Thus, the transfer will take place when a number of target



18
objectives have been accomplished including that: the socio-economic, environmental and economic
appraisal processes for design and monitoring of project components are fully functional following any
necessary administrative changes; 65% of all contracts under MTRP Phase I have been let; all count;>rpart
funding due from the GoPNG and ENBPA up to the transfer date of the project has been made available;
and all permanent technical staffing positions have been approved by the National Department of
Personnel Management (DoPM).
a. Executing agencies: The project will be implemented by GRA, with support assistance from ENBPA, 'he
Rabaul and Kokopo District and Local Level Governments (LLG), PNG Electricity Conmnission (ELCOM/I),
the National Water Board, PNG Harbors Board, Cocoa and Coconut Research Institute (CCRI), and the
National Agricultural Research Institute (NARI).
b. Project management: In the emergency conditions immediately following the eruption, the engineering
orientation of the GRA/PIU was appropriate and effective in getting critical reconstruction works tmderway.
However, GRA must now shift from this "reactive" approach to equip itself with the broader range of skills
required not only to consolidate the achievements made to date but also to plan and oversee the medium-term
development effort for the region. Thus, AusAID has agreed, in principal, to fund advisors for an eighteen
month-to-two year period to build a stronger skills base in GRA and ENBPA in urban/regional planning,
economic evaluation and financial, environmental and social analysis.
5. Social:
The socio-economic impact of GRA's relocation and rehabililation activities during GRP 1 has been broadly
assessed with particular emphasis on the restoration of sustainable livelihood for the displaced communities
(Annex 12). The total population targeted for voluntary relocation is estimated to be around 19,000 personis
consisting almost exclusively of Tolai, the largest ethnic group in the Gazelle Peninsula. Although the Bark's
Policy on Involuntary Resettlement O.D. 4.30. does not apply because resettlement under the Project is
necessitated by a natural disaster, options being provided to displaced communities are consistent with the
Bank's policies.
The preliminary baseline survey of this population conducted in July 1998 indicated that 53% of the target
population were residing in the four established relocation sites, 36% were back in their villages of origin, and
the balance was either in unofficial 'care centers', temporarily residing with relatives in neighboring villages.,
or had resettled somewhere else at their own initiative. There has been a 25% overall increase in the number of
families in the relocation sites over the past year, mainly from 'no-retum' villages exposed to heavy or
unrecoverable damage which prevents the return of the population in the medium-to-longer term. By contr st:,
the population seems hardly to have changed in villages where damage inflicted by the eruption was relati ' ely
limited.
When the relocation sites were acquired in the aftermath of the 1994 eruptions, considerations determining the
acquisition of the sites were immediate availability and price. Locational advantages relating to livelihood
options or matching these options with the pre-eruption pursuits of villagers targeted for relocation to specific
sites was not adequately taken into account. In addition, the plot sizes assigned per family varied significan tly
from 0.2 to 3.0 ha between relocation sites. As a result, population movements for individual relocation sit zs
differ significantly depending on whether the target population has the option to return to the villages of ori gin,
and whether the sites assigned are perceived to provide viable livelihood opportunities and adequate securily.
This raises an equity issue, due to the different livelihood opportunities afforded by different relocation sites,
and to differences between the population from the 'possible retum' villages for whom the land in the
relocation site is an added asset, and those from the 'no-return' villages for whom this is the primary or sol
basis for livelihood restoration.
Major issues faced by the project at the end of GRP 1 include:



19
*  uncertainty regarding the number of people involved, the population dynamics and impacts deriving
from the relocation process;
*  the need to provide additional land along with the required infrastructure and services to enable the
permanently displaced population to establish sustainable livelihood;
*  the need for fuller considerations of both sustainable livelihood and social costs in the selection of
additional areas to be acquired and serviced for the relocation program; and
*  the need to establish appropriate consultation arrangements with the target group regarding site plans
and infrastructure needs, and with both the target group and 'host' community regarding provision of
social services.
Each of these issues will be addressed by the project strategy as follows:
a) A more comprehensive baseline census will be undertaken to update population dynamics, the distribution
of people between the relocation sites and villages of origin, and to assess existing livelihood skills and
options for restoration. The census will provide the basis for subsequent impact monitoring.
b) During MTRP Phase I, priority will be given to providing relocation sites with sustainable livelihood to
families from 'no-return' villages as well as to families still living in unofficial 'care centers'. This may
involve access to additional land for subsistence and cash crop agriculture together with services to be
shared with the 'host' community.
c) During MTRP Phase I, allocation of family blocks in all retained GRP 1 relocation sites will be completed
(Gelagela, Sigute, Clifton).
d) During MTRP Phase I, assistance may be provided to families in relocation sites or sections of sites that
are at present only marginally occupied by people from 'possible return' villages. The composition and
scale of assistance, if any, will depend on an assessment, established through quarterly monitoring, of the
scale of permanent settlement by families from these villages.
e) Selection of land to be acquired to promote the activity described under (b) will be based on an assessment
of the scope for sustainable livelihood, as well as the social costs involved.
f) Consultation with displaced communities on the relocation site land use plan and (including with
neighboring communities) on provision of social services.
Establishment of sustainable livelihood for the displaced population will be a trigger point for advancing from
beyong MTRP Phase I. Key indicators for this will be: a) sufficient land for sustainable livelihood allocated to
all permanently displaced families; and b) incomes above the poverty line for 80% of the displaced population.
Indigenous peoples: The population targeted for relocation from the high-risk villages around Rabaul to the
relocation sites are ethnic Tolai, as are most of the host conmmunities neighboring the relocation sites, with the
exception of Baining at the Sigute site, and Sulka at the Warena Site. The direct project beneficiaries are
indigenous people, and in accordance with para. 13 of the OD 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples, the objectives of
the OD are addressed by the project itself. Thus, during GRP 2(A), both the population targeted for relocation
and the host communities will be involved in ongoing consultation to ensure that their needs and concerns are
taken into account and adequately addressed in project design and implementation, especially with regard to
provision of shared social services (see Annex 12 for details). No negative impacts on indigenous
groups/ethnic minorities are envisaged. Confirmation was received during negotiations that, in the unlikely
event that such impacts are identified, they will be mitigated as covenanted in Schedule 1, para. 3 of the
Project Agreement.
Gender: Both women and men from displaced villages will benefit from the shift to new settlement locations.
Under the project, community development activities will be undertaken which target women. The ENB



20
Council of Women will be fumished with facilities in Kokopo, Rabaul and Kerevat for activities to promcote
women's organizations, community development, health and hygiene, income generation and sma:ll credit
schemes.
The Tolai live in a matrilineal social system, which shows signs of transformation towards a patrilineal sy item.
If leases to plots in relocation sites are granted to men, the shift to the new locations is likely to weaken tI.-,
importance of matrilineal ties. The project will therefore ensure that leases to family plots in the relocatior.
sites provide equal rights to both wife and husband.
6. Resettlement::
Relocation sites: During the MTRP Phase I, about 1,000 families from 'no-return' villages around Rabau:l will
be provided with access to land, either in new sites or as supplements to plots already allocated to them in
existing relocation sites. This includes approximately 210 families from the villages around Mt. Vulcan, Va ho
will be provided with land in new relocation sites or in the vicinity of the 'care centers' where they are
currently residing. There are also about 845 families residing in the Gelagela relocation site who require
additional land to sustain an adequate livelihood.
Additional land will be acquired to enhance the prospect of sustainable livelihood for displaced cornmuniil es
in existing relocation sites as well as for new relocation sites to attract voluntary relocation of the p Dpulati on
from the high-risk villages around Rabaul. The land will consist of either plantations acquired through
commercial transactions between willing seller and willing buyer, or of state land in appropriate locations. In
cases; where operating plantations are purchased, contract workers living on the plantation will have to be laid
off and relocated. Since all the additional land to be acquired has not yet been identified, the extent of suci:
relocation is not known.
Mitigation due to involuntary displacement caused by purchase of landfor settlement sites: Mitigation
measures will be phased as separate action plans if and when the need arises, following purchase of
plantation land. To ensure compliance with the OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement, ENBPA. has
approved a Policy for Relocation and Compensation to address the needs of affected workers and the,r
families who lose employment, use of housing, and use, access to or ownership of assets at operating
plantations that are acquired by ENBPA to provide land for voluntary relocation of the populatlion fr(om
the high risk villages around Rabaul. Based on a census and inventory of losses, time bound action pl ins
with a budget will be prepared to assist them to find comparable employment on neighboring pilantati tns,
provide logistical support for moving to the new location, appropriate compensation at replacement cost
for any assets lost, and a relocation grant to compensate income lost due to the move. These mitigation
activities will be undertaken before new sites are opened for settlement by beneficiaries from the hig:l
risk villages (Annex 12). The principles and format for such relocation and compensation action plan: fDr
affected plantation workers form part of ENBPA's Policy on Rural Settlement and Resettlement whic h
provides the framework for the voluntary relocation from the high-risk villages around Rabaul. A get eric
format for planning for relocation relocation is outlined in Annex 13, and a specific Action Plan has bien
approved by ENBPA for plantation workers at the relocation site purchased at Vunakambi.
Civil works: No additional land acquisition is required to implement civil works under the project. Any laril
acquisition that may be required for MTRP Phase II would be acquired on a commercial basis of willing
seller/willing buyer or otherwise in a manner consistent with Bank policies relating to compensation.
7. Environmental assessment:          Environmental Category   [ ] A    [X] B    [ ] C
The project has been assessed as a Category B project under the IBRD Operational Policy (O.P) 4.01 and tiLe
PNG National Government environmental legislation, the Environmental Planning Act, 1978. All M'TRP
Phase I components have been screened by the GRAIPIU environmental officer. Whilst the vast majority o`



21
the investments in the project are small-to-medium size in scale with restoration and rehabilitation of roads,
and port-related infrastructure at previously existing locations, this screening process has confirmed the Bank's
assessment of the need to prepare a site specific environmental management plan (EMP) with environmental
mitigation measures and safeguards that would emphasize operations & maintenance issues, in particular, for
the following components:
a) the Rabaul/Kokopo Road - evaluation and preparation of an Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
for the preferred corridor;
b) Kokopo and Rabaul urban drainage focusing on operation and maintenance capability;
c) erosion control for the Port of Rabaul focusing on operation & maintenance issues;
d) land use management, water supply, sanitation and solid waste components of the relocation sites; and
e) all urban solid waste and sanitation components.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that Environmental Management Plans for these components will be
completed and approved under Provincial Environmental Management Program (PEMP) procedures. For a),
b), c) and e), which are being financed by the Bank, these EMPs will be a condition of disbursement on the
component.
Project preparation activities have emphasized the importance of developing an effective ENBPA
Environmental Policy Framework and strengthening ENBPA's and GRA/PIU's capability to implement on-
going and sustainable environmental assessment procedures. It was agreed that the spirit and intent of the
Environmental Planning Act, 1978, should be taken into account by the development of an East New Britain
Environmental Policy. This has been prepared and adopted in full by the East New Britain Provincial
Assembly. This policy stipulates that no development, regardless of size, will occur outside the parameters of
the National Legislation and the term "environment" refers to the whole biological, physical and social
structure. ENBPA has also agreed to prepare Environmental Guidelines for development proposals based on
similar National Guidelines. These guidelines provide operational advice to planners, project managers and
contractors during the planning, design and implementation phases of a development project that does not
require formal approval of an environmental assessment.
All of the above components of the policy framework are referred to as the Provincial Environmental
Management Program (PEMP). The PEMP is to be implemented by both the ENBPA and GRA as a routine
internal procedure (within the GRA initially) over the course of MTRP Phase I, and then transferred, at
handover, to the appropriate section within ENBPA (presently the Division of Planning and Research).
Technical assistance will be provided in the loan to support the development of institutional capability in the
areas of land use, water resources and wastewater management and protection of the significant coastal zone
resources in the Kokopo-Tokua Corridor. These initiatives will be supported by AusAID-financed technical
advisors, who will work with counterparts in the GRA/PIU and ENBPA. Also included in the loan program
will be a study to address the critical environmental health issue of the on-going exposure to volcanic ash
emissions from Mt. Tavurvur. For this study, a study steering committee of local experts from the Rabaul
Volcanological Observatory and local hospitals has been organized. In addition, plans will be formulated for
coastal zone management and for coastal hazards mitigation in association with the Regional Economic and
Spatial Strategy Study under the project.
Borrower permission to release ES (Environmental Summary):  [X] Yes    [I] No  [ ] N/A
8. Participatory Approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Sakehlo1       -_                        L                                 f



22
a. Primary beneficiaries
Population from high risk villages                   IS/CON          CON             CO],
'Host' cormnunities                                  IS/CON          CON            CO],
Beneficiaries of leases in new urban sub-divisions     Is
b. Other key stakeholders
Business community/private sector
Provincial Govermment                                 COL            COL             COL
NGOs (CON/COL following capacity assessment)          CON             COL            COL
During the preparation of MTRP, information and consultation meetings have been held to discuss the project
design and components with representatives of each Local Community Government. ENBPA has been d.rectly
involved throughout.
While the early stages of ITRP involved consultation with the population settling in the relocation sites
regarding land use and site layout and with the 'host' communities regarding joint use of facilities like sc].ools,
such consultation was not undertaken during initial planning for MTRP, but was reintroduced to solicit thd
views of involved communities on project priorities. GRA and ENBPA have recognized the need to stren3then
and sustain direct consultations with: a) displaced communities as primary beneficiaries regarding relocatiorn
options, land use planning and site infrastructure; and b) with both the displaced communities and the 'hcst'
community regarding provision of shared social services and possible joint involvement in O&M. To this end,
Resettlement Coordinators have again been mobilized for each of the relocation sites to facilitate liaison
between the project and the target populations.
No systematic consultation has taken place with the two NGC)s active in ENB; the ENB Council for Women
and the Social Action Committee (SAC). However, in the immediate aftermath of the 1994 eruption, the ' AC
assisted GRA with crisis counseling for victims of the eruption, and later undertook environmental awarer-ess
campaigns in the relocation sites. To examine the scope for NGO involvement during the project, the
following activities will be undertaken:
-  Assessment of NGO capacity, the scope for their involvemnent in project activities, and the possible need.
for human resource development.
*  Based on the capacity assessment, consultation and planning regarding SAC support to GRA on
environmental awareness building in the relocation sites.
*  Based on the capacity assessment, consultation and planning regarding the ENB Council for Wiomen :lor
promotion of health education and micro-enterprise development targeting women in the relocation si tes
for which funding is available under the project.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability of livelihood for the population relocating outside the high risk areas depends, in part, on th
size of plots allocated, as well as on access to employment outside the relocation sites, for example, in the
repidly growing urban centers (job availability and accessibility determined by distance and transpart cost;).
Sustainability of the restoration strategy relies on releasing more land for commercial as well as residential use
on the kokopo area.



23
2. Possible Controversial Aspects (Project Alert System):
Risk                       Type of   Risk Rating   Risk Minimization Measure
Risk
Forfeiture arrangements for displaced families who  S         M        consultation with communities
do not take up full-time residence on plots allocated                  involved and clear requirements in
in relocation sites and also for applicants in Kenebot                 leases issued.
housing subdivision who do not commence
construction within two years of being allocated a
plot.
Type of Risk - S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Governance), M (Managernent capacity), 0 (Other)
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                           Risk Rating    Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
*   adequate and timely counterpart funds                  H         *   establishment of Executing
Agency Trust Fund
*  health effects from poor air quality in Rabaul          H         *   air quality study under project
*  social and economic impact of further volcanic          H         *   shift of population and economic
eruptions                                                            activity away from high risk
areas
*   sustained political and business community consensus   M         *   Strongly committed political
on shift to Kokopo area                                              leadership in ENBPA and the
existing scale of commercial
activity in and around kokopo
*  ability of GRA to establish broad-based consultation    M         *   resumption of consultations with
process                                                              businesses and displaced
communities for project works,
and with wider stakeholder
group for Regional Economic
and Spatial Strategy
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
*  ability of GRA to recruit additional skills required    N         *  bilateral funding of consultants
*   effective transitional arrangements for integration of  M        *   institutional support to prepare
GRA into ENBPA                                                       for transition.
*  Ability of ENBPA to acquire the additional land         M         *   Only minor additional land
required for sustainable livelihood for the displaced                purchases are likely
population.
Overall Risk Rating      M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
a) Establishment of an Executing Agency Trust Account (EATA) with an initial deposit in an amount
(estimated at K2.5 million), to cover the full project funding needs for the first quarter of
implementation;
b) The GRA Financing Agreement has been executed;
c) The ELCOM MOA has been duly executed between ELCOM and GRA;
d) The GRA Project Accountant has been appointed; and
e) The Project Steering Committee has been established with representation satisfactory to the Bank.



24
2. Other:
a) on specific annual counterpart funding levels from GoPNG and ENBPA and for the project;
b) on maintenance funding responsibility of National Harbors Board for Rabaul Port protection Works;
c) on the terms of contracting out to ENBPA by DOTW management of maintenance for the
Rabaul/Kokopo Road, including cost sharing provisions; and
d) on regulation of water & sanitation throughout the Kokopo/Tokua Corridor, including existing and
proposed private sector development at Takobar.
Disbursement Conditions
a) an Environmental Management Plan for the following components: i) Rabaul-Kokopo Road; (ii) KoL;opo
and Rabaul urban drainage; (iii) erosion control for the Port of Rabaul; and (iv) all urban solid waste and
sanitation components.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start ol
project implementation.
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory qual:ty.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[signature]
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Stuart Whitehead
[signaature]
Se     ,anager/Director: Keshav Varma
[signiature] ,^-
Country Manager/Director: Klaus Rohland



25
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Papua New Guinea: Second Gazelle Restoration Project
Narrative Summary            Key Performance Indicators          Monitoring and           Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                  (From Goal to Bank Mission)
In Northem Gazelle Peninsula between
MTRP Phase I and Phase II                                    * Investment in
*  sustainable, broad-based    *   increase in business activity, jobs    *   Bank           infrastructure and
economic growth and           and average incomes in NE Gazelle    economic/sector        government services will
improved living standards   *   increased coverage of basic        dialogue and           result in growth in private
for majority of the           government services                  supervision            sector business activity
population                                                         missions               and improved social
indicators.
Project Development           Indicative End-of-Program Indicators                        (Objective to Goal)
Objective:                                by 2004
* restoration of self-
sufficiency and well-
being of East New
Britain people to the level
prevailing prior to the
1994 volcanic disaster
MTRP Phase I (stabilization):   *  restoration of health and education    *   progress reports and   *   restoration of basic
completion of ITRP and          services, water supply and sanitation  supervision           infrastructure and services
institutional transition        service to affected population        missions               improves quality of life for
*  provision of non-project services                             affected population and
MTRP Phase II                   (including passenger transport, etc.)   *   supervision       stimulates increased
(consolidation):                to resettled communities              missions               business activity
normalization to longer-term  *  reduction in erosion of caldera and                       *   the current depressed
development process        sedimentation in Rabaul Port      *   consultations - GRA    economic and political
*  full occupation at relocation sites   & supervision          climate which is
that provide sustainable livelihood   missions               dampening investor
for displaced families and       *   periodic                confidence will improve
satisfactory resettlement of          consultations with    *   resettlement sites will
displaced plantation workers in       Chamber of             provide comparable living
accordance with agreed policy         Commerce, banking      environment and access to
*  Consolidation of private sector       sector, port,           livelihood as traditional
economic activities in new            government             villages destroyed
development areas                     agencies, etc.      *  designation of Kokopo as
*  Establishment of Kokopo as                                    clarify   cational
regional government center with                              clarify locational
major increase in population                                 scentoves for business
*  Implementation of longer-term                                sector
development planning reflecting       GoENB annual
economic, natural and human           Budget     a
resources in province as well as      Budgets
plans for coastal zone management
and mitigation of coastal hazards in
East New Britain Province
* Full GoENB funding of warranted
O&M costs on assets restored under
MTRP Phase I and
Project Development             To be met before effectiveness of  Means of Verification
Objective                         MTRP Phase II (June 2002)
MTRP Phase I



26
*  completion of infrastructure and  *   GRA Quarterly        *   Establishment of
completion of restoration       services and at least an 80 percent   monitoring reports      effective consultative
works initiated under ITRP      occupancy at all relocation sites  *   Bank supervision       arrangemenms with
and institutional transition  *  100% completion of Port-related      missions and            displaced ccmrnmunities arn
protection works in Rabaul and        periodic evaluations   established
approval of revised zoning plan that
prohibits redevelopment in the                            *   sustained :iolitical and
devastated areas of Rabaul                                   business co rnmunity
*  75 % completion of other                                      consensus c i shift to
infrastructure, utilities & social                            Kokopo area
services under Phase I, including
Rabaul/Kokopo Road (except for                             *   continued -ffectiveness
Vulcan section)                                               of (GRA im:lementation
*  formulation of spatial and economic                           performance
strategy framework and institutional
plan for longer-term development                           *   tirnely mobilization of
development as well as plans for                              high quality technical
coastal zone management and                                   assistance and effective
mitigation of coastal hazards in East                         involvement by GoENB
New Britain Province in East New                              officials and politicians
Britain Province
*  approval by GoENB of detailed
arrangements to integrate GRA into
the Provincial Government.
Outputs:                                                                                   (Outputs to Objective)
By end-2000
I .  Improving the Quality of   * Mobilization of additional      *  supervision missions   *   shift in criteria of
Life of Displaced          agricultural land (in addition to                              GoENB Lands Dept.
Communities                Vunakambi) required for Ulamatis                               criteria to rc Elect potential
Care Center community, Gelagela                              livelihood cliaracteristics
community and for displaced                                   of sites
communities from Vulcan area.                              *   ability of (IRA to
*  Implementation of site layout plan,    *   periodic surveys   establish bread-based
priority infrastructure and services,                         consultation process
community development and                                  *   est:ablishnmnt of
economic support in accordance                                agricultural extension
with agreed "compact" with each                               services, cormiunity
displaced community.                                          developmer, and
*  Completion of site survey and issue                           economic support,
of leases in Gelagela                                         particularly for relocated
*  Completion of site survey and                                 population ;id women's
allotment of blocks in Vunakabi                               groups
*  80% of Sigut (Matupit) site occupied                       *  imp lementzti ion of
*  <30% of relocated families                                    forfieiture pr  caedings
remaining below poverty line                                 initiated for delinquent
*  satisfactory resettlement of                                  famrilies
displaced plantation workers in
accordance with agreed policy
2.  Consolidation of Kokopo   *   Completion of Kokopo/Rabaul Rd.                          *   sustained p:IDlitical and
as Provincial Capital       (except Vulcan section)                                       business coii mtunity
*   Completion of roads and drainage,                            consensus o . shift to
in Kokopo Town and 50%                                      Kokopo areai
occupancy and about 50%                                  *  Improved al cess to land to
forfeiture of undeveloped leases at                          facilitate ra-pid
the Kenebot Stage I housing area.                            con solidatic. i of
*   Construction of the commercial                               dev.lopmei .: irt and
center and market and initial phase                          arotmd Kokopo
of government administration                             *  Implementation of land
center at Kokopo.                                           tax to captui! betterment
value of dev4lopment in



27
Kokopo area
*   implementation of
forfeiture proceedings by
GoENB for late housing
construction
3.  Restoring Viability of   *   Rehabilitation of Port-related   periodic surveys        *  political will to sustain
Rabaul as Regional Port     infrastructure and Facilities at                              constituency for dispersed
Simpson Harbor, Ah Tam and                                   spatial strategy.
Dawapia Wharves                                          *  modification of Rabaul
*   Implementation of management                                 Town Plan to restrict
contract for Ah Tam Wharf to                                 unwarranted development
strengthen commercial viability                              of high risk areas
*   Stabilization of caldera slopes and
control of sedimentation
*   Restoration of health care services
to remaining population.
4.  Development of           *   Rehabilitation of key road links
Provincial Townships         between townships and major
urban areas of kokopo and Rabaul
*   Provision of water supply and
education facilities to established
townships and new township of
Baliora
5.  Longer-Term Economic    *   Completion of feasibility                                  *   effectiveness of technical
Strategy                     assessments of proposals in the                               advisors and effective
agriculture and fisheries sectors                            participation of GRA and
*   Incorporation of a framework and                              GoENB official and
institutional strategy for expanding                         politicians.
and diversifying the economic base
of the province into the Medium
and longer-term development plan,
including impacts on spatial
development, planning and
construction standards that could
reduce infrastructure investment
costs.
regulation of satisfactory provision
for water supply and sanitation in
land use and development plans
and adoption of environmental
management policies and
procedures (PEMP) satisfactory to
Bank
Project Components/Sub-      Inputs: (budget)                                             (Components to Outputs)
components:
1. Improving the Quality of             K8.18 million             *   progress and         *   ability of GRA to recruit
Life of Displaced                                                   disbursement             additional skills required
Communities                                                         reports              *   ability of GRA to
1.1. land Mobilization                  K2.01 million                                          maintain high quality
1.2. Infrastructure and Utility                                                                management following
Services                            K5.55 million                                          change of Program
1.3. Social & Public Safety                                                                    Director
Services                            KO.41 million                                     *   effective transitional
1.4. Community                                                                                 arrangements for
Development and                                                                           integration of GRA into
Economic Support                    K0.21 million                                          GoENB
*   willingness of other
2. Consolidation of Kokopo                      . .                                            donors to finance
as Provincial Capital                K52.11 million                                          Medium-Term
Development Program



28
2.1. Transportation
Infrastructure                        K28.54 million
2.2. Utility Infrastructure,
Social Services and
Public safety                          K4.19 million
2.3. Economic Support &
Govemnment
Administration                        K 1 9.37 million
3. Restoring Viablity of                  K12.04 million
Rabaul as Regional Port
3.1. Land management                       KO. 19 million
management
3.2. Port-related                          K9.32 million
Infrastructure
3.3. Utility Infrastructure,
Social, economic &                     K2.52 million
Public Safety Services
4. Development of support
infrastructure and services             K1.  million
for N.E. Gazelle Peninsula
4.R1. Physical Infrastructure &            K8.54 million
Social, Public Safety and
Economic Services
5. conomic Diversification                 K04.78 million
andLonger-Term
Development Planning                     K2.47 million
5.1. Potential New economic
Activities                             K2.31 million
5.2. Longer-Term Framework
Strategy                  _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _         _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _      _ _ _ _



29
Annex 2
Second Gazelle Restoration Project
Project Description
To achieve the goals of restoring social and economic and social wellbeing to the
people of the Gazelle Peninsula, the overall program and Bank-financed project
would support the following components:
Project Component 1 - Improving the Quality of Life of Displaced
Communities (US$3.03 million)
A total of 30,000 people lost their homes in parts of Rabaul Town and in traditional
villages located in areas devastated by volcanic eruption. About 12,000 people were
repatriated to their home provinces and about 40 percent the remainder have returned
to their original villages. Thus, there is a displaced population of about 10,000 which
have been accommodated either in permanent relocation sites acquired by GoENB
and developed by the GRA or in temporary care centers pending allocation of a lot in
a permanent relocation site.
To sustain social traditions and strong community links, relocation sites have been
assigned to village communities. Some communities have expressed a preference for
clustered village settlement that would retain a plantation base for food and cash
crops. Others have requested that sites be subdivided to individual families.
Sub-component 1.1: Land mobilization ($0.74 million)
The component would finance acquisition and survey of additional land at
Vunakambi relocation site for the community originally expected to relocate to
Warena and surveys at the partly developed relocation site at Sigute. Warena is too
small to allow for a viable livelihood through subsistence agriculture and its location
is inconvenient to the Kokopo area which has new urban jobs. The Vunakambi site
was selected following consultation with the community affected. Additional land
may be required to accommodate the balance of the population targeted for Warena,
but who wish to remain in the care center at Warangoi. This additional land may
either be provided in the form of another relocation site or as agricultural land for
people who have taken up residence at Warangoi. Additional agricultural land will
also be acquired for the large, relatively dense population at Gelagela Relocation Site.
Sub-component 1.2: Infrastructure and Utility services ($2.05 million)
The component would finance provision of internal site roads in Sigute (Talvat).
Electric power would be provided to Gelagela, Sigute, Clifton and Vunakambi, all of
which are located close to the main grid. Water supply would be provided to these
sites through communal rainwater tanks supplemented by groundwater wells as
necessary. Although ground conditions comprised of pumice are relatively
permeable, preliminary assessments indicate that pit latrines for individual families
would provide satisfactory sanitation. As deep wells are below a coronas layer, they
are protected against contamination from human waste. Even so, geological
investigations will be undertaken to ensure that the risk of contamination of the water
table from pit latrines and septic tanks is minimal. Household waste is small in
volume and organic for the most part and is not expected to grow rapidly in these
low-income, traditional village communities. Generated waste will be disposed on



30
plot by each family. A site for any residual wastes is to be reserved in each
resettlement site for any future disposal needs.
Sub-component 1.3: Social and Public Safety services ($0.15 million)
The aid posts at Gelagela would be upgraded to a full health center to serve a larger
catchment population. In addition, extension services in health awareness and health
education would be provided in each resettlement site.
Sub-component 1.4: Community development and economic support ($0.08
million)
The project would provide agricultural extension services for food and cash crops and
markets for local produce.
Project Component 2 - Consolidation of Kokopo as Provincial Capital (US$19.28
million)
Sub-component 2.1: Transportation Injfrastructure ($10.56 million)
The highest priority investment under the project is restoration of the 30 km road
between Rabaul port and Kokopo Town and its growing business sector. Abouli
2,500 vehicles per day travel this road. Restoration of this corridor will be undertaken
in two phases. The sections from Rabaul to the Vulcan (Tunnel Hill to Rapolo) and
from Kokopo to the Vulcan (Kokopo to Karavia) will be implemented under the first
phase project. The middle section (Burmah Junction to Karavia), which crosses the
flanks of Vulcan will be implemented on a slightly different alignment during the
second phase project once a satisfactory level of consolidation of the base material
(volcanic ash) is indicated by monitoring arrangements. In the meantime, the project
will finance an intensive maintenance regime for this section involving weekly
grading, etc. The project will also finance restoration of the Burmah Road (Rakunau
to Raluan) which joins the Vulcan section and carries a high traffic volume.
Restoration of roads and drains within Kokopo Town will also be financed under the
project.
Sub-component 2.2: Utility infrastructure, social services and public sa,fety
($1.55 million)
To compensate for power supply fluctuations on the main grid which are expected to
continue pending construction of planned, major new generation capacity in the
province, the project will provide back up generators for key public facilities. Tlese
generators will be strategically located at the police and fire service headquarters and
at a new radio broadcasting facilities in the town as well as at the present Provincial
Government main offices at Vunadidir and at transmitter stations. In addition, the
project will finance water supply for the Butuwin health center serving Kokopo and
the surrounding area. The possible need for, and timing of a reticulated sewerage
system in Kokopo Town to replace the present reliance on septic tanks is to be
assessed under the project. In addition, a new solid waste disposal site will be
provided at Raniola to replace open dumping at the existing site for Kokopo To wn (as
well as Baliora). The project will also finance a new community school serving 6 to
12 year old students for the growing population of Kokopo Town and the surrounding
area and a new facility for women's groups activities and outreach services. In
addition, the project will finance a provincial headquarters facility for women's
groups activities that would focus, in particular, on vocational and skills training and



31
community-based micro-credit for women and girls as well as health awareness and
education.
Sub-component 2.3: Economic support and government administration
($7.17 million)
To consolidate commercial activity and government administration in the town, the
project will finance construction of a supporting infrastructure for a commercial
center (the building for which will be self-financed by block-holders) adjacent to the
government administration center for national and provincial agencies. Site
development and the first phase of the government administration center is also to be
constructed under the project. The project will also finance a permanent fresh food
market for the town.
Project Component 3 - Restoration of Rabaul as a Regional Port (US$4.45
million)
Rabaul port is a key economic asset accounting for about 80 percent of the Province's
trade. The recently constructed provincial wharves have also helped to reinforce the
Province's role in the economy of the New Guinea Islands Region of PNG. This
component would help protect against disruption of port operations from
accumulation of siltation from volcanic ash deposits and erosion of the caldera slopes.
Sub-component 3.1: Land Management ($0.07 million)
Site surveys for public institutional land.
Sub-component 3.2: Rehabilitation of Port-related Infrastructure and Facilities
($3.45 million)
The project will fund silt traps and a groyne to limit future fouling at these facilities.
Damage to the wharf at Ah Tam will be repaired to restore capacity at this heavily
used provincial part facility. The project will finance erosion control including:
revegitation and gully control to stabilize caldera slopes and reduce runoff, remove
salvageable materials and seeding of broadacre areas in zones 2 and 3 to the East and
South in Rabaul Town where redevelopment is prohibited under the town plan.
Rehabilitation (including drainage and footpath works) of Blanche Street fronting the
main port.
Sub-component 3.3: Restoration of essential utility, infrastructure and public
services ($0.93 million)
The project would finance rehabilitation mains water supply, health and education
facilities for the remaining population. Specifically, in the electric power sector, the
project would include back up generators at the police station. For water supply, the
three bores and the pumping equipment operated by the National Water Board will be
rehabilitated and a storage reservoir that was destroyed during the eruption will be
reconstructed. St. Joseph's Community School at Malaguna will be expanded to meet
the needs of the catchment population. The town clinic will be rehabilitated as well as
a new facility for women's groups activities and outreach services. A new market
serving the overall population of the Rabaul District will be constructed in a new
location away from the devastated area and a facility for women's groups services
will be reconstructed.



32
Project Component 4 - Utility infrastructure and social services for N.E.
Gazelle Peninsula (US$6.86 million)
Development of provincial townships plays a key role in GoENB's strategy to
establish a more dispersed pattern of settlernent in the Gazelle Peninsula with viable
livelihood located away from the high-risk zones in and around Rabaul.
To support the economic links between important towns and with the rural hinterland
the project would finance restoration of the national road link from Baliora to
Warangoi Bridge.
The project would also finance provision of water supply (including deep wells and
distribution to individual connections) at Baliora Township as well as at the
Vunamami Farmer's Training Center.
In addition, the Valilie High school at Utmei, Malabunga High School and the
Teacher's Training Center at Kabaleo would be upgraded and/or extended. These
works are needed to reduce overcrowding and reliance on double-shift classes at
existing high schools, which increase risks to students travelling at dusk. The health
centers at Kerevat and Warangoi would be upgraded, and a facility for women's
groups services constructed at Kerevat. A police post would be located at Bitapaka to
enhance community security in the area. The project would also support a Village
Development Fund to finance community-based infrastructure and services,
community development and promotion of economic activities. This component is
intended to help strengthen the impact on the wider population of the N.E. Gazelle
Peninsula including, in particular, host communities (including ethnic minorities) in
the vicinity of relocation sites for families.
Project Component 5 - Institution Building for Longer-Term Development
Planning (US$1.77 million)
As the first, immediate restoration program moves towards completion, it is necessar)
to establish the building blocks for a more regularized and planned basis for the
development of the Gazelle Peninsula and the province as a whole. This calls for
establishment of a broader analytical framework for assessing and prioritizing
development options reflecting economic and financial, environmental and social, as
well as engineering issues.
Sub-component 5.1: Development Planning ($0.85 million)
The project would support an increase in technical capacity to facilitate transition out
of the emergency response mode required immediately following the eruption. To this
end, the project would finance a study to formulate a longer-term economic and
spatial framework and implementation strategy for the region. Options for new crops
and for improved production processes for existing crops will be assessed. The
Australian Government has agreed to finance consultant advisors to upgrade the
capacity of GoENB for economic, financial, environmental and social analysis to hely
refine the Medium-Term Restoration Strategy and these advisors will also contribute
the work of the longer-term Economic Framework Study and other components of the
technical assistance program.
In addition, a management plan will be prepared for the coastal zone area between
Kokopo and Tokua airport, which is already under significant development pressure



33
together with a plan for mitigating coastal hazards. This plan will be prepared jointly
by the GRA and GoENBPA. Following completion of the Economic Development
Strategy, these plans will be integrated into the review of the Kokopo Urban
Development Plan by GoENB.
Technical assistance will also be provided for a study of air quality and
environmental health effects of ongoing ash emissions from Mt. Tavurvur.
Sub-component 5.2: R&D into Economic Diversification ($0.92 million)
The project will expand research (including nursery facilities) into cash and
foodcrops, livestock and fisheries development, cocoa and coffee. These activities
will be undertaken by GoENB in joint venture with the private sector. The project
would also finance an expansion of the CCEA as well as an incinerator for the
Department of agriculture and Lands (DAL).
Project Component 6 - Design and Supervision of project components for the
first phase of the project and design of components planned for implementation
during the second phase (US$3.81 million).



34
Annex 3
Second Gazelle Restoration Project
Estimated Project Costs
Component                  Local           Foreign           Total
--------------------US$ equivalent---------------------
Improving the Quality of Lifefor
Displaced Communities                        0.98             1.39             2.37
Land Mobilization                            0.49             0.15             0.63
Infrastructure and Utility Services          0.41             1.14             1.56
Social & Public Safety Services              0.04             0.08             0.12
Community Development and
Economic Support                             0.03             0.03             0.06
Consolidation of Kokopo as
Provincial Capital                           5.01             9.88            14.90
Land management
Transportation Infrastructure                2.87             5.31             8.19
Utility Infrastructure, Social Services
and Public safety                            0.47             0.74             1.21
Economic Support & Government
Administration                               1.68             3.82             5.50
Restoration of Rabaul as Regional
Port                                         1.45             2.07             3.52
Land management                              0.04             0.03             0.06
Port-related Infrastructure                  1.14             1.59             2.73
Utility Infrastructure, Social, economic
& Public Safety Services                     0.27             0.45             0.73
Development of support
infrastructure and services for N.E.
Gazelle Peninsula                            1.85             3.51             5.36
Land management
Physical Infrastructure & Social, Public
Safety and Economic Services                 1.85             3.51             5.36
Economic Diversification and Longer-
Term Development Planning                    0.52             1.03             1.55
Land management
Potential New Economic Activities            0.42             0.34             0.76
Studies                                      0.10             0.69             0.79
Total Base Costs                             9.81            17.89            27.70
Design & Supervision                        1.19             2.17             3.36
Subtotal                                    11.00            20.05            31.05
Physical Contingencies                      1.20             2.19             3.40
Price Contingencies                         3.83             0.92             4.75
Total Program Cost                          16.03            23.17            39.20



35
Annex 4
Papua New Guinea - Second Gazelle Restoration Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 4.1 Regional Economic Setting
A. General
The overarching objective of the proposed project is to contribute toward sustainable restoration of the
north-east Gazelle Peninsular Region following the destruction caused by the volcanic eruption of
September 19, 1994. Three key elements of the proposed project serve this objective:
(a) restoration of basic infrastructure, including major roads;
(b) restoration of an adequate livelihood for those communities whose villages and land were destroyed
(especially those who remain in temporary care centers); and
(c) restoration of a viable economic base for the region.
Economic aspects of these three elements, including cost benefit analysis and sustainability, are
summarized in Section E of the text. However, given the breadth of the proposed Project, a description
of the regional setting is set out below to provide an overall perspective.
B. Regional Setting
At the time of the 1994 eruption, the population of the North-east Gazelle Region (Rabaul, Kokopo and
Gazelle Districts), was estimated to have been 162,222 or 79% of the population of the ENB Province.
The current population is not known; the last census was taken in 1990 and a large number of
immigrants to the region (around 20,000 people) left the region after the eruption. However, the rate of
population growth, last estimated at 3.38% p.a., was the highest in PNG. Historically, the region has
experienced solid economic development based upon its main agriculture exports of copra and cocoa.
Rural population densities are relatively high and land is tightly held; large parcels of land are owned by
plantation groups and church organizations.
Changes in the regional economy in recent years are indicated in Table A4. 1, which shows movements
in some leading economic aggregates (sales, capital expenditure and employment) for the Rabaul
District and the wider Islands Region.



36
Table A4.1: PNG, Rabaul and Islands - Percentage Change(l)
in Economic Aggregates, 1993-1997
1993      1994      1995       1996      1997
Rabaul(2)
Sales(4)             25        -6         16         3         1
Capital Exp.(4)     -80        28         48        31        6
Employment(5)        (2)      (-0.4)    (-3.4)     (6.6)     (12)
Islands Region(3)
Sales                25         7         27        29        5
Capital Exp.         23        -26        90        96       687
Employment(5)       (n.a.)     (33)     (-22)      (12.9)   (15.9)
Source: PNG Central Bank Statistics
Notes:  (1) Rounded to nearest whole number
(2) Rabaul District area comprises Gazelle loca] level govemment areas of Kokopo, Kerevat and R,.baul.
(3) Islands Region covers Provinces of East and West New Britain and New Ireland
(4) Sales and Capital Expenditures in nominal Kina over each year
(5) Employment is expressed in index numbers
The pattern of changes exhibits good growth, punctuated by a decline in 1994 that can, in part, be
attributed to the volcanic eruption. The major regional exports, copra and cocoa, have also shown
strong growth, partly led by higher international prices. Production figures for these two export cI:ps
are shown in Table A4.2 and output trends for 1991-1998, are illustrated in Figure A4.3. East Nev,T
Britain accounts for over half of PNG's cocoa exports and almost 40% of the country's copra exports.
(The majority of the production is from small holders.)
Table A4.2: PNG, ENB Province - COPRA and COCOA
Production 1997 - August 1998
Export                           1997          1998 (to August)
Copra
Metric Tonnes             27,340         28,216
Value (K million)(l)      7,997           9,500
Cocoa
Metric Tonnes             11,411         18,214
Value (K million)(1)      18,725         29,142
Source: ENB Provincial Administration
Notes: (1) Price Rise in both exports, 1997 - 1998



37
Figure A4.3  PNG, ENB Province - Copra and Cocoa
Production, 1992 - 98 (metric tonnes)
50
45
40
, 35                               -
30
0  25                                                Copra
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ya
10
00
1 991    1 992    1 993    1 994    1 995    1 996    1 9 97    1 998
Year
Notes: (1) January-August of 1998.
The buoyancy of the Rabaul - Gazelle local economy over the last 5 years is illustrated in Figure A4.4
which shows the percentage changes in sales (total, construction and agriculture) over the period 1993-
1997.
Figure A4.4: Rabaul/Gazelle - Percentage Change in Sales 1993 - 1997
60Cnsrco
c  so.  E          j~~~~~~~~Total/
E     s
o3               \&- A Agriculture
40
30
*.2
> 10
C., C   0                RAIC
u     ,0.   1993                                  96        1997      Year
-20
At the provincial level, retail and wholesale sales transactions show the solid response that has been
taking place in the ENB Province, most of which reflects activity in the north-east Gazelle Region.



38
Figure A4.5: PNG, ENB Province - Value of Sales Transactions
1995 - 1997 (Nominal Prices)
30
24.6                27.2
'E   20  -0 t 8-.4                              19.43
._~~~~~:I _7         ~ 19. 46
y    10
Wholesale
+ Retail
1995           1996           1997      Year
C. Rabaul Port Activity
The port facilities at Rabaul may be regarded as the most important infrastructure in the Province; the
port is crucial to the regional economy for the export of agricultural products, for supporting mari ime
transport to the wider Islands Region and, of course, for facilitating imports, principally mEnufactiring
goods.
The strength of recovery of the regional economy is also reflected in port activity statistics. In terms of
usage of the main port, ship movements by type of cargo are set out in Table A4.6.
Table A4.6: PNG, Rabaul Port - Ship Movement, 1993-97
Year
Vessel Type            1993     1994(1)   1995       1996      1997    199872T
Overseas    Container           69        49        37        32        43        34
General Cargo      37        19        13        34        32        9
Tanker             57        32        28        29        31        21
RO - RO            24        17         9        11        17        16
Cruise             11         8        2         0          1        3
Log Ship          171        148       65       185       139        78
Other              58        32        51        99       143       205
Sub-Total                     427       305       205       390       406       :366
Coastal      General Cargo      50        45        58        74        65        47
Tanker             11        10        16        33        12        25
Barge              4         28        30        41        63        20
Passenger          16        26        22        27        6         4
Other              13        66        35        48        11        59
Sub-Total                     94        175       161       223       157       [55
TOTAL                       521       480       366       613       563       n.a.
_ ~~~~~~ _                                                   (454)(2)  (S    Ii
Source: PNG Harbours Board
Notes:  (I) Volcanic eruption in Rabaul occurred September 19, 1994
(2) January - September (incl.)



39
The data demonstrate the strong recovery in the overseas trades. Coastal shipping has also recovered in
the post eruption period (1995-1998), although with less growth in ship movements (see below.) In
overseas trade there appears to have been a substantial decline in timber exports; log-ships' use of the
port fell in 1997 and (on the figures though September) also in 1998. The recent Asian financial crisis
is the likely explanation for this decline in timber exports. These trends in overseas, coastal, and total
ship usage of Rabaul Port are illustrated in Figure A4.7.
Figure A4.7: PNG, Rabaul Port -- Ship Usage, 1993-1998
700
600
o                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~521
IL , 500
oE
400
300
a.43
3 E 200
1993      1994       1995       1996       1997   1998
Year                        (Jan - Sept)
+..- CoastalL
_.... Overseas (Container, Break Bulk, Fuel, RO-RO) Excludes log ships,j
other and Cruise
-.~Total (All vessels)
The relatively minor damage suffered by the port itself, and the short "downtime, " following the
eruption, accounts for the steady increase in overseas vessel movements, excluding log, cruise, and
other ships.
Details of tonnage movements through Rabaul Port, by type of cargo, are set out in Table A4.8. Data
though September, 1998 reinforce the strong growth since the eruption in overseas tonnage (inwards
and outwards.)



40
Table A4.8: PNG, Rabaul Port - Cargo Throughput, 1993-97
(Revenue Tonnes)
YEAR
TYPE OF CARGO
1993   1993(1)  1994(2)  1995(3)   1996      1997   1998 i),(2)
Overseas, Inwards + Outwards
Container            111,931  85,948   75,617   50,066   89,441   81,223      69,110
Break Bulk            37,341  28,116   24,561   28,895    18,559   24,972    86,897
Bulk Fuel             92,976  65,653   75,601   68,140   99,509   99,504    53,044
RO - RO                8,804   7,669    5,698       710    2,476    2,476      2,413
Sub Total                      242,248 179,717  175,779  147,101  207,509  205,699  219,051
Coastal: Inwards + Outwards
Container             32,538  22,547   32,061   27,677   31,543   35,433    48,955
Break Bulk            46,735  33,091   36,875   35,937   52,354   76,498    70,457
Bulk Fuel                  0       0        0         0    8,360    6,350     14,965
RO - RO                1,788   1,769    2,628    3,860    7,181    7,181       8,664
Sub Total                       79,273  55,638   68,936   63,614   92,257  118,281.   1i'4,377
Total
Overseas:  Inwards              202,879 143,822  151,968  112,169  159,563  168,266   1;2,523
Outwards              44,073  43,564   29,509   35,642   50,423   45,914    '; 8,941
Coastal:  Inwards               65,523  40,463   53,344   47,007   71,749   86,353    i56,916
Outwards              15,558  16,944   18,220   16,607   25,689   29,119       17,170
TOTAL                          332,113 244,793  253,041  215,285  309,423  333,637    354,505
Source: PNG Harbours Board
Notes:  (1) Volcanic eruption occurred September 9, 1994
(2) January- September (incl.)
(3) Data provided for 1995 and 1998 in Rabaul were incomplete; best estimates have been made.
Coastal tonnage has also showed strong growth (both inwards and outwards.) When combined wit'l the
coastal ship usage figures, it appears that average coastal vessel size andlor vessel capacity utilization
has increased. A comparison of the January-September period of 1998 with the same period in 19' 3,
again reveals strong growth - inwards, (as would be reinforced by the post-eruption reconstruction
activity but also outwards, reflecting growth in exports and transshipments.
D. Proposed Project and Regional Economy
Clearly, the regional economy is exhibiting growth and sustainability of this growth hinges on the
efficient functioning of Rabaul Port and the road arteries that serve it and the surrounding hinterlami in
the north-east Gazelle Peninsular. The Rabaul-Kokopo Road rehabilitation (and the port draixnage)
cornponent of the proposed project play a key role in serving the economic base of the region. Whi .e
regional growth in traditional agriculture exports is now strong, part of the vitality in the region still
derives from external injections of expenditures targeted at completing the restoration and rehabilit.tion



41
of facilities. As this task is completed, these external sources of income to the region will be phased
out. This poses a challenge to the Province and the region in terms of adjustment and the generation of
new sources of exports as replacements. This challenge will need to be addressed by stakeholders in
the region and a strategy for regional economic development formulated. This strategy should include
assessment of new export areas drawing upon the comparative advantages of the region: its fertile
agricultural capacity and rich fishing territorial waters, its location relative to international neighbors,
and its quality human capital base. Accordingly, under the proposed project, assistance will be
provided to progress the technical and process work associated with the formulation of this strategy.
Annex 4.2 Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
A. Rabaul - Kokopo Road Restoration.
A comprehensive cost benefit analysis was conducted for the rehabilitation and restoration of this 25 km
section of national highway linking the port at Rabaul to the newly designated provincial capital at
Kokopo and its surrounding hinterland. Existing traffic levels are in the range 4,900 - 2,300 vehicles
per day, depending on the section.
Special Circumstances of the Road.
The existing road alignment is located for much of its length along the coastline (harbor foreshore).
However, it also passes the base of a large volcanic vent (Vulcan). This Vulcan Section is now deeply
covered (up to 20 meters) in volcanic pumice ashes. A temporary earth road passes through this terrain
and requires frequent grading. However, the area of the Vulcan Section is vulnerable to shifting water
courses off an escarpment and the caldera of the actual Rabaul Volcano, which surrounds Simpson
Harbor and Rabaul. The instability of this area and how it will settle over time is not known. At present
this existing instability would place at high risk major civil works, such as concrete boxed culvert
drainage structures, as these could be washed out and would not be recoverable. In addition, the Vulcan
Section is exposed to the threat of future volcanic activity. Therefore, the first stage of the cost benefit
analysis focused on possible alternative route alignments for linking Rabaul to Kokopo. Prior to the
consideration of alternative routes for this link, the question of alternative locations for the port had also
been addressed. Ironically, the attractiveness of Rabaul Port - the deep water and all year shelter of
Simpson Harbor - derives from the harbor's volcanic origin - notwithstanding its continuing exposure
to risk. Unfortunately, no suitable alternative port locations to serve the region are available. It should
also be noted that damage to the port from the 1994 eruption was essentially to buildings, although there
are some continuing siltation problems from the surrounding volcanic deposits.
Alternative Route Alignment
Three alternative routes were assessed, including two circuitous routes which avoid the area near
Vulcan entirely by following existing roads and climbing to plateaux at the top of the caldera
escarpment. All routes were subjected to environmental screening with primary attention to land issues
(as some road widening and re-alignment would be necessary, given the significant truck traffic), local
accessibility, safety, noise, air quality, historical and cultural heritage sites and broad community
impact. For the two new possible alignments there would be a large increase in daily traffic including
trucks serving the port. The impact group was defined as the number of households within 50 meters of
the road alignment. Density of rural/peri-urban settlement along the road is moderately high - of the
order of 30 households per kilometer. Mitigation measures for environmental impacts were examined
and two participatory workshops with local level government representation, and community group
discussions with local residents, were undertaken to gauge the relative environmental and social impacts



42
across the three alternative routes. Details of the methodologies and findings are reported in Camrn and
Davies (1998), Rabaul - Kokopo Road Pre-Appraisal: Environmental Report and Social Impact
Assessment Report. On the basis of the population likely to be impacted (and for some comrmunities a
lack of previous exposure to relatively high traffic), acute land shortage, relative costs of environmnental
management/mitigation, and recognition of the much higher transport costs for the new routes with
steep grades and longer distances (especially for trucks), it was concluded that the existing route
represented the best feasible alignment.
Restoration Strategy for Unstable Vulcan Section
Given the prevailing instability along the Vulcan Section of the existing route (3.8 kIn), it was decided
that a supplementary and comprehensive investigation of this section was required. This investigation
will assess the range of engineering strategies (including full staging and deferral approaches) suitable
to cope with the geotechnical and hydraulic conditions along the Vulcan Section and their dynamic
nature. Accordingly, treatment of this Vulcan Section is expected to be deferred at least until Phase 2 of
the Program. On this basis, the cost-benefit analysis was focused on three "views" of the road: the lirst
was concerned with the two sections at each end, excluding the Vulcan Section; the second addressed
the Vulcan Section, by making the assumption that its construction would be warranted five years after
commencing the other two sections; the third view covered the entire road. These three views provlde
an overall perspective of the road's evaluation. An output of this investigation is a monitoring prog-am,
which will guide the timing of capital works, based on the least expected total social costs. This
involves a balance between declining risks of instability and increasing road user and road infrastru,t:ure
life cycle costs.
Main Assumptions
Period of Analysis          :      20 years
Commencement/ Base year    :       2000
Traffic Growth              :      3.0% p.a., 1999 -. 2003
Forecasts                   :      2.0% p.a., 2004 - 2018
Real Discount Rate          :      12% p.a.
Residual Value              :      zero
In addition, assumptions included: adoption of minimal periodic maintenance (patching) and routin:'
maintenance as the base or "do nothing" alternative (for the selected alignment); valuation of travel tiine
at 50 per cent and 25 per cent at the urban skilled wage rate (US$1.93 per hour) for work and non-wvrk
time, respectively. Accident data were inadequate and there is no explicit country guidance on
valuations of statistical fatalities/injuries. Therefore, estimates of accident savings were not establis-Led;
this understates the benefits of rehabilitation (for which design speed was not increased).
Methodology
The cost analysis for the road sections made conventional use of the HDM-III model except for the
special treatment of risks. This model provides for adjustment of financial costs and benefits (by nel;ir.g
out associated taxes) to economic values. Initially the analysis focused on the entire road, including the
Vulcan Section and its exposure to the risks of extreme flooding and future volcanic eruptions. With the
decision to undertake an in-depth site investigation and formulate a risk management strategy, the
HDM-III analysis was focused on the remaining two sections of the road - and an assessment of the ir
immediate rehabilitation.



43
Results
A summary of the cost benefit analysis results is presented in Table A4.9.
Table A4.9: PNG, Rabaul - Kokopo Road Economic Cost Benefit Analysis Summary (US$)
Present Values (1), (2):                       Two Sections   Vulcan Section  All Sections(4)
(All figures in US$ million, 1998 prices)       (Phase 1)          Only(3)
[Present is Year [Present is Year [Present is Year
2005]             2005]             2000]
Road Capital Costs                                 7.6                3.7               9.8
Road Maintenance Costs                             -0.3              -0.3              -0.4
Total Road costs                                  7.3               3.4               9.4
VOC Savings
Existing Traffic                                 11.7                5               14.5
Generated Traffic                                0.9                0.2               1.1
Time Savings
Existing Traffic                                 0.9                0.6               1.2
Generated Traffic                                0.1                0.1               0.1
Total User Benefits                                13.6              5.9               16.9
Net Benefits (NPV)                                 6.1               2.6               7.5
Internal Rate of Return, %                         20.1              21.9               20.4
Source. GRA and ENB Appraisal Report, 1998.
Notes: (1) Present values based on 12 per cent discount rate and 20 year period for all sections.
(2) Differences in costs and benefits relative to the base altemative of minimal maintenance treatment.
(3) Civil works for Vulcan Section assumed to coummence in Year 2005. Actual date will depend on
monitoring of terrain stability. Present value is as of Year 2005.
(4) Present values for "All Sections" is as of Year 1999 and is less than the sum of present values
of Phase I Sections and Vulcan Section as Vulcan Section is not commenced until
Year 2005. (Net Present Value of Vulcan Section, as of Year 2000 is US$1.4 million.)
Substantial net present values and IRRs are demonstratedfor rehabilitation/restoration of the road.
These results still hold if time savings and generated traffic benefits are not included. The main source
of benefits is vehicle operating cost savings to road users. For the two sections of the road proposed for
commencement in the first year of Phase 1, in present value terms, total user benefits are US$13.6
million and road infrastructure cost outlays US$7.2 million, i.e., a net economic contribution of US$6.1
million. The corresponding IRR is 20.1 per cent. The analysis also demonstrates the value of restoring
the Vulcan Section, when adequate stability of the terrain is established. (Indeed the estimated net
present value gains for the 3.8 km of the Vulcan Section at US$684,000 per km exceed significantly the
gains for the other two sections at US$290,000 per km.) Moreover, the estimated gains for the Vulcan
Section are likely to be conservative as vehicle operating costs in the HDM-Ill model are not fully
calibrated for the high degree of abrasive pumice dust - which increases vehicle maintenance costs as
well as discomfort and accident vulnerability. Finally, it should be noted that the main risk fromfuture



44
volcanic activity is to the Vulcan Section. However, the estimated "return period" is 50 years, whii: h is
more than double the planning period of 20 years adopted here. Given the high present environment
disbenefits of alternative routes and a discount rate of 12 per cent, the expected costs of future road
infrastructure loss are small.
Sensitivity of Results
Switching values for the two sections of the road proposed for Phase 1 indicate that the substantial Fiet
present value gains are robust: a construction cost increase of 81 per cent from US$7.6 million to
US$13.8 million is required to reduce the NPV to zero. Also, the NPV remains positive (at UJS$l.1 L
million) even if traffic growth is zero. Although there is significant uncertainty in the timing and c: st of
full restoration of the Vulcan Section, restoration of the outer two sections as proposed in Phase 1 zi;
warranted now, even if the existing " holding strategy" treatment (with improved regular grading) 3f
the Vulcan Section is extended in the future. While resource costs, especially vehicle operating cos;:s are
substantially higher under the "holding strategy", they (and environmental costs) would be even hig;her
by the alternative routes via the escarpment.
There is some question about appropriate adjustment for labor costs in PNG; but there is no firm basis
upon which to estimate the average shadow wage - notably for employment of domestic labor in road
construction and maintenance. But, since the shadow wage is most likely to lower costs relative to
benefits, the present results may be regarded as conservative; lower costs would increase the net present
value of the proposed components.
Economic and Financial Sustainability
The real resource savings in vehicle operating costs to road users are predominately out-of-pocket
expenses - and indeed the privatefinancial savings to users exceed the social economic cost savings
due to taxes on inputs (fuel, spares, etc.). Therefore, users could be expected to be willing to pay aW,
amount up to these savings in exchange for assured improved road conditions. Since the tota.l cost oJf
the road rehabilitation is less than these savings, there is a prima facie case for financial as well as
economic sustainability. The vehicle operating cost savings per vehicle trip (between Rabau]l and
Kokopo), and per vehicle per year, are illustrated in Figure A4. 10. (Trips per year are approximatel y
the same for each class of vehicle types.)



45
Figure A4.10: PNG, Rabaul-Kokopo Road Vehicle Operating Cost
Savings,
3.6        1,084         -10
m _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1 v000 
3.0
Articulated
t                                     . Ist~~~~~~~~~~~~~uck             =
o  2.0
>      2.0                        1.1       32                            -500
1.0                                                                           >
0.7       205       Ti-k
PMV
(4,097; 85%)   (670; 14%)       (33; 1%)
|Note: The figures in parenthesis indicate AADT estimates by vehicle type 
|   and percentage composition of vehicle types.l
Thus, for example, on the basis of estimated vehicle operating cost savings, operators of cars/pick-
ups/PMV could be expected to be willing to pay up to US$205 per year for a rehabilitated Rabaul -
Kokopo road.
Prospects for Cost Recovery
Vehicle operating cost savings for groups of vehicle types, together with, existing vehicle annual
registration fees levied by the ENB Provincial Administration, and estimated annual total maintenance
costs for the road, are set out in Table A4- 11. No attempt has been made to assign total maintenance
costs to groups of vehicle types, although clearly heavy and articulated trucks have a substantially
higher attributable road maintenance cost.



46
Table A4.1 1: PNG, Rabaul - Kokopo Road Vehicle Operating Cost Savings (US$) (1)
Vehicle Group
PMV, Pick-Up   Medium, Light   Articulated           All/
Cars          Truck, Bus    Heavy Truck  [Average]
VOC Savings per trip                       0.7               1.1             3.6         [0.75]
VOC Savings per year                      205               326             1,084         [22E,]
(Per Vehicle in use)
Vehicle Stock
Registered(5)                      2,357              987              156         4,01.4
Observed on Road(2)                4,097              670              33          4,8U0
Total VOC Savings per year
(for each vehicle group)                839,885           218,420          35,772      1,094077
Road Maintenance
Annual Total Cost
Two Sections (21.03 Km)                 -                 -                -         49,21 t2
Entire Road (24.82 Km)                  -                 -                -         62,680
Vehicle Registration Fees
Current(3)                               70           80, 20 (Bus)         160          n.a.
Possible Revised(4)                      85           100, 25 (Bus)        210          n.a
Source: GRA and ENB Appraisal Report, 1998
Notes: (1) In 1998 prices.
(2) This figure may include some multiple trips by the same vehicle.
(3) Registration fee depends on vehicle type and size. (See Table A4.7). Figure here is approximate
average and provides an indicator value only.
(4) Revised fee based on approximately 21% increase to generate additional revenue of approximately
US$65,000 per year to cover the estimated annual maintenance cost of the Rabaul-Kokopo LRoad
(US$62,680).
(5) Preliminary figures.
However, if all vehicles were treated equally, and each vehicle is assumed to make approximately 3)0
round-trips per year, then for the 2,400 distinct vehicles estimated to be using the road, averaged acarss
all vehicle types, the average annual maintenance cost is US$20.5 and US$26.1 per vehicle, for the :wo
sections in Phase I and the whole road, respectively. Existing motor vehicle registration fees and
preliminary data on registered vehicle numbers are set out in Table A4-12.



47
Table A4.12: PNG, ENB Province - Motor Vehicle Registration Fees, 1997
Number
Vehicle Type           Registered   Fee (Kina)(l)
Motor Cars/Pick-Up/PMV            n.a.
0 - 1,300 cc                                 88
1,300 - 2,000 cc                            103
2,001 - 4,000 cc                            147
4,001 -                                     250
Pick-Up/PMV                  2,357
Trucks
Light/Medium                     485
0 - 2 tonne                                103
2-3  "                                     147
3 -6  "                                    150
6-8  "                                     180
8- 10 "                                    200
Heavy/Articulated                            200 + 25
per tonne
over 10 tonne
Buses
PMV (0 - 20 pax)             514             10
Medium (21 -  )               502           20
Total                             4,014           -
Source: ENB Provincial Government
(Schedule 10, Motor Traffic Statute, Amended)
Notes: (1) Revenue from vehicle registration fees in 1997 were K642,000
While there are insufficient data for the number of vehicles in each vehicle type, it is possible to
establish the approximate increment in vehicle registration fees alone, that would cover maintenance of
this particular road - as the major road link in the Province. Provincial revenue from vehicle
registration fees in 1997 was K642,000 or US$291,818. Thus, the estimated annual maintenance for the
whole road at US$62,680, represents an increase in vehicle registration fees of approximately 21%.
(Demand for vehicle registration may be regarded as inelastic, especially in net terms.) Using this
average increase as a guide, a set of possible revised registration fees, as averages for groups of vehicle
types, is set out in Table A4-13. The increases vary from US$15 for PMV, Pick-Up and Car (21%) to
US$50 for Heavy and Articulated Trucks (31%). These possible registration fee increases are
indicative - they illustrate the prospects for full cost recovery from users for long-term road
maintenance - for this one major road. Based on the available figures for total registered vehicles in the
Province, the estimated increase in revenue is US$73,155.
Finally, the net gains to users of the Rabaul - Kokopo Road after these indicative increases in
vehicle registration fees can be seen in Figure A4-13.



48
Figure A4.13: PNG, Rabaul - Kokopo Road -- Comparison of
Savings and Registration Fees by Vehicle Group, 1998
1,084
1,000
voc
11    Current Registration Fee
Indicative Increase in
Registration Fee
(All per
400
326
300
210
205
200
10016
100                 85            M 
Car, PMV      Light-             Heavy
Pick-Up       Medium             Truc:ks
Truck, Bus         Articulated



49
The net gains per annum, averaged within groups of vehicle types, are:
Car, PMV, Pick-Up          :     US$120
Light-Medium Truck, Bus    :     US$226
Heavy/Articulated Truck    :      US$874
While it is important to recognize that these net gains are associated with the maintenance costs of one
road, they reveal a rational basis for user motivation and partnership in securing the long-term financial
sustainability for maintenance of the key road link.
Risks
Two kinds of risk dominate others for this road: physical/geotechnic risk associated with the Vulcan
Section - this is being addressed by an in-depth investigation that will be conducted early in Phase 1 -
and financial risk associated with the lack of funding from the National Government for adequate
maintenance of the country's most important national roads. It is essential that this road maintenance
financing risk be addressed upfront as a condition ofproject negotiations. A credibleform of
commitment by the National Government to an adequate and sustainablefinancial arrangement with
the ENB Provincial Administration will be necessary and has been agreed.



50
B. Warangoi Road Rehabilitation
Summary of Cost Benefit Analysis
An assessment was made of three separate sections (A, B, and C) of this road as the existing condition
varies from good to very poor. Assessment was conducted using the HDM-III model. Main
characteristics and assumptions were:
Road Section
A                 B                 C
Length (knn)                      3.5                7.5              1.0
Existing pavement                seal              seal       gravel sogments
Condition (Aug. '98)          Variable           Variable         Very Poor
(Good to Fair)    (Good to Fair)
Traffic Level (AADT)            1,003              964               964
Growth Rate                                  Same all sections
Car, Pick-Up, Bus:    2.7%,1998 - 2005
2.9%,2006 - 2017
All Trucks:          2.0%,1998 - 2005
2.2%,2006 - 2017
Reseal and                             1
Maintenance Costs (US$)      61,204         231,711              41,136
Planning Period           Same for all sections: 20 years
Base Alternative          Same for all sections: minimal patching
Discount Rate              Same for all sections: 12%
NPV (US$ '000) and IRR
for Alternative Timing
of Reseal Strategy:
Year 1                   32.7; 16.6%    80.9; 16.5%
Year 6                   56.8; 29.8%    114.1 ; 20.6%         (not used)
Year 8                   38.6; 29.1%    82.3; 19.7%           (not used)
Best Timing                 Year 6*         Year 6*              Year 1
While the cost benefit analysis indicates that resealing of Section C should be undertaken at the
beginning of Phase 1 and that Sections A and B should be deferred until Phase 2 of the Program, the
rate of pavement deterioration for these sections may exceed the "normal" rate assumed in the: HDM IlII
analysis. Therefore, regular monitoring of the pavement condition of Sections A and B will be
conducted during Phase 1. The timing of the reseal for Sections A and B will also be influenced by
economies of scale in resealing all sections at the same time. Therefore, reassessment of the tIming,I'2r
Sections A and B will be made during Phase 1.



51
Risks
The Warangoi Road is also classified as a national road. The main risk is inadequate financial
support for maintenance of the road, as evidenced by the large short falls in funding for national
road maintenance in recent years. Accordingly, sustainability of the improved condition for the
road, as with the Rabaul-Kokopo Road, hinges on the transfer of responsibility andfundingfor
maintenancefrom the National DOW to ENBPA.



52
Annex 5
Second Gazelle Restoration project
Financial Summary
(K million)
Imnplementation                    Operational Period
L                  l      Period
1999-   2001-    1999      2000    2001   2002   2003   2004  2005
2002    2005
Project Costs
Phase I
Investment Costs    105.9
Recurrent Costs                      0.25      1.85     2.3    2.3    2.3    2.3   2.3
Total
Phase II
Investment Costs             79.0
Recurrent Costs                                                       0.35    0.5   0.6
Total
Financing Sources
(% of total project
costs)
IBRD/IDA         67.6    40.5      0.25     0.25    0.25   0.25
Co-financiers
AusAID          0.1
European Union      7.8
ADB            0.4
Government
Central         15.0    19.2                       0.15   0.15   0.15   0.15   0.15
Local          15.0     19.2              1.60    2.10   1.90   2.50   2.70   2.80
Total         105.9    65.0    0.25       1.85    2.30   2.30   2.65   2.85   2,95
Main assumptions:
The financing plan for the first phase Medium-Term Restoration Program (MTRP) is predicated on
participation by the European Union for rural education and water supply, development of the rural
relocation sites and fresh food markets for Rabaul and Kokopo (included at $3 million equivalent), ar: 1
by AusAID for a study of Air Quality in Rabaul, included at $40,000 equivalent. The ADB is already
financing a Head quarters facility in kokopo for Women's Groups. For its part, GoPNG has indicated ts
commitment to the project and will provide about $10 million equivalent during the first phase MTR}'. It
has also been agreed that the Provincial Government will contribute about $6 million equivalent to thi:
financing plan from its own (VAT) resources.



53
Post implementation O&M expenditures for the first phase MTRP are expected to be relatively modest
and, notwithstanding budgetary constraints at all levels of government, are expected to be manageable by
responsible agencies. They relate primarily to maintenance of port protection works for the National
Harbors Board and of ENBPA wharves rehabilitated under the project; incremental operational costs of
ENBPA health and educational facilities restored or expanded as well as district markets and sports
facilities and basic services in relocation sites. Some project works, such as the erosion control, seeding
and drainage works in Rabaul, are intended to reduce future maintenance expenditures by the responsible
local level government. Agreement has been reached for DOW to transfer to ENBPA responsibility and
funding for maintenance on the Rabaul/Kokopo Road to be rehabilitated under the project. ENBPA has
recently approved a policy to commercialize the provincial port facilities at Ah Tam and Dawapia that are
to be rehabilitated during the first phase MTRP. In accordance with long-standing ENBPA policies,
maintenance of markets and sports facilities will be covered by stakeholder fees and concession
agreements with sports associations
The second phase MTRP will increase O&M expenditures somewhat as additional roadworks and health
and education facilities are completed, water supply and environmental sanitation services are provided,
including in the relocation sites and more of the government administration center is completed. Whilst
national government budgetary constraints are particularly severe at present in the aftermath of the 1997
drought and frost, which sharply reduced earnings and government revenues on primary export
commodities, these constraints are expected to ease somewhat by the time national government public
safety facilities for police and the fire service and for the new volcano observatory are completed around
2002.
Overall Investment Program
Total investments under the Immediate-Term Restoration Program (ITRP) implemented immediately
following the eruption, amounted to some K140 million (US$60 million equivalent in 1998 prices).
Investments under the MTRP are estimated at a further K 170 million (US$60 million at 1999 prices.
Whilst this is significantly less than the estimated cost of damage to government services and facilities, it
nevertheless represents a considerable investment. It is, therefore necessary to ensure that the proposed
program is not scaled at such a level as to leave an unsustainable fiscal legacy on responsible agencies.
A significant array of infrastructure assets and services being restored fall under national government
management (such as various major roads, Tokua Airport, some education facilities and health facilities).
Similarly, electricity, telephones and water utilities within the province are managed by national
enterprises. However, ENBPA, or its constituent local level governments will become responsible for
operation and maintenance of a major share of infrastructure and facilities created through the project as
well as under the ongoing Immediate Term Restoration Program (ITRP). The fiscal capacity of ENBPA
to meet these obligations is, therefore of considerable importance.
The Fiscal capacity of East New Britain Provincial Government (ENBPA).
The fiscal capacity of ENBPA to meet these obligations is, therefore of considerable importance,
particularly in light of shifting National, Provincial and Local Level Government fiscal arrangements
resulting from implementation of the 1995 Organic Law on Provincial Governments and Local Level
Governments (the New Organic Law, replacing the earlier 1977 Organic Law on Provincial
Governments). A further major fiscal capacity issue especially impacting on Provincial Governments at
this time is the introduction, on July 1, 1999, of the Value Added Tax (VAT) to replace the Provincial
Government sales tax, which was ENBPA's principal local revenue source.



54
Infrastructure Maintenance: East New Britain has a longstanding reputation for well-maintained
infrastructure and public facilities, much of which was destroyed during the 1994 eruption.
Notwithstanding the estimated 50 percent reduction in provincial government internal revenues and the
shift in expenditures to restoration activities, Table 1: below indicates a sustained commitment to
maintenance, which at K4.10 million in 1998, was almost back to pre-eruption levels in real terms. IFor
1999, ENBPA has allocated a higher share of its overall budget to maintenance, particular for provir cial
roads.
Table 1: East New Britain Provincial Government Maintenance Expenditures, 1993-1998
1998  1997  1996  1995  1994  1993
Est.  ----------------Actual--------------------
(K millions)
A. Maintenance and Upgrading of Roads and Bridges
Routine Maintenance & Rehabilitation         2.04   0.92   1.16   1.28   0.90   1.25
UpgradingandResealing                        2.06          0.12   1.61   2.17   1.66
TOTAL                                        4.10'  0.92   1.28   2.89   3.07   2.91
Total Adjusted for Inflation (1998 prices)   (4.10) (0.98) (1.49) (3.90) (4.24) (4.26)
B. Government Buildings                       1.98   2.94   0.16   0.38   1.51   0.88
Adjusted for Inflation (1998 prices)        (1.98) (3.13) (0.19) (0.51) (2.08) (1.29)
Maintenance as % of Total ENBPA Budget                            15%   17%   16%
Source: ENBPA
Due ito the good performance of key agricultural exports, local revenues have grown sharply in recent
years, enabling ENBPA to significantly increase maintenance expenditures. Indeed, almost 30 percenil of
these locally generated revenues were allocated to maintenance expenditures as compared to about 5C
percent to administration and capital outlays. Thus, almost 90 percent (K3.6 million) of total mainten nce
expenditures in 1998 were financed from ENBPA locally generated revenues, demonstrating the
provincial Government's abiding commitment to maintenance funding. Even so, funding for road
maintenance in 1998 falls well short (by over 40 percent) of engineering estimates of needs. Indeed,
additional annualized expenditures for routine and periodic maintenance for provincial roads and brid ges
is estimated at about K1.6 million, including for roads restored under the project.
Education: East New Britain has long attached a high priority to education and all levels of governme:It
together with churches and private groups are involved. With a reported 73 percent adult literacy rate,
compared to the national average 45 percent, East New Britain ranked behind only the National Capital
District and Milne Bay Province prior to the 1994 eruption. Not surprisingly, educational expenditures
account for a significant proportion of total ENBPA budget resources - K12.4 million (45%) in 1997, ;ind
K12.9 million (39%) in 1998.
Education facilities are funded by a broad mix of school fees; payments and subsidies by government;
community find-raising activities; donations from the private sector; and various other means. Provinc::ial



55
Government generally maintains Provincial High Schools and Vocational Centers. Primary Schools are
generally maintained by the local communities directly.
Table 2: below indicates that estimated additional full year cost of staffing, maintenance, etc. of new or
expanded schools included in the project, fall well within the fees expected to be generated:
Table 2: Incremental Operation and Maintenance Costs of Education Facilities under MTRP
Staffing and   Maintenance       School Fees
Admin K000s        KOOOs            KOOOs
a) Utmai High School Stages II, III & IV   160              10               205
b) Malabunga High School Upgrading         295              33               470
c) Vuvu High School/Kabaleo Teachers       200              15               168
College Relocation
d) New kokopo Community School              55              10               84
e) St Joseph's Malaguna Community           55              10               50
School
f) Sikut/Matupit Community School           55              10               83
g) St. Martin's Community School            55              10               96
h) Sikut/Talwat Community School St. II     55              10               73
i) Warangoi Community School                81              15               123
Upgrading
j) Kabaleo Vocational Center Upgrading      91              15               82
k) Vunapalading Community School            90              15               222
Upgrading
TOTAL                       1192             153              1656
Source: ENBPA, Division of Health
Health: East New Britain had developed an impressive system of health services to cater for both the
urban and rural population. As a result, Social indicators in the health field for the Province are
comparatively good: Male life expectancy is 57.3 years (compared to the national average of 52.2);
Female life expectancy is 55.5 years (compared to the national average of 51.4); and the infant mortality
rate is 58 per 1,000 births (30% lower than the national average). There was a significant negative impact
on health indicators in 1994 following the volcanic eruption, in particular family health indicators
(maternal health; reporting; family planning; clinic attendance; immunization). However, relevant
statistics have shown a gradual improvement in health indicators in subsequent years to 1997. Health
service expenditures continue to account for a significant proportion of total ENBPA budget resources -
K2.8 million (10%) in 1997, and K4.2 million (13%) in 1998. Table 3: below indicates the relatively
modest estimated additional full year cost of about KO.3 million for staffing, maintenance, etc. of new or
rehabilitated health facilities included in the project:



56
Table 3: Incremental Operation and Maintenance Costs of Health Facilities under MTRI'
Staffing and     Maintenance
Admin KO00s         K000s
a) Rabaul Town Clinic                      55                15
b) Kerevat health Center Upgrading Ph.     55                10
I
c) Warangoi health Center Upgrading        55                15
Ph. I
d) Gelagela Aid Post                       40                10
e) Sigut Aid Post (Ph. II)                 40                10
TOTAL                        245               60
Source: ENBPA, Division of Health
ENBPA Sources of Funding: Whilst the overall estimated impact of road maintenance, education and
health facilities, at a full year cost of around K3.9 million, is substantial, it does not appear to impose an
unmanageable fiscal burden on the Provincial Government which was able to increase the budget by
aroumd K5 million between 1997-1998, almost entirely from internal revenue sources. Even allowing for
an element of inflation, ENBPA has the fiscal capacity to sabsorb the estimated increase in 0 <E M co sts
arising from the restoration program in the Gazelle region. Indeed, even without continued good growth
in local revenues, there appears to be scope for adjusting expenditure priorities. For example, investnent
expenditures outside of the GRA program that increased by K2.2 million between 1997 and 1998 could
be scaled back should there exist a shortfall in funding for ongoing 0 & M arising from the Gazelle
Restoration Program.
Notwithstanding the growth in locally generated tax revenues, the broad fiscal outlook for the Provinicial
Government is clouded by uncertainties regarding the introduction of VAT, which replaced Provincial
sales taxes, as well as general fiscal difficulties of the National Government. National Government
transfers now finance almost three-quarters of total provincial expenditures. With the introduction o-'
VAT, national government transfers will finance well over 90 percent of all provincial expenditures.
The new system took effect from 1 July 1999, with various arrangements in place to cater for Iransitional
issues. The proposed VAT rate is 10% to replace Provincial sales taxes (around 3%) and approximat-.ly
11% import duties. The Provincial Government expects to receive K9.0 million from VAT in 1999 - in
amount equivalent to its receipts from Provincial sales taxes in 1998, adjusted for an estimated 20%
inflation. From 2000, the Provincial Government will receive a share from the national VAT tax take
broadly in line with the amount of VAT generated in the lProvince (known as the "destination principl e').
At this time, there are no detailed estimates of revenues this would yield to East New Britain. However,
the Inland Revenue Commission and the National Department of Finance consider that East New Bri lain
will benefit from this arrangement. Overall, the change is expected to have a neutral effect on the
economy, in terms of price level impacts, although it will affect the prices of some items (e.g. import )
more than others.



57
Table 4: East New Britain Provincial Government Budget, 1997-1999
Kina million
1997                 1998
Actual                Est.
National Governmment Grants         27.00      73%       33.00       72%
A. Recurrent Grants                                      22.70       49%
B. Narional Development Grants 1/                        10.30       22%
Provincial internal Revenue          9.80      27%       13.00       28%
Provincial Taxation                 6.30       17%       7.50       16%
Provincial Licences and Fees        0.80        2%       0.90        2%
Commercial Earnings                 0.40        1%       0.40        1%
Other Receipts                       2.30        6%       4.20        9%
TOTAL BUDGET                        36.80                46.00
1/ excludes allocations for GRA - K20.1 in 1997, K16 million in 1998
Source: GoENB
All revenue collected from the VAT is paid into a trust account in the Central Bank, and Provincial
Governments have first call on the funds after VAT refunds are paid. Even so, there is considerable
uncertainty in light of experience implementing the fiscal transfers since the New Organic law was
introduced in 1995. To date, flows to ENBPA have been reasonably timely.
Moreover, under the New Organic Law, the legal ability of provinces to establish new revenue sources is
now unclear. For example, the new Sales and Services Tax introduced on 1 April 1998 by Morobe
Province has subsequently been ruled "illegal" by the Provincial Affairs Minister responsible for
interpreting the New Organic Law. However, under Section 89 of the New Organic Law, a Provincial
Government "may impose other taxes, fees or charges," provided "prior written approval" has been
obtained from the Commissioner General of Internal Revenue.
Among a number of options under consideration by ENBPA is a Provincial Road User tax. There are
strong indications of willingness to pay by road users who are presently suffering high vehicle repair
costs due to the poor and deteriorating road conditions in the Gazelle Peninsula. Table 5 below indicates
that with minor changes in rates at which fees and charges are levied, significant additional revenue could
be generated.



58
Table 5: East New Britain Revenue from Fuel Tax, Vehicle Registration Fees, Driver License Fees
1993 To 1998
(KOO0s)
Revenue Source           1993    1994       1995      1996      1997       1998
(Act.)  (Act.)    (Act.)    (Act.)    (Act.)    (Est.)
Fuel Tax                1,083.9  898.1     481.3      797.3     787.4     871.8
Vehicle Registration    589.9   521.8      486.0     556.2     642.0      650.0
Driver Licenses         148.6   125.9      164.7     148.4      138.7     140.0
Total                  1,822.4  1,545.8   1,132.0   1,501.9   1,568.1   1,661.8
Source: Provincial Tax Office
Commercializing Operations to improve Cost Recovery: ENBPA has, for many years, embraced the
philosophy of partial cost recovery, even in sectors considered non-commercial such as healthl and
education. All major commercial activities have traditionally been carried out by corporate entities Lnder
the aegis of its business arm - the profitable East New Britain Development Corporation. The Provincial
Government's wharves at Ah Tam and Dawapia are well used by inter-island cargo and fishing vessels.
However, port fees generated only modest revenues and the facilities have deteriorated for lack of
maintenance. ENBPA has approved a new policy for full cost recovery (capital and O&M costs) of all
commercial activities of the Provincial Government. Wharfage charges at KI.50 per ton and berthagz
charges at KO.1 per hour per meter of ship length would generate K125,000 annually for ENBPA, but are
likely to have a negligible impact on ship operators costs. Projections indicate that these port Iaciliti,. s can
generate net positive revenue flows by the fifth year following rehabilitation. To strengthen these
prospects, ENBPA has negotiated a management contract for these facilities with a local business
enterprise and net income is already significantly higher.
Water Supply and Sanitation
The major water supply improvements will be made during the first phase at the new Baliora Township),
and during the second phase at Kenebot subdivision in Kokopo. The Baliora scheme falls outside NAVE 's
servilce area. In view of the size and configuration of the scheme, however, NWB will review enginez ring
designs and help supervise implementation. In addition, ENBPA has proposed to extend the mainten.nce
contract with NWB already in place for a number of settlements and key education and health facilit:. -s in
the Gazelle Peninsula. The Kenebot scheme falls within the existing service area of the National Wa: -r
Board (NWB), which would design and supervise implementation.
NW13 is presently expanding and upgrading its facilities and reticulation system in the foreshore area
from Kokopo to Takubar with financing from the Asian Development Bank. Although additional deep
wells are proposed to serve Kenebot, the substantial additional consumer base expected to start occulpying
the 800 residential plots in the area should strengthen the financial viability of NWB's Kokopci service
area operations. NWB is reporting much improved financial performance since tariffs were increasec in.
1997 following termination of national government operating subsidies.



59
For Baliora, ENBPA proposes to levy flat tariffs which vary by plot size and projects positive, net
revenue flows in the third year after O&M costs of NWB are met.
Maintenance of National Roads
Restoring the Rabaul/Kokopo road corridor is amongst the most urgent of works under the MTRP and
will be implemented during the first phase. Overall Investment expenditures are estimated at K23.5
million (including design and supervision costs. Annual maintenance costs on this road corridor
following completion of the works are expected to amount to KO.4 million. About 50 percent of this
relates to a 4 km. Section along Mt. Vulcan, where unstable ground conditions indicate that the proposed
major restoration works should be deferred at this time, and regular responsive maintenance applied until
intensive monitoring indicates that it is appropriate to make that investment.
Funding of maintenance operations on national roads has become an intractable problem and effective
planning of maintenance operations is virtually impossible. Total funding allocated for maintenance of
national roads in East New Britan Province in recent years has averaged K720,000 per annum for the 215
km of national roads in the province (i.e. only K3.350 per Km).
Reliance on the National DOW to ensure adequate maintenance of the Rabaul/Kokopo Road therefore
raises unmanageable risks that would undercut the sustainability of benefits from a key project
component and economic asset in the Gazelle Peninsula. A contractual agreement has be reached for the
responsibility for management of maintenance operations on the Rabaul/kokopo Road to be delegated by
DOW to ENIBPA. In support of this approach, financing has been included in the Bank Loan for
temporary special maintenance of the Mt. Vulcan section.



60
Annex 6
Second Gazelle Restoration Project
Procurement, Disbursement and Financial Management Arrangements
A. PROCUREMENT METHOD
Procurement of all works will follow the World Bank's Guidelines for Procurement of Wor::s
and Goods under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995 and revised in January
and August 1996; September, 1997 and January 1999 (to account for the introduction of the
EURO as a currency), and the "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997 and revised September 1997 and 1999 (also to
account for the introduction of the EURO). The World Bank's Standard Bidding Documents
and Contracts will be used, except for low value contracts with villagers and youth groups tc
be engaged in erosion control measures for which simple contract documents, earlier
accepted by the Bank, will be used.
All procurement under the Immediate-Term Restoration Program (ITRP), that was handled
by the Gazelle Restoration Authority /Project Implementation Unit (GRA/PIU), was found
highly satisfactory by the Bank. To avoid implementation delays under the ITRP, a special
Supply and Tenders Board (STB) was established that could approve contracts valued up to
Kl .5 million. Contracts of higher values had to be approved by the Government's Cental
Supply and Tenders Board (in Port Moresby). These arrangements will be continued under
the MTRP. The project's procurement plan is detailed in the Project Implementation P;lan
(PIP).
Agreement was also reached at negotiations on a Supplemental Letter to the Loan
Agreement under which GoPNG confirned that all procurement related decisions in
NG66/92 and NEC41/951 will not apply to Bank-financed contracts. Administration of
procurement of civil works, goods and consulting services will be mainly the responsibility
of GRA/PIU, assisted by ENBPA technical staff and other agencies as required.
Works
Civil works will, where possible, be packaged into contracts exceeding US$0.5 million
equivalent and procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). This should. also
attract interest from class A and B national contractors and provide an incentive for them to
Following the Bank's intervention on NEC's 1992 decision, the government (by letter from "OIDA")i
informed the Bank that the decision of 66/92 "applies only to contracts funded by the government. The Decision
included:
(i) the to reserve all construction contracts valued between Kl .0 and K5 million to citizen or national conmpanies;
(ii)  to reserve all construction contracts valued between K5 and K10 million to joint ventures and consorti am
groups where the overseas partner has a maximum of 50% share;
(iii) to open for general bidding only contracts valued above K IO million;
(iv) to award all consulting contracts of up to K100,000 to citizen companies only; and
(v)  that bidders (contractors or consultant firms) must be registered with the association of national contractors or
consultants in order to participate in bidding, which is not acceptable for ICB as it restricts competition.



61
invest in necessary equipment through the award of contracts of a longer duration. GRA/PIU
under the ITRP had substantial experience
with procurement of ICB and NCB contracts in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines and
use of the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs), and no difficulties are foreseen. In
1996/97 GRA/PIU handled many relatively low-value procurement contracts totaling K2.8
million (then US$2.0 million equivalent) per month, and should have no difficulty in
handling the foreseen volume of contracts under GRP 2, which are fewer and individually of
higher value.
Because of the size of contracts, their geographical scattering, a substantial number of civil
works will be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures that are
open to foreign contractors and acceptable to the Bank. Here again, to provide an incentive
for domestic contractors to invest in necessary equipment NCB contracts would be packaged,
wherever possible, into larger contracts.
a) procurement of small contract works:
For contracts with an estimated value up to K80,000 million (US$30,000) and to an
aggregate of K800,000 (US$300,000 million) for erosion control measures in the caldera
and broadacre areas in Rabaul where redevelopment is prohibited will involve local youth
groups under small contracts.
b) procurement of civil work contracts (infrastructure and buildings):
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) for civil works contracts with an estimated value up to
K1.4 million (US$0.5 million) and to an aggregate of KI 1.5 million (US$4.2 million). NCB
contracts comprise:
i. port-related protection works              Ki.2 million (US$0.4 million)
ii. restoration and reconstruction of roads    K2.7 million (US$1.0 million)
iii. building and works for Essential Services  K3.4 million (US$1.3 million)
iv. building and works for social services     K4.0 million (US$1.5 million)
v. building and works for economic services    KO.2 million (US$0.06 million)
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for civil works contracts with an estimated value
above K1.35 million (US$0.5 million), and an aggregate of K65.9 million (US$24.4
million).
i. Port-related protection works - (I contract)  K3.0 million (US$1.1 million)
ii. restoration and reconstruction of roads (1 contract) K3 1.6 million (US$11.7 million)
iii. building and works for social services    K12.3 million (US$4.6 million)
iv. building and works for economic services   K4.4 million (US$1.6 million)
v. provincial govt./admin building (1 contract)*  K14.7 million (US$5.4 million)
(note: site preparation works for two out of the tree modules to be built in Phase l)



62
Goods
Goods amounting to K840,000 (US$3 10,000 equivalent) under the project including back-up
generators (for essential services: police, fire protection, health centers) and surveying
equipment will be procured under ICB procedures. Under the ITRP, GRA/PIU has had
substantial experience with selection of suppliers according to the Bank Guidelines and
including the use of Bank's SBDs and no difficulties are foreseen. National Competitive
Bidding procedures will be used for procurement of seedlings and an incinerator for the
Department of Agriculture (total cost amounting to K325,000 (US$120,000 equivalent).
Consultants Services
Consultants for implementation support and studies will be selected in accordance with the
Bank's "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers," dated September 1997. Consultants services for engineering designs and
supervision of activities under Phase I and design work for projects under Phase II, estimated
at K6.8 million (US$2.5 million), will be contracted using mainly quality and cost ba,ed
selection (QCBS). Some highly specialized services - extension services and development cif
alternative economic activities as well as economic and development planning studies,
estimated at K5.3 million (US$2.0 million), will be contracted on a quality-based selection
(QBS). GRA/PIU under the ITRP had substantial experience with selection of consuliants in
accordance with the Bank Guidelines and the use of Bank's Standard Contracts and noD
difficulties are foreseen. for studies,
GRA/PIU staff will organize workshops and seminars to train staff of the provincial
administration (ENBPA) and other agencies, as required, in the use of the Bank's Guidelines
for Procurement of Goods, Works and Services and the use of the Bank's SBDs.
Prior Review Thresholds
Based on GRA/PIU's satisfactory experience under the ITRP, and in accordance with
Appendix 1 of the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, prior
review by the Bank will include the following:
a) all civil works estimated to cost the equivalent. of US$500,000 or above;
b) civil works for water supply and sanitation/sewerage subprojects estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$ 100,000 or above; and
c) goods and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of US$30,000 or above.
In accordance with Appendix 1 of the Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants:
a) with respect to TOR and shortlists for each contract for consulting firms estimated to
cost the equivalent of US$ 100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of
US$200,000;
b) with respect to TOR, shortlists and bid evaluation for each contract for consulting firms
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more, and each contract for the
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 OI
more;
c) single-source selection notwithstanding the contract value; and
d) modifications to contracts, notwithstanding the contract value.



63
The above will result in prior review of about 65 percent of all contracts. A systematic
post-review will be carried out during the planned 2 annual project supervision missions
resulting in Bank review of about 75 percent of all contracts.
B. DISBURSEMENTS
Allocation of loan proceeds
The allocation of loan proceeds is shown in Table C
Bank's Special Account (SA) and Executing Agency Trust Account (EATA):
In order to expedite and facilitate disbursements, a Special Account (SA), to which GRA would
have direct access, with an initial deposit of US$1.5 million equivalent would be established in
the Bank of Papua New Guinea (BPNG).
GoPNG will establish, prior to Loan Effectiveness, an Executing Agency Trust Account
(EATA) in the name of the GRA in Kokopo (ENB) and will deposit an amount (estimated at
K2.5 million) to cover the full project funding needs for the first quarter of implementation and,
thereafter, will deposit quarterly, in advance, its respective share in project funding into the
EATA. The advances would be based on three monthly cash flow projections for the project.
Table 1: Schedule of Expected Disbursements
Cimuniative
Quarter ending    Disbursement  Disbursemnt     % of Lan
FY2000              Dec '99          1.8            1.8             7%
Mar '00          0.4            2.2            9%/0
Jun '00         1.5             3.6            14%
FY2001              Sept'00          1.1            4.7            19%
Dec'00           2.6            7.3            29%
Mar '01          2.2            9.5            38%
Jun'01          2.8            12.3            49%
FY2002              Sept '01         4.2            16.4           65%
Dec'01           3.5            19.9           790/o
Mar '02          2.9            22.8           900/%
Jun'02          0.8            23.6            94%
FY2003              Sept '02         0.6            24.2           96%
Dec'02           0.5            24.7           98%
Mar'03           0.4            25.1           990/%
Jun'03          0.2            25.3           1000/o
Phase I of the project is designed for implementation in 3-1/2 years and the Phase I loan can be
expected to be fully disbursed in 4 years. The predicted disbursement profile, though above the
standard disbursement profile for the country, reflects the satisfactory profile established under
the ITRP. In particular, the proposed profile is predicated on: i) introduction of the EATA into
which GoPNG would make quarterly deposits required for project implementation; ii)
continued good project management by the GRA/PIU staff; and iii) no critical land acquisition
is required for the project and ENBPA's excellent track record in handling land acquisition
issues. It should be noted that although counterpart funding was highly satisfactory under the



64
ITRP, present severe National Government budgetary constraints are likely to impose high
risks in terms of the adequacy and timeliness of National Government counterpart funding.
Statements of Expenses
Disbursements under the project will be made against full documentation of expenditures,
except for the following items, for which disbursement from the Special Account (SA) into the
EATA would be made on the basis of Statements of'Expenditures (SOEs):
a) civil works contracts under US$500,000;
b) contracts for supply of goods costing up to US$30,000; and
c) consultants' contracts, estimated to cost less than US$100,000 for firms, and less than
US$50,000 for individuals.
SOE records would be made available for review by the Bank and independent auditors.
C. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
Organization, Management and Internal Control Structure
As a statutory authority, the Gazelle Restoration Authority (GRA), which was established in
1995, is required to follow the Public Finances (Management) Act 1995. The internal
organization of the GRA has been structured to separate responsibilities for policy setting,
corporate planning and project approvals by the GRA Board from the engineering,
administration and financial management by the GRA-PIU. The GRA has authority to hire
and fire staff and all staff of the PIU are short-term contract employees, except for the Project
Manager position for which a senior public servant has been contracted on a longer-term
basis.
Under the ITRP, GRA established a Senior Management Group (SMG) to oversee the
functions of corporate policy, engineering and administration finance with equal attention.
This SMG also vetted all proposals relating to project design and implementation, corporate
management issues, financial management, and adrrministration matters.
The primary focus of the GRA during the ITRP was to rapidly implement agreed projects. As
a consequence, monitoring of progress of components focused primarily on engineering
issues and ensuring that contractors were providing the civil works and buildings to
acceptable construction standards on time and to budget. No systematic evaluation systems
were put in place to check that planned outcomes were being achieved in terms of socio-
economic or environmental impacts or wider planning considerations.
There are three aspects of Project Management for the MTRP that need to be designed
differently from arrangements prevailing under the ITRP; namely:
* management of inter-agency collaboration
* GRA internal management
* GRA engineering management.
These changes are necessary to ensure effective performance of the GRA/PIU for the broadet
objectives and range of restoration activities under the MTRP and new World Bank
requirements (e.g. loan withdrawal application arrangements).



65
Management of inter-agency collaboration: An umbrella Steering Committee made up of
stakeholder representatives from both the oversight agencies and from the collaborating/
implementing agencies will be established prior to loan effectiveness. The Steering
Committee will be set up under the auspices of the NPIO, which is the GoPNG agency
responsible for national oversight of the Development Budget and chaired (and supported) by
the GRA. The actual composition of participating agencies will depend upon the degree of
participation by oversight and implementing agencies in the MTRP.
The Steering Committee would meet quarterly to review the MTRP progress reports collated
from implementing agencies and resolve any issues arising from the implementation of the
Project. This mechanism would also facilitate the capture of restoration information from
independent agencies that might, otherwise, be unavailable. A Memorandum of Agreement
between GRA and participating agencies will detail institutional roles, responsibilities and
relationships and liaison officers will be appointed with each participating agency.
GRA internal management: With a view to optimizing potential benefits and minimizing
adverse effects of the Medium-Term Restoration Program (MTRP), the GRA structure and
staffing is being modified to strengthen planning, economic and financial, socio-economic
and environmental considerations affecting project proposals and required for effective
monitoring/evaluation of their implementation. Project monitoring and contract management
data will be maintained through a new computerized Project Accounting and Financial
Management System designed to ensure timely and comprehensive oversight and reporting
output.
The GRA will be managed by a Senior Management Group (SMG) which will meet weekly
under the chairmanship of the Project Manager as at present. The SMG will be expanded to
comprise the heads of Project Implementation, Corporate Policy and Administration/Finance
as well as advisers in planning, environmental and social analysis and the managing
contractor discussed below. Liaison between Project stakeholders will be maintained by the
Corporate Policy Function; between implementing agencies needing to synchronize activities
through the Planning Function; between the Project/GRA and the community or Project
constituents through the Appraisal/Evaluation Function, which will have the best-formed
links with such groups; and between funding, accounting and reporting entities through the
Administration/Finance Function.
GRA will prepare a Corporate Policy Document and Annual Operational Plans for the
remaining life of the GRA and including the wind-up arrangements to accompany the
transfer of responsibility for GRP II to the ENBPA. The corporate policy function will also
provide secretariat support for the MTRP Steering Committee and the GRA Board as well as
public relations. It is envisaged that a minimum of one officer with the support of an
Executive Officer would be sufficient to manage this function.
There were very few reported engineering failures that required redoing, mostly at
contractors' expense, during the ITRP. Even so, the small engineering staff in the GRA/PIU,
which includes one senior engineer, has become increasingly over-extended. In order to
improve the professional capacity of GRA and maintain high quality implementation, the
engineering function will be incorporated into a broader-based project implementation team
In addition, engineering tasks will be split between high and lower value contracts. For high
value contracts, preparation of bidding documentation and contract supervision will be
contracted out to a managing contractor. A further addition comprises a contracted
Independent Quality Surveyor who would be responsible for assessing the standard of the



66
procurement process from bidding documentation to selection of contractors and quality, cost
and progress of their work, and reporting directly to the Project Manager. This function
should be contracted out to an internationally recognized firm to ensure independence and
standard of excellence.
The Administration/Finance Function would continue to operate as at present althougph now
responsible for more systematic accounting and reporting for the MTRP as a whole in
addition to statutory reporting requirements of the GRA.
Accounting System and Procedures
Accounting and Project Monitoring Systems: Each project implementation agency will
maintain individual project accounts. The GRA will be responsible for consolidating these
accounts as well as maintaining accounts for components implemented by it. The current
accounting system in the GRA is manual and cash-based. Posting to project accounts is
contracted out to a local accounting company. The project monitoring system comprises a
manual updating of a spreadsheet following periodic Implementers' Meeting chaired by the
GRA which reviews progress on all current projects/contracts with relevant supervisors. Th;.s
system is independent of all other systems but is reconciled manually to the contract
management system. It is labor intensive, based upon a whole-of-life cycle without ainual
breakups or comparisons against short period targets/budgets and unable to generate cash
flow forecasts or customized reports suitable for higher-level reporting or for public
consumption.
The contract management system also involves manual updating of a spreadsheet for each current
contract for which contractor claims are assessed, adj asted as necessary and approved for
payments. The system is independent of all other systems but is reconciled manually to the
project monitoring system. Control files are independent for each contract and are labor intensil/ e
to search to extract data. Most importantly, the system requires manual recording of actual
payment details. Input is limited to claims assessment without facilities to record significant
events, timelines, notes, etc., which are held in hardcopy form in voluminous contract files.
Notwithstanding these limitations, project management and accounting has been satisfactoryl
in meeting the requirements of GoPNG and the Bank during the ITRP. Even so, GRA plans
to install a computerized system which integrates project management, contract and
procurement management, disbursements and cash flow management, general ledger
accounting and required reporting to GRA, ENBPA, GoPNG and the Bank. In addition, the
system will enable submission of annual budgets to GoPNG and reimbursement claims
and/or Special Account reconciliations to IBRD so as to guarantee a timely source of i%unds.
The planning, procurement and contract management components of this system are built or
a proven software, which has been adapted for internationally-assisted development projects
such as GRP 2. Of particular importance, addition of new donor agencies into the proj ect cain
be handled easily. Links between program control, contract management and general ledger
are seamless and no import/export data transfers are required. All procurement and contract
expenditures (in various currencies and at varying exchange rates) and monitorable outputs
can be linked to financing sources and cash flow forecasts can be generated for Bank
financing as well as for counterpart requirements. The proposed new project accounting and
financial management system is being designed to produce, amongst others, the following
monitoring reports: statements of expenditures and financing; contract expenditures; status o I
loan disbursements and expenditures; and cost and unit variances. The in-house accounting
skills will be upgraded to include a qualified accountant with technical skills in budgeting,



67
treasury management and financial reporting as well as by training by the vendor of the new
computerized Project Accounting and Financial Management System. For the first year of
project implementation, disbursements are intended to be made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures. At the end of the first year, a determination will be made on whether to adopt
disbursement procedures based on projected project expenditures under LACI. Finally, GRA
is considering to network its computers to improve productivity further.
An action plan for establishing a project accounting, financial management, monitoring and
reporting system satisfactory to the Bank has been agreed as follows:
Action                           Agency              Date
1. Draft contract for system design, installation and  GRA           August 31, 1999
support
2. Appointmnent of Project Accountant in GRA           GRA           December 1, 1999
3. Bank Review of contract award for system           IBRD           December 1, 1999
4. Consultant mobilization                          Consultants      January 15, 2000
5. Complete tailoring of system design for GRP 2 and  Consultants     March 31, 2000
formulation of staff training program
6. Complete installation of system design           Consultants       April 30, 2000
7. Preparation of project accounts and monitoring report  GRA          June 30, 2000
for GRA Management and Bank
8. Completion of system review and refresher training  Consultants/GRA 1  December 31, 2000
Audits: All documentation will be held on site and available for audit. Records will be kept in
such a manner that would facilitate inspection and linking to financial reports. The
component identification system developed during the ITRP will be retained to enable
transactions to be analyzed according to funding source, project sector, individual project
component, and type of procurement and a translator system will be established to convert in-
house numbering systems of participating agencies into the GRA's numbering system so as
to retain an audit trail between the GRA and other agencies' internal records. The project
accounts and financial records will be audited by the Government Audit Commission and the
Audit Report will be furnished to the Bank no later than six months following the close of the
financial year to which it relates. The Special Account/Statements of Expenditures report will
include:
* Deposit and replenishments received from the Bank;
* Withdrawal from the Special Account and other sources, such as the Executing Agency
Trust Account through which GoPNG and ENBPA will provide counterpart funds;
* The remaining balances at the end of the year, etc.



68
Annex 6, table A: Project Costs by procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure category                                                Prog u                                         -____mtho       _      -
Total Cost (With
ICBR               N(B                Other 2/           N.RF                ConLgencies)
LAND                                                                                                      0.44                   0.44
CIVIL WORKS
Port Protection                                1.10                0.44                 0.16                                      1.70
(0.86)              (0.34)              (0.13)                                     1.33)
Roads                                         11.69                0.98                                   0.26                   12.913
(9.14)              (0.76)                                                        (9.90)
Essential Services (Electric
power, water supply, Solid waste
manasement, Communications)                                        1.26                                   1.87                   3.13
(0.99)                                                        (3.99)
Social Services (Education,
Health, Public safety, Women's
Services)                                     4.56                 1.50                                   1.05                  I:.12
(3.57)              (1.18),                                                       34.74)
Economic Services                              1.62               0.06                                    0.32                   2.0c
(1.27)              (0.05)                                                        3.3')
Government Administration                     5.42                                                                                .42
(1.79)                                                                            (,79)
GOODS AND EOUIPMENT
Port Protection                                                    0.04                                                          0.04
(D.04)                                                        (0.04)
Roads                                         0.06                                                                               0.06
(0.05)                                                                            (0.05)
Back up Generators for Public
facilities                                    0.25                                                                               0.25
(0.22)                                                                            (0.22)
Economic Develooment                                               0.08                                                          C 08
(0.07)                                                        (0:107!
CONSULTANTS SERVICES
(Feasibility, Engineering Design
and Construction SuDervision)                                                          2.64               1.3034
(2.64)                                   (. 64'
Economic Diversification and
Longer-Term Development
Planning                                                                               1.93               0.16                   2 39
(1.93)                                   (1.33)
TOTAL                                         24.70                4.36                4.74               5.40                   3t 20
(16.88)             (3.42)               (4.70)                                   (2:15 00D
Notes: "N.B.F." = Not Bank Financed, "Other" = technical assistance. Figures in () are the amounts to be fmanced by the Bank loan.
"N.B.F.' includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultancies under trust funds, any reserved
procurement, and any crther miscellaneous items (details below).
1/ The first 3 figures under "N.B.F." i.e. Essential Services, Social Services and Consultants' Services are financed by European Union.
2/ The fourth figure under "Other." i.e. Economic Diversification is financed by AusAid.
Firsl 2 items under "Other" ie. Port Protection and Essential Services procured under community participation
procedures.
Technical Assistance procured according to World Bank Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants, January 1997.
All project management costs funded by GoPNG under own procedures.



69
Annex 6, table Al: Service Selection Arrangements
(Kina OOOs)
Service Expenditure Category       OCBS             OBS              Other       TOTAL
Kina 000s       Kina 000s         Kina 000s    Kina 000s
A. FIRMS                                 6,800           4,578              263        11,641
Engineering design & SuDervision         6,546            36                            6,581
Electric Power Supply                                                       71           71
Water Supply D&S                                                            192          192
Feasibility Studies & Investigations
Sewerage & Sanitation                    254                                            254
Surveys                                                   669                            669
Economic Development and Planning
Studies                                                  4543                           4,543
B. INDIVIDUALS
Agricultural Extension                                    46          _                  46
Notes: QCBS = Quality and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-Based Selection
SS = Single-Source Selection
CQ = Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), or others



70
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Component      Threshold for Prior     Procurement                    Docurments required    Loan    Amount subject to    Total
Category                    Identifier          Review               method       Review Method  for Disbursmment   Category    Prior Review        Amount
USS                                                                               lKtn 000s       Kna 000s
WORKS
Port Protection
130.1; 130.21;
Main wharf, Ah tam and Dawapia - silt traps   130.22            v500,000               ICB             Pror            Full Does        (1)(5)         2,313          2,960
Ah Tom, Dowapia - major repais & Upgrading    130.31            '00,000                NCB          Random Post          SOE             (1)(a)          0             688
Erosion Contnol Strsctures for oatchments on
ouldera Wall - Gullies                        140.1             S00,000                NCB          Random Poso          SOE             (1)(d)          0             500
Aeral Seeding                                 140.11            500,001               NCB          Random Post          SOE             (1)(d)                        29
3roadacre Erosion Measuns                     140.12            '500,000            NCB/other       Random Post          SOE             (1)(d)          0             416
Roads                                                                                                                                                    0
Rabaul Roads & dmains                      140.23;140.32        >500,000               I(B              Pnor           Full Docs        (1)(b)           0            1,863
Clearance of Devastated Areas             140.46; 140.47         500,000               Ice              Pnor           Full Does        (1)(g)         2,151          2,752
Kokopo Roads                                  140.5             >500,000               ICB              Pnor           Full Docs        (1)(b)         2422           3098
Kokopo Drains                                 140.5             ,500,001               ICE              Pnor           Full Dons         (1)(b)
140.7; 140.72;
Rabaul Kokopo Rd. Restoation                  140.73            '500,000               (CB              Prior          Fult Docs        (1)(c)         18,660        23,874
Rabaul Kokopo Rd. Vulcan Secton monitorng
rtnce                                         140.71            '500,000               NCB          Random Post          SOE             (1)(9)          0            1,423
Saliora to Warangoi Brdge                     140.82            C500,0W0               NCB          Random Post          SOE             (1)(9)         952           1,217
Rabaul Town Mdler Supply                      220.1              500,000               NCB              Prior          Full Doos         (')(9)          0             457
Saliona Town Water Supply                     220.12            cS00,001               NCB              Pror           Full Doos         (1)(9)                       1,274
Eut-Ain Health Center Water Supply            220.19            '500,002               NCB              Prior          Full Coos         (')(9)                        610
Kokopo Raniolo LanMll                         240.11            '50,000               NCB          Random Post          SOE             (1)(e)          0             965
Communications Transmitter Stafon Roof
Repair                                        250.11            '500,W00               NCB          Random Post          SOE             (1)(9)          0             111
Education
Kokopo Corrnmunity School                     310.11             500,000               NCB          Random Post          SOE             (1)(9)                       1.265
Utrmei VaUilie High school Stages 1i, ill &
lVupgrading                                   310.6             W500,000              lIC               Prior          Full Docs        (1)(g)         6,007          7,685
Malabunga High School Upgrading               310.62            n500,00                IC3              Prior          Full Cos          (')(9)        1,653          2,371
Vusvu High School/Kabaleo Teachees College    301.63            >500,000               ICI3             Prior           Full Doos        (1)(0)                       2,276
Health
Rabaul Town Clinic                            320.11            '500,0W                NCB          Random Post          SOE             (')(9)          0             450
Village Development
Village Development Fund                      365.1             v500O000            NCO/other       Random Post          SOE             (')(g)          0            2,352
Economic Services                                                                                                                         0
Cocoa Nursery                                 410.41            '50,000                NCB          Random Post          SOE             (1)(0)          0             157
Kc.kopo Business Center Infra                 420.1             '500,000               ICE              Prior          Full Doos         (1)(9)        3,425          4,382
Goverment Administration
Pnnv/Nat. Center                              510.1             '500.000                CEI             Pror           Full Docs         (1)(l)        4,834         14,648
GOODS AND EQUIPMENT
Supply of Seeds (Broadacre Control)           140.14            v30,000                ICE              Pror           Full Doos          (2)                          115
Survey Equipment                              140.74             '30,000               ICE              Pror           Full Docs         (2)            128            149
210.31; 210.32;
210.39; 210.4;
Back up Generators for Public facilities      210.44             v30,000               ICB              Pror           Full Dows         (2)            591            687
Nursery Supplies                              410.4              v30,000               IOB              POor           Full Doos          (2)                          195
DAL Incinerator                               410.44             '30,000             Shopping       Random Post          SOE              (2)            0             16
CONSULTANTS SERVICES
Engineering Design and Supervision
Varous contracis                          QCBS/QBS       Prior/prior review    Full Docs/SOE    (3)           3,671         12,103
Feasibility Studies
Kokopo Sewerage                               230.1                                   GCBI 3            Pnor           Full Doss          (3)           254            254
Agricultural Eltension
Resettlement Sites - Sikut                    410.45                                   QSS              Pror             SOE              (3)                          231
Coffee development, extn. & marketing         410.5                                    aSs              Pror            Full Docs         (3)                          896
Altemative Crops Nursery Establishment        410.51                                   aSS              Pror            Full Doss         (3)                          336
Researnh into cash and foodcrops              410.52                                   OBS              Prior          Full Dows         (3)                           346
Livestock development                         410.6                                    QBS              Prior            SOE              (3)                          182
Fisheries Development                         410.7                                    QBS              Pror           Full Doos          (3)                          346
Studies
Regional Eoonomic Strategy Study              600.1                                    QBS              Pror           Full Docs         (3)                          1,569
Agg. Devt Strat Feasibility Study             600.2                                    QBS              Prior          Full Docs         (3)                           270
ENBPA Inst Dev.                               600.3                                    OBS              Prior          Full Dows         (3)                           279
GRA Project Accouning System                  600.65                                   OBS              Pror            Full Docs         (3)                          87
Surveys
Rabaul Public Institutional Land              110.1                                    QBS              Prior            SOE              (3)                          191
New Resetternent Estates                      110.4                                    QBS 0            Pror           Full Dos            (3)    I   _       _        478
Notes: Thnesholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 .



71
Annex 6, table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
US$ million
Civil Works - Government Administration                 1.36                            33%
Civil Works - Other                                     14.22                           78%
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
costs), and 65% of local
expenditures for other items
Goods & Equipment                                       0.29                 Drocured locally
Technical Assistance                                    4.03                            100%
Unallocated                                             5.09
Front End Fee                                           0.26
Total Project Costs                                     25.26



72
Annex 6, table D Project Components by Year
(including contingencies)
(Kina million)
Component                            Total        1999       2000        2001        2002
Improving the Quality of Life for
Displaced Communities               8%           8.18        0.31       4.92        2.96        0.00
Land Mobilization                   2%           2.01        0.24       1.77        0.00        0.00
Infrastructure and Utility Services  6%          5.55        0.07       2.86        2.62        0.00
Social & Public Safety Services     0%           0.41        0.00       0.08        0.33        0.00
Community Development and
Economic Support                    0%           0.21        0.0       0.21        0.00        0.00
Consolidation of Kokopo as
Provincial Capital                 54%          52.11        0.52      10.23       35.67        5.70
Land management                     0%           0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00
Transportation Infrastructure      30%          28.54        0.13       4.02       20.22        4.17
Utility Infrastructure, Social Services
and Public safety                   4%           4.19        0.39       2.33        1.48        0.00
Economic Support & Government
Administration                     20%          19.37        0.00       3.88       13.97        1.52
Restoration of Rabaul as Regional
Port                               13%          12.04        0.11       6.59        4.85        0.48
Land management                     0%           0.19        0.09       0.10        0.00        0.00
Port-related Infrastructure        10%           9.32        0.00       4.67        4.17        0.48
UJtility Infrastructure, Social, economic
& Public Safety Services            3%           2.52        0.01       1.82        0.68        0.00
Development of support
infrastructure and services for
N.E. Gazelle Peninsula             19%          18.54        0.88       6.69        8.77        2.21
Land management                     0%           0.00        0.0()      0.00        0.00        0.00
Physical Infrastructure & Social, Public
Safety and Economic Services       19%          18.54        0.8F,      6.69        8.77        2.21
Economic Diversification and
Longer-Term Development
Planning                            5%           4.78        0.09       1.91        1.68        1.10
Land management                     0%           0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00
Potential New Economic Activities   3%           2.47        0.00        1.03       0.76        0.68
Studies                             2%           2.31        0.09       0.88        0.91        0.42
Total Base Costs                  100%          95.65        1.90      30.35       53.92        7.96
Design & Supervision                           10.29        0.67       3.27        3.89        2.45
Subtotal                                       105.94        2.57      33.61       57.82       10.41
US$millions (equivalent)                        39.20        0.95      12.44       21.39        3.85
Implementation Phasing                                     2%         32%        55%         10%



73
Annex 7
Second Gazelle Restoration Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Identification to Decision Meeting
Decision Meeting to Board Presentation
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     12 months            16 months
First Bank mission (identification)            10/09/1997           10/09/1997
Appraisal Completion                           04/09/1999           04/15/1999
National Executive Committee Approval          04/23/1999           07/28/1999
Negotiations                                   05/01/1999           08/06/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  11/05/1999           11/05/1999
Prepared by: Gazelle Restoration Authority/East New Britain Provincial Government
Preparation assistance: AusAID funding for economic evaluation of major road sections
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
S. Whitehead                             Senior Financial Analyst and task Team leader,
EASUR
Colin Gannon                             Economist, TWUTD
Asger Christensen                        Anthropologist, ASUSD
Richard Scheiner                         Engineer/Procurement Specialist, EASTR
Doug Martin                              Consultant Environmental Specialist
Robert Cohen                              Consultant Program Implementation
Management Specialist
Carlos Escudero                          Lawyer, LEGEA
Dominic Phung                            Disbursement Officers, LOAAS
Consultants who contributed to the Project
Design
Branko Cerecina                           Transport Economist/Engineer
Colin Mellor                             Fiscal Economist



74
Annex 8
Documents in Project File
Office of the Principal Adviser, Division of Planning & Research, ENBPA:
General observation of the present socio-economic conditions of ENBP, in particular the
Gazelle Peninsula. Rabaul, October 1998.
Office of the Principal Adviser, Division of Planning & Research, ENBPA:
Proposed policy on resettlements. Rabaul, October 19, 1998.
Office of the Principal Adviser, Division of Planning & Research, ENBPA:
Policy on rural settlements and resettlements. (Draft), Rabaul, October 28, 1998.
Provincial Executive Council, ENBPA:
Land Management Policy (plus background docurnents). July 3, 1998.
Community Development Officer, GRA/AusAid:
Socio-economic assessment of resettlement estates. Kokopo, October 1998.
Lands Department, ENBPA:
Rural resettlement areas, Kokopo, October 1998.
GRA and ENB Provincial Administration. 1998
"Kokopo - Rabaul Road Upgrade Appraisal, Final Report." July 1998. (With various
revisions, October and November 1998)
GRA Project Implementation Unit. 1998
"Warangoi Road Improvement: Report on Cost Benefit Analysis, Draft." September,
1998.
GRA Project Implementation Unit. 1998
"Gelagela Internal Road Upgrading: Report on Cost Benefit Analysis, Draft." October
1998.
Cardno and Davies. 1998. "Study of the Kokopo - Rabaul Road:
(1) EnvironmentalReport. July1998
(2) Social Impact Analysis Report on Existing and Alternative Alignments," 1998.
Prepared for GRA under AusAid financing.
Cardno and Davies. 1995. "Study of the Kokopo Urban Development Plan Executive
Summary." December 1995.
Koimanrea.
* "East New Britain Provincial Govt. 1997 Revised Budget."
* "East New Britain Provincial Govt. 1998 Budget."



75
Peni. 1998. "Critique of Fiscal Impact Analysis Report." July 1998.
Turbarat. 1996. "East New Britain Provincial Disaster Plan." ENB Disaster Committee.
September 1996.
Office of National Planning and Implementation. 1998. Directory of Data Systems in
PNG. Feb. 1998.
East New Britain Provincial Government.
* FY96 Provincial Financial Statements.
* FY97 Provincial Financial Statements



76
MOP Schedule D
Generated: 09/30/99
Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Papua New Guinea
Operations Portfolio
As of 12-Jul-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amouint iri USS Millions                   and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                   disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD         IDA     Cancellations  Undisbuirsed         Orig     Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 32
Active Projects
PG-PE-55446      1998   GOPNG                             EMERGENCY EL NINO                         5.00         0.00        0.00                4.32        1.42         0.00
PG-PE-4391       1994   GOVT OF PNG                       PETROLEUM DEVT T.A.                       11.00        0.00        0.00                 .58         .29         0.00
PG-PE-4392       1993   INDEPEDENT STATE OF PNG           EDUCATION DEVELOPMEN                     35.00         0.(0        0.00              17.72        17.69         0.00
PG-PE-4399       1993   GOVT OF PNG                       POPULATION PROJECT                         6.90        0.00        0.00                3.81        3.81         0.00
PG-PE-4389       1992   GOV'T. OF PAPUJA NEW GUINE        ORO SML8LDR OIL PALM                     27.00         0.00        0.00              15.69        15.30         0.00
PG-PE-4387       1991   GOVT. OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA         PUBLIC SECTOR TRG                        20.80         0.00        0.00                 .93         .91         0.00
Total                                                                                             105.70         0.00        0.00              43.05        39.42         0.00
Active Progects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   62.66               569.76              632.42
of which has been repaid:                    9.35              282.71              292.06
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                   96.35               291.69              388.04
Amount sold                                        0.00                15.39               15.39
Of which repaid               :0.00                                 15.39               15.39
Total Undisbursed                :                43.05                 0.00               43.05
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currenitly as of 30-Jun-99.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



77
MOP Schedule D (IFC) for Papua New Guinea
Papua New Guinea
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Jul-99
In Millions US Dollars
-----Held--------   -----Disbursed----------
-----------IFC ----------      --------IFC---------
FY Approval              Company                  Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1995                     PIIF Masurina              .15    0.00   0.00    0.00    .15    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                             .15    0.00    0.00    0.00    .15    0.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
Total Pending Conunitment:                  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00



78
Annex 10
Papua New Guinea at a glance                                                                      9116/G
Papua       East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                     New     Asia &   middle-   i
Guinea    Pacific  income        Development diamond-
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                         4.6      1.817      908                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                      890       990      1,710
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                        4.1      1,802     1,557
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                          2.3        1.2       1.1
Labor force I`%)                                        2.3        1.6       1.5     GNP                               Gross
Labor force (%)                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~                     ~~~~~~~~~per  (~~)primar,
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                                capita                        enrolIment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)                 17        35        58
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         58        69         68
Infant mortality (per 1,000 /ive births)                 61        37         38
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               30        20          .                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                   31        77         75
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                      .        15         14
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)    80       117        103              Papua New Guinea
Male                                                   87       119       105           --Lower-middle-income grouip
Female                                                 74       118       100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                             1.6      3.1        4.8       3.7
Gross domestic investmentVGDP                 21.6     20 5       27.1      30.3                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP             45 0     43.2       53.6      68.2
Gross domestic savingslGDP                    20.3     14 0       23.0      28.3
Gross national savings/GDP                    28.7      6.1       16.0      21.5
Current account balance/GDP                    6.0    -13.9       -4.7      -1.6      Dometic
Interest payments/GDP                          2.0      4.9        1.7       1.9       oesicInvestment
Total debtlGOP                                41 2     72.4       47.7      62.7
Total debt service/exports                    14.8     24.8       14.3       7.9
Present value of debt/GDP                        .        .       38.7
Present value of debt/exports                   ..        .       70 4
Indebtedness
197747  1988-98      1997       1998   199943
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   1.6      4 6      -4.6       2.5       1.4          - Papua New Guinea
GNP per capita                       -0.8      2.0     -7.6        0.0      -0.7               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services         3.6      9 1      -1.2      10.4       2.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment 1%)
(% of GOP)                                                                           0
Agriculture                                   33 0     29 9       27.4      24 4
Industrv                                      26.1     31.7       36.6      42.3     40
Manufacturing                                7.7       9 4       9.5        9.0     20
Services                                      40.9     38.5       36.0      333                                          .0
-20.      t     0       w     '     0
Private consumption                           53.7     63.6       54.7      51.0    -40
General government consumption                26 0     22.4       22.3      20.7
Imports of goods and services                 46.3     49.7       57.6      70 2                      G            GO,
197747  1988-98       1997       1998      Growth rates of exports and imports l%l
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    2.2      2.8       4 2       -6.4        40
Industry                                       3.2      8.4      -14.2      18.9     30. 
Manufactuing                                 0 7       3.8       5.2      -0.1     20..
Services                                       2.0      2.8        6.0      -5.5
Private consumption                            1.6      2.6       -3.6       9.4 
General govemment consumption                 -1.5      0 8        8.4     -13.965                                  97    9
Gross domestic investment                      0.1      3.7       -7.8       4.1    -10
Imports of goods and services                  1.0      4.8        3.9      13.4                   Exports    lImporrs
Gross national product                         1.4      4.3       -5.5       2.3
Note, 1998 data are preliminary estimates
' The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



79
Papua New Guinea
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997     1998
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                               4.5      3.4       4.0      13.6
Implicit GDP deflator                         7.4      8.0       3.4      10.3
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                 ..    22.9      27.7      24.2
Current budget balance                         ..      3.1       1.0      -0.9
Overall surplus/deficit                               -7.5      -4.4      -7.4
TRADE
1977    1987       1997     1998
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                  1,259     2,192     1,843
Gold                                           .     466       501       607
Copper                                               310       226       323
Manufactures
Total imports (cif)                                  1,292     1,895     1.289
Food                                                 203       244       166
Fuel and energy                                      145       208       142
Capital goods                                 ..    390        763       519
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..      64       100        79
Import price index (1995=100)                                    103       99
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..      ..        97       80
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977    1987       1997     1998
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                 721    1,306     2,507     2,141
Imports of goods and services                 743    1,462     2,396     1,956
Resource balance                              -22



80                         Annex 11
GAZELLE RESTORATION AUTHORITY
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
Telephone:    9828768                                       P.O. Box 2177
9828633                                        RABAUL
9828644                                        East New Britain Province
Facsimile:   9828767                                        Papua New Guinea
Email:       GRAPIU@datec.com.pg
Date: 31 March 1999
File: PIU-05-00
THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND GAZELLE RESTORATION PROJECT (SGRP)
INTRODUCTION
On September 19, 1994, the Rabaul Volcano erupted for the third time in a litt]e over
100 years causing enormous economic and social dislocation. Much of the infrastructure
facilities and services in Rabaul and surrounding areas was completely destroyed or severely
damaged and about 80,000 people were displacing including about 20,000 that required
permanent resettlement within the region.
In the immediate aftermath of the disaster, clonor support, including from the Bank.
was mobilized to reopen key roads, to restore basic functioning in health and education
services and facilities, in particular, and to provide sites away from the high risk areas for
communities made homeless. In this context, the Government of the Independent State of
Papua New Guinea (GoPNG) wishes to complete the restoration of government services and
economic activity in the region, which remains below pre-eruption levels. In the short-term,
the project will focus on developing relocation areas which provide a sustainable livelihood
for permanently displaced communities; establishing Kokopo as the major commercial :enter
and new provincial capital, restoring Rabaul as the Regional Port and restoring key the land
transport and other public services that are vital for the more dispersed settlement pattern
flow being sought by the Government. In order to build for the longer-term objective the
SGRP will help strengthen and diversify econornic activity, particularly in agriculture;
formulate a longer-term economic and spatial development strategy for the N.E. Gazelle
Peninsula; and reinforce development planning capacity in the region by integrating the
Gazelle Restoration Authority (GRA) into the East New Britain Provincial Government.
The SGRP is expected to run over a period. of 5 to 6 years. Implementation of the
program has been organized into two phases to allow broad based support to consolidate for
Bringing Back Well-being and Prosperity to a Beautiful East New Britain
File: lpdl.doc



81
the strategy to re-establish economic activity, government administration and residential
settlement away from the high risk areas and to facilitate the progressive accumulation of
skills and institutional capabilities for a normalized development planning process in the
province.
The full SGRP is expected to require investment of about US$70 milion equivalent.
Of this, IBRD would finance about US$40 million (57%), including US$25 million for the
first US$40 million phase. Funding has been committed by AusAID (US$0.3 million
equivalent) through grants for technical assistance and by the European union (US$4.6
million equivalent) for the first phase, as a continuation of their assistance to the earlier
Immediate-Terrn Restoration Program. The Government's contribution cDuld potentially
amount to a US$11.7 million equivalent for the first phase when budgetary constraints are
expected to be particularly severe and US$18.3 million equivalent for the overall program.
However, Japanese Government funding is also being sought for the new Government Center
at Kokopo, which would reduce the Government's investment accordingly.
THE PROGRAM
Goals
The Government's goal of the Second Gazelle Restoration Project (SGRP) is to help
to restore the self-sufficiency and wellbeing of the East New Britain people to the level
prevailing prior to the 1994 volcanic disaster, whilst ensuring the sustainability of the
outcomes and minimizing adverse impacts of future volcanic eruptions on lives, properties
and livelihoods.
Phasing
The SGRP has tvo consecutive, related phases: phase I focuses on consolidation of
emergency reconstruction and institutional transition (years 1-3); and phase 2 for the
transition to the longer-term development program (years 3-5/6).
DETAILED PROGRAM DESCRIPTION
Program implementation during the first phase - Consolidatio'i of Emergency
Reconstruction and Institutional Transition - is structured around the following five
components:
1) Improving the quality of life for displaced communities. To sustain sozial traditions and
strong community links, relocation sites have been assigned to village communities.
Some communities have expressed a preference for clustered village settlement that
would retain a plantation base for food and cash crops. Others have requested that sites be
subdivided to individual or extended families.
Sub-components include;
i) land mobilization for relocation of families in temporary carc centers and/or as
additional agricultural land to enhance the sustainability of live]ihood;
Bringing Back Well-being and Prosperity to a Beautiful East Nev Britain
File: lpdl.doc



82
ii) infrastructure and utility services including site roads, electric power, water
supply through communal rainwater tanks and deep wells and pit latrines fcr
individual families;
iii) social and public safety services; upgrading of aid posts to full health centers 1 )
serve larger catchment populations, extension services in health awareness and
health education. Police posts to enhance community security; and
iv) community development and economic support; agricultural extension services
for food and cash crops, markets for local produce, women's groups activities in
vocational and skills training and community-based micro-credit for women.
2) Consolidation of Kokopo as Provincial Capital.  Much of the private busines.s
community has already relocated from Rabaul to Kokopo, which is now the Provincial
Capital and center of the Islands Region and the new administrative center for national
government agencies as well as the East New Britain Provincial Government.
Sub-components include:
i)  trantsportation Infrastructure. Restoration of the 30 km road between Rabau,
Port and Kokopo Town and its growing business sector;
ii) utility infrastructure, social services and public safety, including and back-up
generators for key public safety facilities to compensate for unreliable grid supplh,
new schools; water supply for the Town health center; a landfil; and feasibilitp'
studies for treatment human waste; and
iii) economic support and governiment administrationi, including supporting
infrastructure for a new commercial center, a government administration; and a
fresh food market.
3) Restoration of Rabaul as Regional Port. Rabaul Port is a key economic asset handling
virtually 100 percent of the Province's trade. The recently constructed provincial wharves
have also helped to reinforce the Province's role in the economy of the New Guinea
Islands Region of PNG. This component would help protect against disruption of por
operations from siltation from volcanic ash deposits and erosion of the caldera slopes.
Sub-components include: land management, stabilization and revegitation of caldera.
slopes, improved drainage and control of sedimentation, rehabilitation of Port-related
Infrastructure and facilities and restoration of essential utility, infrastructure and public
safety services, as well as services for a new fresh food market;
4) Utility inifrastructure and social services for N.E. Gazelle Peniinsulea. Development of
provincial townships plays a key role in GoENB's strategy to establish a more dispersed
pattern of settlement and to strengthen the urban/rural linkages in the Gazelle Peninsula
with viable livelihood located away from the high-risk zones in and around Rabaul.
Sub-components include: roads to support the economic links between important towns
and with the rural hinterland, water supply in townships (including deep wells and
distribution) and feasibility studies of technical options for human and solid waste
disposal, upgrading of health centers, construction of a facility for women's groups
services and upgraded and extension of high schools to reduce overcrowding and
Bringing Back Well-being and Prosperity to a Beautiful East New Britain
File: lpdl.doc



83
reliance on double-shift classes, which increase security risks to students travelling at
dusk and threatens the traditionally high educational standards in the province and
facilities for womens' community services; and
5) Economic Diversification and Institution building for longer-termn development
planning. As the first, Immediate-Term Restoration Program moves towards completion,
it is necessary to establish the building blocks for a more regularized arid planned basis
for the development of the Gazelle Peninsula and the province as a who]e. This calls for
establishment of a broader analytical framework for assessing and prioritizing
development options reflecting economic and financial, environmental ard social, as well
as engineering issues.
Sub-components would include:
i)  R&D into Economic Diversificationt in conjunction with the private sector into
foodcrops and cashcrops, (e.g. livestock and fisheries development, spices,
coffee); and
ii) Development Planning: including studies to formulate (a'9 a longer-term
economic framework and implementation strategy for the region; (b) a
management plan will be prepared for the coastal zone area between Kokopo and
Tokua airport, which is already under significant development pressure; and (c)
air quality and environmental health effects of ongoing ash emissions from Mt.
Tavurvur.
The second phase - Transitionz to Longer-Ternm Developntenzt - will provide support
for the following activities:
a)     Restoring and integrating the road network by upgrading national roads and sealing
provincial roads to strengthen urban/rural links throughout the N.E. gazelle Peninsula:
b)     Completing provision of utility infrastructure restoring including olectric power and
water supply, health and education facilities, cultural and sports facilities to townships;
c)     Further strengthen govemment administration and the role of Kokopo as Provincial
Capital by completing the new regional govemment center complex and a new provincial
assembly building; and
d)     Expansion of small business activities in townships and identified opportunities in
cash and foodcrops.
EXPECTED OUTPUTS
The expected outputs of the SGRP will be:
1. A viable choice to resettle away from the high risk areas for families made
homeless by the volcanic eruption. This option would provide a satisfactory
interest (probably a lease) in sufficient land to ensure sustainable livelihood,
implementation of site layout plans that responds to community preferences
expressed through consultations and cgmmunity services restored to levels
prevailing prior to the eruption.
Bringing Back Well-being and Prosperity to a Beautiful East New Britain
File: lpdl.doc



84
2. Consolidation of the strategy to shift the locus of business activity an,d
government administration away from high risk areas and to the new Provincia.
Capital at Kokopo. This output will result from significantly reduced vehiclr.
operating costs on the major road between Rabaul Port and Kokopo Town
reduced costs to government, business and the community at large resultirtg fron.
consolidation of GoENB and National Government offices in Kokopo; anc
adequate infrastructure, utilities and social services for the increased residentia
base and expanding business community at Kokopo.
3. Reduced risk of disruption to national port operations, and improved management
of, and revenue from, the provincial port in Rabaul helping East New Britain
maintain its role as the main shipping hub for the New Guinea Islands Region.
4. A platform of public infrastructure and services in a number of townshlips to
support a more dispersed settlement pattern in the N.E. Gazelle Peninsula.
5. A defined spatial and economic development strategy for East New  Britain
Province. Prospects for expanding economic activity in viable cash and foodcrops
to be specifically identified.
6. Strengthened development planning capacity in the East New Britain Provincial
Government following of the GRA.
ORGANIZATION
The GRA will be the lead agency for the project. It will directly supervise implementation of
infrastructure works for roads, water supply, sewerage and solid waste improvements; local
markets; health and education facilities and emnergency services (including the new
Volcanological Observatory) and government administrative facilities. GRA will also
oversee implementation of works by State Enterprises including: power, water supply and
communications. To ensure effective coordination of all agencies involved in the project, a
Steering Committee made up of representatives from the oversight agencies (including the
Department of Treasury and Planning) and from the collaborating/implementing agencies
will be established by Memorandum  of Agreement. The Steering Committee would be
chaired and supported by the GRA under the auspices of the NPIO, which is the GoPRNG
agency responsible for national oversight of the Development Budget.
CRITERIA FOR MOVING TO PHASE 2
The following criteria are set as triggers for moving to phase 2:
1. Agreement with respective communities on site plans, completion of infrastructure
and services and at least a 80 percent occupancy at all relocation sites.
2. Completion of Port-related protection works in Rabaul, deferral of any reconstruction
of public facilities and services and effective restriction of private sector
redevelopment in the devastated areas of Rabaul.
3. Construction of the first phase of the Government Administration Center at Kokopo
and 40% occupancy of the Kenebot housing development also at Kokopo.
4. 80% completion of physical works urnder first phase overall including 100%
completion of the rehabilitation of the Rabaul/Kokopo Road (except for the Vulcan
section); the road from Baliora to Warangoi Bridge; water supply at Baliora; new
high school at Utmei and upgrading and extension at Malabunga; and upgrading of
Bringing Back Well-being and Prosperity to a Beautiful East New Britain
File: lpdl.doc



85
health centers at Kerevat, Warangoi and Gelagela.
5. Formulation and GoENB approval of spatial and economic developTnent strategy for
East New Britain Province.
6. Approval by GoENB of detailed arrangements to integrate GRA in:o the Provincial
Government.
7. Recruitment by GRA/GoENB of additional specialists in: urban/regional planning,
urban economics/financial analysis, environmental analysis, social anialysis.
8. Adoption by GoENB of satisfactory guidelines for land management and for
implementation of Environmental Assessments and for preparing and implementing
environmental management plans incorporating measures to mitigate the impact of
adverse impacts.
INDICATIVE PROGRAM FINANCING DATA (US$ million equivalent)
Project             IBRD   AusAID       EU      GoPNG/ENB        Other    Total
Finances
First Phase SGRP     25.0     0.3       4.6          6.2          5.5      41.6
Second Phase SGRP    15.0     5.4       2.3         6.6            0       29.3
Total SGRP           40.0     5.7       6.9         12.8          5.5      70.9
ESTIMATED IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
SGRP First Phase    October 1999 - December 2002
SGRP Second Phase   2002 -2004
Bringing Back Well-being and Prosperity to a Beautiful East Nevw Britain
File: Ipdl.doc



86
Hosea Turbarat                               John Painap  OBE
Provincial Administrator                     Project Manager
East New Britain Provincial Administration   Gazelle Restoration Authority
Project Implementation Unit
Date:   ..........Date                              .............................
Bringing Back Well-being and Prosperity to a Beautiful East New Britain
File: lpd1.doc



87
Annex 12
SECOND GAZELLE RESTORATION PROGRAM
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
1.   Voluntary relocation of population from high risk villages around Rabaul
1.1   Strategy for voluntary relocation
A number of key strategy elements for relocation and rehabilitation unde"- the Second
Gazelle Restoration Project flow from the situation described below regarding the population
distribution between relocation sites and villages of origin. These strategy elements will serve to
rectify the current uncertainty regarding the number of people and the populaticin dynamics
involved in the relocation process, ensure that the permanently displaced population receive
assistance to establish sustainable livelihood in alternative areas, that the selection of additional
land to be purchased for relocation purposes is based on more appropriate considerations of both
sustainable livelihood and social costs, and that the planning of the land use, infrastructure and
social services is based on adequate consultation with both the target group and the neighboring
'host' community.
(i)   A baseline census was initiated in July 1999 to assess population dynamics and the
distribution of people between the relocation sites and villages of origin. The census will assess
on a village-by-village basis:
* Distribution of the relocation target group population between relocation sites, villages of
origin, unofficial 'care centers', and elsewhere.
* Pre-eruption family income sources and livelihood strategies.
* Present income sources, livelihood strategies and income levels for families by village in the
different relocation sites and 'care centers', and for the families who have r eturned to their
villages of origin.
* Number of families that have members living permanently both in relocation sites and
villages of origin.
* Number of families that utilize their plot in the relocation site but have the:ir principal
residence in their village of origin.
(i)   Quarterly monitoring will be undertaken to establish population movemlznts and
distribution between relocation sites, 'care centers' and villages of origin, as well as to assess
changes in sources and levels of income.
(ii)  During MTRP Phase I, priority will be given to provide the approximately 1,000 families
from 'no-return' villages in the relocation sites along with those presently living in unofficial
'care centers' with sustainable livelihood through access to land for houses and/or gardening
together with services.
(iii) Before the start of MTRP Phase I, complete allocation of family blocks in all retained
ITRP relocation sites (Gelagela, Sigute, Clifton).



88
(iv) During MTRP Phase II, assistance may be provided to those relocation sites or sections ef
sites that are at present only marginally occupied by people from 'possible return' villages. The
composition and scale of assistance, if any, will depend on an assessment established thrDugh
quarterly monitoring of the scale of pernanent settlemnent by families from these villages.
(v)   Selection of land to be purchased to promote the activity described under (ii) will be based
on an assessment of the scope for sustainable livelihood in terms of the land capability together
with the opportunities and constraints derived from the site location, as well as the costs of
furnishing the site with infrastructure and social services.
(vi) Land purchased to promote the activity described under (ii) will be assessed in terrns of
both the land capability and location to determine the number of families that can be expected tco
establish sustainable livelihood on the land in question.
(vii) Planning of the site and land use plan for relocation sites will be undertaken in consultatic,n
with the resettlers, and planning of the provision of social services will be undertaken in
consultation with both the resettlers and the neighboring communities (see Annex 13 for details).
(viii) Leases for plots in relocation sites will be amended to include clauses requiring thalt (a)
members of the beneficiary family to whom the lease is issued must permanently residing on the
plot to avoid forfeiture, and (b) both wife and husband share the rights to the plot they have been
allocated.
1.2. Population distribution and dynamics
The total population targeted for voluntary relocation from villages around Rabaul exposel
to high risk from volcanic eruptions is estimated to be around 17 to 19,000 persons. I The target
population for relocation consists almost exclusively of Tolai, the largest ethnic group in ihe
Gazelle peninsula.
In the immediate aftermath of the September 1994 eruptions, three relocation sites were
acquired. These were the Gelagela and Warena plantations and state land in the Sigute area.
Additional plantation land was bought at Clifton, and recently another plantation was purchased
at Vunakambi. The considerations determining the acquisition of relocation sites were immediati.
availability and price rather than locational advantages regarding livelihood options or attempts 1
match these options with the pre-eruption livelihood pursuits of the villages targeted for
relocation at specific sites. The average price per hectare for plantation land bought on the open
market has been 617 Kina.
Table 1 Relocation sites
I Sgute (Stage I & I )       I            ,           3    | NAl
Figures on the target population for relocation from the high risk villages around Rabaul varies. The
figure above of 17 to 19,000 persons is based on information collected in Oct. 1998 from Resettlement
Coordinators and Local Government Ward Councilors and on the census conducted by GRA in July 1999.
An alternative figure of 13, 755 persons for the total target population can be compiled from data in
General Observation of Present Socio-Economic Conditions of ENBP, Office of the Principal Adviser,
Division of Planning & Research, Rabaul October 1998.



89
Gelagela                 260            0.2        260,000  7
Warena                   203            0.6
Clifton                  609           0.24-1      300,000
Vunakambi                160           TBD         200,000
Settlement in the relocation sites by the target population has been unever.. Between
September 1997 and the October 1998, the distribution of the target population developed as
follows:
Table 2 Population distribution
Gelagela                      1,227        719         1,047
Sigute a                       748 i       382          375
Warena                         210 5s1                   2 9
Clifton                       1,64          89          105
Unofficial 'care centers'                       329          279
Residing or resettled elses                                  e 344  51  r
i vilgso_oii                                   ,1          1,942_
There appears to have been an increase in the number of people in some of the relocation
sites over the past year and a half. In October 1998, 41% of the target population were residing in
the relocation sites, 51 % were back in their villages of origin, and the balance  aere either in
unofficial 'care centers' waiting for assistance to establish sustainable livelihood, temporarily
residing with relatives in neighboring villages or had resettled somewhere else at their own
initiative. Preliminary figures from the July 1999 baseline survey indicate that inovement into the
relocation sites has continued, and that around 53% of the target population are residing in the
Four established relocation sites, 37% are in their villages of origin, while IO % are residing
elsewhere. However, the population movements differ significantly between re.ocation sites.
While Gelagela has had a significant intake over the past year and a half, it has been marginal in
Clifton, and both Sigute and Warena has experienced a net out-migration. However, in the case
of Sigute, the stagnation indicated by the figures in the table above do not reveal the actual
population movements. While about 50 families gave up waiting for plots to be allocated to them
and returned to their village of origin, another 40 families moved to the site after receiving plots
of land.
Thus, what the figures in the table above indicate, is that the distribution of people between
relocation sites and their original villages is an ongoing process which will be determined by the
choices made to secure livelihood by individual families in terms of the opportunities and
constraints encountered in both of these settings. These opportunities and cons -aints vary
significantly both between villages of origin in terms of the level of destructioit, and between
relocation sites in terms of the size of plots provided for each family and whether plots have been
allocated, the scope for external employment and income, and the degree of fit between the
livelihood opportunities offered by the site and those pursued by people in their original village.
A basic distinction exists between the high risk villages where a return cf the population is
an option since the damage inflicted by the eruption was relatively limited, and those listed in the



90
table below that were exposed to heavy damage which prevents the return of the population in the
medium or even long term. About one third of the population targeted for relocation originate
from such 'no-return' villages. While these villages do not permit the permanent return of the
original population at this point in time, not all have opted for settlement in the assigned
relocation site due to what they perceive as critical livelihood and security constraints. Thus, tl e
majority of the population from the 'no-return' villages along the foot of the Vulcan volcano have
refused to settle in the Warena relocation site and are either in the so-called unofficial 'care
centers' of Tobera and Warangoi fending for themselves, or are residing with kinsmen in other
villages on the Gazelle peninsula.
Table 3: Relocation of population from 'no-return villages'
Along the foot     Tavana         0.6 ha plots        157 HH            213 HII
Of Vulcan          Latlat _                        |_84 HH               5 HHB
Volcano            Balance- of populatiobn in 'care centersw or residing with kitnsmen
Rapolo        || 150 HH    |                         150 H]I
_  _ _  _ Malaguna 3                             160 HH         153 Ml4 
North of           Nodup          Gelagela:        | 160 HH    |        1601 Ml
Tavurvur         |Matalau        |0.2 ha plots          213 HH    |     213 H14    l
Volcano          |Baai                                   169 HH    |    169 HH      l
Footof Tvurvr   TlwatSigue: lot      262HH             62 MlS_
For the population from the 'possible return' villages which were only slightly darnaged lby
the eruption, the range of options are different. Both the available population figures and peoples'
own stated perceptions indicate that it is unlikely that all the people from these villages will set:le
in the relocation sites. For this population, the relocation sites fulfill a double function. Firstly, :he
sites provide access to land, social services and infrastructure which will enable part of an
extended family unit to move out of its original village thereby reducing the increasing p:ressure
on land in the villages surrounding Rabaul. Alternatively, the land can be used to provide an
added source of agricultural income based on temporary residence at the site. Secondly, the
relocation sites provide an area of safety where those remaining the in the high risk villages can.
flee to stay with relatives in the event of a new volcanic eruption. The medium or long response
to these options by individual families is impossible to forecast since it depends inter alia on such
disparate factors as the evolving employment opportunities in Rabaul versus Kokopo, and on th.
perceived and real threats of a new volcanic eruption in the near future. However, one factor
which respondents stated significantly influenced their decision not to shift to the relocation site
was the still pending allocation of plots and issuing of leases to individual families.
1.3. Relocation sites and remedial actions
Gelagela relocation site
Gelagela is located about 7 km south of Kokopo. Settlers are from villages north-west of
Rabaul. The level of destruction in some of these villages allow a return of the displaced
population, while others have suffered extensive damage which rules out resumption of residenc:
in the villages of origin. The 'no-return' villages are Rapolo, Baai, Nodup, Matalau, Rakunat ani:.



91
part of Malaguna 3 with a total population in Gelagela estimated to be 845 families. Livelihood in
these villages was based on combinations of gardening and fishing, with some mlnmbers of the
communities commuting to Rabaul for work.
The average plot size in Gelagela of 0.2 ha per family does not provide for sustainable
livelihood based on subsistence and cash crop gardening. While families utilize their plots for
subsistence crops (e.g. bananas), many have both male and female members workcing on
neighboring plantations as laborers earning salaries below the minimum wage. Only an estimated
10 % of the families have members working in Kokopo. A few of the people from the 'no-return'
villages go back temporarily to their villages of origin to fish and harvest coconuts.
Required actions
* Acquisition of additional land for gardening in the vicinity of Gelagela. Priority with regard
to land allocation should be given to the settlers from the 'no-return' villages.
* Provision of water supply and sanitation
* Provision of connection to electricity grid
* Establishment of police post
* Support to enable youngsters to attend high school or vocational training
 Provision of roofing materials to poor families
Warena relocation site
The target population constitutes about 210 families from the heavily destroyed 'no-return'
villages of Valaur (69), Tavana (57) and Latlat (84) at the foot of Vulcan. At present 11 families
from Valaur, 13 from Tavana and 5 from Latlat are living in Warena. Other families from the
target villages, who refuse to move to Warena, are living in the unofficial 'care c enters' of
Tobera (44) and Warangoi (135), or with kinsmen in the village of Kikitabu neighboring Valaur.
Warena is located about 30 km south-west of Kokopo in a relatively remcte area with
irregular transport connections to Kokopo. The place was only selected as a relocation site
because it had to be acquired as part of the deal to purchase Gelagela. The area around Warena is
inhabited by Sulka, who are non-Tolai, and who claim residual rights to the War ena plantation
which was originally bought from them. As a result, there has been tensions between the
resettlers and the 'host' population, which together with the remote location of the site and law
and order problems in the area has served as a deterrent against relocation to the site. In addition,
the plot size to be allocated at Warena is 0.6 ha which is not sufficient to sustair. a family. As a
result, the population in the Warena relocation site has decreased from 51 famil.es in November
1997 to 29 in October 1998.
Tobera 'care center'
Accommodates 44 families from the 'no-return' village of Valaur. The villagers were
scheduled for relocation at Warena, which they refuse. They are at present settled on about 1 ha
of customary land which they rent from the landholding community.
Warangoi 'care center'



92
Accommodates 135 families from the 'no-return' villages of Tavana (95), Latlat (30) and
Valaur (10). Settled on approximately 3 ha of government land in the urban area of Warangoi
township.
Required actions
Consult with the target group regarding the options listed below. Since the population from
the three target villages are currently living in different locations, livelihood restoration may be
addressed either by shifting to a new relocation site or by augmenting land access at the present
location. Specific solutions should reflect both the preferences of the people currently staying on
the site and the scope for livelihood restoration provided by the site. In the case of the 'care
centers' this will be determined by whether security of place can be obtained for permanent
residence in the 'care center, and whether additional land for cultivation can be purchased in the
surrounding area.
*  Maintain Warena as a relocation site for the families currently residing there. Ensure
sustainable livelihood through allocation of larger family plots which provide for a viable
combination of subsistence farming and cash cropping.
*  Abandon Warena as a relocation site and shift the current residents to a new site (e.g.
Vunakambi). Existing school and aid post on the resettlement site to be utilized as additional
facilities for the Sulka 'host' community.
-  For the population in Warangoi 'care center', either acquire additional land for gardening in
the vicinity of the 'care center', or acquire land for a new relocation site to accommodate the
135 families elsewhere.
*  If Warangoi is selected as the place of permanent relocation: provide improved drinking
water facilities (e.g. additional tanks) and roofing materials.
*  For the population in Tobera 'care center', provide access to land either at a new alternative
relocation site (e.g. Vunakambi), or in the vicinity of the present unofficial 'care center' if t] e
settlement in this location can be regularized.
-  Assess the absorptive capacity of the newly purchased site at Vunakambi in terns of blocks
that can provide for sustainable livelihood based on a combination of gardening and fishing a
the main sources of income. On the basis of this, reassess the target population for the site
and if required, provide land for an alternative relocation site for the balance population.
*  Participatory planning based on consultation with the resettlement beneficiaries regar,ling siIe
planning and layout, and with the beneficiaries and 'host' community regarding provision
of/access to social services.
Clifton relocation site
The Clifton relocation site is located about 13 km south of Kokopo on a former cocoa and
coconut plantation. The target population comprises around 1,640 families from 'possible return'
villages to the north and east of Rabaul. About 85% of the resettlement site has been surveyed,
but plots have not been allocated. A school and teacher accommodation has been completed, anc
education is scheduled to start in early 1999. Settlement on the site is at present less than 10% of
the target population.
Required actions



93
*  Develop through consultation with the potential resettlers land management plans for the
areas allotted to villages including settlement layout and services.
*  Allocate plots to target families.
*  Postpone all activities regarding infrastructure and additional social services to the phase II of
GRP 2 subject to an assessment on a recurrent basis to determine the scale of permanent
settlement.
*  Following the assessment, initiate forfeiture proceedings against those who do not use the
allotted plot for permanent residence.
*  Following the assessment, reallot land within Clifton to provide permanent settlers with
larger plots to facilitate sustainable livelihood, or if required by the scale of permanent
settlement in Clifton, acquire additional land to provide plots of adequate si2e for all settlers.
Sigute relocation site
Sigute is situated about 22 km south-west of Kokopo across the Warangoi river on state
land in a logged-out forest area. The area was purchased 1959 by the Colonial Administration
from the original owners, who belong to the Baining ethnic group. Since 1960, part of the Sigute
lands have been used for an agricultural settlement scheme to relieve pressure oii land and decant
the surplus Tolai population from the Gazelle peninsula. The Sigute relocation s [te is located on
residue land from the agricultural scheme. The size of plots allocated for individual families is
around 3 ha.
Utilization and settlement in Sigute fall in three categories. Firstly, about 262 families from
the 'no-return' village of Talwat are settled in the site. Blocks have not been allocated, and apart
from the establishment of a school, the settlement and land utilization is unplamned with potential
negative environmental impacts. Secondly, families from the 'possible return' villages of Matupit
no. 1-4 have been allotted plots and issued temporary leases, but very few have settled
pernanently on the land allotted to them. Thirdly, about 50 families from Matupit no. 5 are at
present settled in a unofficial 'care center' next to the functioning school caterir g to the Matupit
villagers. Since the demarcation of blocks for the settlers from Matupit no. 5 has not been
completed and no blocks have been allocated, the number of families waiting in the 'care center'
has over the past year dropped from about 100 to 50 families, with the balance returning to
Matupit. The remaining inhabitants of the 'care center' earn their livelihood through assisting
those Matupit no. 1-4 villagers who have received plots which clearing and plarting the plots,
and though work for those who hold agricultural leases. In exchange for their labor, the 'care
center' inhabitants are given access to cultivate subsistence crops (e.g. bananas) on the plots they
have worked on.
Those who return to Matupit island, derive their income from the same p irsuits that
existed before the eruption, namely fishing and collection of Megapod eggs, and to a lesser extent
compared with pre-eruption conditions, from employment in Rabaul.
Required actions
* For the Talwat section of Sigute: establish through consultation with the resettlers a land
management plan including preferably a nucleated settlement layout to facilitate provision of
services (water supply & sanitation), as well as measures to conserve vegetation in catchment
areas.



94
*  For the area allotted to Matupit 1-4 villagers: postpone all activities regarding infrastructure
and additional social services to the stage II of GRP 2 subject to an assessment based on
quarterly monitoring to determine the scale of permanent settlement.
*  For the Matupit 5 villagers: survey, demarcate and allot blocks in Sigute or identify and
allocate land in an alternative resettlement site elsewhere which provides more diversified
livelihood options (e.g. fishing and gardening).
*  Initiate forfeiture proceedings against those who do not use the allotted plot for permanent
residence.
Ulamatis 'care center'
Accommodates 50 families from Matupit no. 1, 2, and 5 who have not been allotted blocks
in Sigute. They have purchased land for their settlement from the host population, which has
provided them with access to land for gardening. Apart from subsistence gardening, incomes are
derived from sale of bananas and vegetables in Kokopo, casual work and neighboring
plantations, while a few are employed in Kokopo and commute to the town.
Required actions
* Provision of additional land for gardening. Determine through consultation with the 50
families whether the land should be in Sigute, in the vicinity of their present settlement in
Ulamatis, or in a new resettlement area elsewhere.
* Provide for access to social services (e.g. 'host' community school in Ulagunam).
* Survey of boundary of land purchased from 'host' community.
2.   Land acquisition and compensation
2.1   Relocation sites
During the Second Gazelle Restoration Project (MTRP Phase I), about 1,000 families fromi
the 'no-return' villages around Rabaul will be provided with access to land. This includes the
approximately 210 families from the villages along the foot of Mt. Vulcan who will be provided
with land in new relocation sites or in the vicinity of the 'care centers' where they are currently
residing, and 845 families residing in the Gelagela relocation site who require additional land to
enable establishment of sustainable livelihood. The total land requirement is estimated to b3e in
the order of 3,000 ha. The land will either consist of plantations acquired through commercial
transactions between willing seller and willing buyer, or of state land in appropriate locations
made available for the relocation scheme.
In cases where operating plantations are purchased, contracted workers living on the
plantation will have to be laid off and relocate. Since all the additional land to be acquired has nc.
yet been identified, the extent of such relocation is not known. If and when the need arises,
mitigation measures for plantation workers who have to relocate will therefore be phased as
separate action plans based on a census and inventory of losses. To ensure compliance with the
Bank's OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement, ENBPA has approved a Policyfor Relocation and
Compensation. This Policy provides for time bound action plans to assist affected workers to find.
comparable employment on neighboring plantations, logistical support for the affected families ti:



95
move to their new location of residence, appropriate compensation at replacement cost for any
assets lost, and a relocation grant to compensate income lost due to the move. ThIlse mitigation
measures will be undertaken before new sites are opened for settlement by benef ciaries from the
high risk villages (see Annex 13). The Policyfor Relocation and Compensation form part of
ENBPA's Policy on Rural Settlement and Resettlement, which provides the framework for the
voluntary relocation from the high risk villages around Rabaul. So far, one specif:ic Resettlement
Action Plan has been developed for the 19 families to be relocated from the Vunakambi
plantation.
2.2. Civil works
No land acquisition for civil works is expected for MTRP Phase I. For MT'RP Phase II
land acquisition may be required for if the 4 km section of the Rabaul-Kokopo road along the
foot of the Vulcan volcano is reconstructed on a new allignment. This section of the road was
totally destroyed during the eruption. A temporary road across unstable volcanic pumice along
the same alignment as the pre-eruption road will continue to be used throughout implementation
of the Second Gazelle Restoration Project (MTRP Phase I). The exact alignmenl and the possible
need for land acquisition will depend on whether studies of soil and erosion conditions verify that
a threshold level of stability has been achieved which render investments in road rehabilitation
feasible. The pre-eruption population in the area that would be affected by land acquisition for
the new road alignment have all been displaced by the 1994 volcanic eruption.
Traditionally, the Provincial Government of East New Britain has followed a policy where
the land for infrastructure services (e.g. roads, electricity) is provided as a comriunity
contribution without payment of compensation to the affected resource owners ,ince they view
these services as conferring a benefit to the community in question. The land for the Rabaul-
Kokopo road and most other roads in ENB was acquired decades ago without payment of
compensation. The only exception to this longstanding tradition is the last section of the road
from Kokopo to the airport at Tokua (Kabakaul-Tokua) for which land was acquired on a willing
seller willing buyer basis from customary landholders and plantations in 1992. -If compensation
payments are made for the abandoned land required for the new alignment of tle Rabaul-Kokopo
road, this might create a precedent with unforeseeable financial and political consequences for
the Provincial Govt. of ENB, since the former owners of the land occupied long ago by this and
other roads may use the case to raise claims for compensation. During consultations with the
Vulcan area villages in late 1997, their stated position was, that due to the danger posed by
volcanic vent at Mt. Vulcan, they did not contemplate returning to settle in the area, and if they
were provided with adequate land for sustainable livelihood - villagers identified a site at
Vunacambi, which has now been acquired by ENBPA, as their preferred relocation site - they
would forego any claims for compensation for land lost to a new alignment of ihe road on the
Vulcan section. It should be emphasized, that while the assistance including homestead and
agricultural land to be provided to the former inhabitants of the villages along ihe foot of Vulcan
under the restoration program is not a compensation payment for the land to be acquired for the
Vulcan road section, these measures will nevertheless address the objective of the OD 4.30,
namely the restoration of former living standards, earning capacity, and production levels. In
view of both the time that has elapsed since this issue was decided on by the Vulcan area
villagers and the recent introduction of a new Provincial policy on compensation, their
willingness to give up claims for compensation for land lost to a new road alignment if provided
with alternative land in the relocation sites should be reconfirmed and formnallv recorded in a new
meeting with the villagers.



96
2.3 ENBPA policy on land acquisition
The Provincial Executive Council of the East New Britain Provincial Governmernt has in
August 1999 formalized its approach to land acquisition in a policy. Whilst this Policy actually
introduces procedures and mechanisms to provide compensation to those affected by losses
caused by development projects, a number of features may be inconsistent with Bank Policies at
this stage and an exemption for the Project has been approved by the Government.



97
Table 4: Relocation sites and relocation of population from high risk villages2
Gelagela     Malaguna 2       Yes                89            50              62
Malaguna 3      Partly             160           60              153
Rapolo          No                 150           120             150
Iawakaka        Yes                92             13             14
Baai            No                 169     __89                  169
Nodup           No                 160           97              160_
Matalau         No                213            164             213
Rakunat         No                 80             80             80
Rabuana         Yes                114           46              46
Sigute       Matupit 1-4      Yes               386            20              60
Matupit 5       Yes                too           100             52
Talwat          N                 262            262             262
Warena       Tavana*3         No                 57             10             13
Valaur*         No                 69            30              11
Latlat*         No                 84             11              5
Clifton      Korere I         Yes                106            14             14
Korere 2        Yes                85             13             30
Tavui 3         Yes                123            5              22
Volavolo        Yes                200           21              23
Ratavul         Yes               209             2               6
Ratung          Yes                153           23               4
Mixed village4  No                 54             2               3
Raulan 1-2      Yes                173            2               2
Kuriap          Yes                131            7               1
Malaguna 1      Yes               408             0               0
TOTAL                                           3,827         1,241           1,555
Oct98-annexl .doc
2    Figures are based on information collected by the GRA AusAid Community Development Officer
and members of the Bank team through field visits and interviews with people in the re location sites during
the November 1997 and October 1998 Bank mnissions. The figures should only be considered indicative,
and will be superseded by the baseline census to be initiated in July 1999.
3    For the villages marked with an asterisk, the balance of the population are in ui official 'care
centers' or with kinsmen in neighboring villages.
4    The target population consist of members of the Chinese and Malay inhabitant, of the Malay Town
section of Rabaul. The balance of the population are assumed either to have left ENB or are settled in
Kokopo.



98
Annex 13
Second Gazelle Restoration Project
Generic implementation plan for relocation activities
1.    Site selection based on considerations o   - GRA Com. Dev. Officer -    New relocation si es or
land capability, locational opportunities   GRA Env. Officer      supplementary land identified
and constraints, and total social costs.  - Lands Division        for acquisition
2.    Review and approval of sites identified    - ENBPA Provincial      Approval of ident'fied land for
for acquisition                       Planning Working Group      acquisition
3.    Land acquisition                      - LI_ands Division           Land acquired
4.    Survey of site according to ENB       - G(RA Env. Officer          - Aerial photography
Enivironmental Guidelinesfor          - Lands Division            - Mapping of bourdaries
Development Proposals                                             - Contour plan
- Environmental Constraints
- Existing land use
- Soil & water survey
- Agricultural lanc capability
5.    Assist present users/inhabitants on site    - ENBPA Provincial     Alternative employment and
(e.g. plantation workers) to find     Planning Working Group -    housing provided
alternative employment and housing    GRA Com. Dev. Officer
based on relocation and compensation
action plans
6.    Determine number of beneficiary       - GRA Env. Officer           Number of settler families for
families based on assessment site in  - GRA Com. Dev. Officer    the site determined
terms of land capability and locational    - ENBPA Div. of Primary
opportunities and constraints.       Industry
7.    Select beneficiary villages for relocation   - GRA Com. Dev. Officer  Beneficiary villages selected
on the site                           - ENBPA Provincial
Plannuing Working Group
planin an A'oato  pr-ocess001   0:, ;
9.    Select Resettlement Coordinator from  - GRA Com. Dev. Officer    Resettlement Coorc:inator
target group (if not already appointed)                           appointed
10.   Consultations with beneficiaries on use                           Inputs for planning or 10. 1,
of resettlement site, relocation schedule,                        10.2 and 10.3:
and required support:
10.1   Consultation on resettlement site land  - GiRA Env. Officer      Preliminary land us,. plan
use plan                              - GRA Com. Dev. Officer     - Village layout & l:o)undaries
- Lands Division            - Internal roads
- Agricultural land ui.e area
boundaries
- Water supply
- Power easements
- Sanitation
- Other issues ?
The GRA Community Development Officer and GRA Environmental Officer as well as the
concerned Divisions of ENBPA will be supported as required on the different activities outlined in the
implementation plan by the Sociologist, Environmentalist and Economist furnished by AusAID to provide
technical assistance to GRA and ENBPA.



99
10.2   Discussion of relocation assistance  - GRA Engineer             Inputs for relocation plan
needs (water tanks, roofing iron etc) and  - GRA Com. Dev. Officer
relocation schedule
10.3   Consultation on environmental       -GRA Env. Officer           En vir. management plan:
management issues                                                - S tt-backs from streams
- Steep slope protection
- Erosion protection of internal
roads
- Protection of primary forest
aid significant fauna
Ii.   Consultation with beneficiaries and  - GRA Engiteer              In pruts for planning of
'host' community on requiremett for   - GRA Env. Officer         education, health, sports,
services.                            - GRA Cow. Dev. Offteer    telephone link, transport,
and law & order services etc
12.   Preliminary demarcation of resettlement  - Lands Division        Resettlement site prepared for
site for different types of designated use                       setlement
13.   Review and approval of the preliminary   - ENBPA Provincial      Approval of preliminary land
demarcation of resettlement site for  Planning Working Group     use plan
different types of designated use.
14.   Preparation of plan for relocation   - GRA Engineer              Pi oposal for time-bound
assistance (water tanks, roofing     - GRA Com. Dev. Officer    relocation plan and budget
materials etc)
15.   Approval of relocation assistance plan &   - GRA Project Manager  Approved relocation plan
budget
16.   Beneficiaries given site access to   - Lands Division            S :art of resettlement on site
commence constructing houses and
begin agricultural activities based on
designated village area and preliminary
allocation of blocks
17.   Provision of planned relocation      - GRA                       Relocation to new site
assistance.                                                      facilitated
18.   Prepare final Environmental          - GRA Env. Officer          Environmental Management.
Management Plan including land use   - Lands Division            F lan
management.                          - GRA Com. Dev. Officer
19.   Review and approval of final         - ENBPA Provincial          Approved Environmental
Environmental Management Plan        Planning Working Group      Management Plan
20.   Prepare detailed survey of designated  - Lands Division           Muap of designated land use
land use
21.   Review and approve detailed survey of   - ENBPA Provincial       l)esignated land use survey
land use                             Planning Working Group      Lnd map approved
22.   Issue leases for agricultural blocks to  - Lands Division         l,eases issued to blocks
families
23.   Prepare plan for services &           GRA                         .Preliminary service and
infrastructure provision including                               infrastructure plan
commitments regarding O&M from
relevant provincial authorities and
beneficiaries.
24.   Obtain confirmation from              - GRA Com. Dev. Officer    Final plans for provision and
beneficiaries of plans regarding                                 possible involvement in
service provision and their committed                            O&M of social services
involvement in O&lK                                              confirmed by beneficiaries
and host population
25.   Preparation of required engineering   GRA                         Approved engineering designs
designs
26.   Implementation and supervision of     -Contractors                Facilities available
required engineering works           - GRA



100
271j.  Ongoing   s t   wi        ele  rs    Resettlement Coordinator  Problems identified iand
-GRS Ene..  OtOicer                 roe
28.   Assessment of scope and needs for    - ENBPA Div. of Primary     Agricultural development plan
assistance to increase agricultural  Industry                   and budget
production and income                - GRA Env. Officer
29.   Agricultural extension services      - ENBPA Division of         New crops & impr3ved
Primary Industry           agricultural practices
30.   Monitoring & supervision
30.1  Socio-economic issues (occupancy,    - AusAID Sociologist        Quarterly reports
livelihood, incomes etc)            - GPA Soc. Dev. Officer
- Resettlement. Coordinator
30.2  Environmental issues                 GRA Env. Officer            Half-yearly reports
30.3  Engineering works                    GRA Engineer                As required
Oct98-schedule2.doc/Oct. 27, 1998



101
Annex 14
Second Gazelle Restoration Project
Consultation in Project Preparation
Provincial Workshop  GRA, GoENB, AusAid    Dec. 10, 1997       Inputs to GRA Medium
Term Program
Local Level Govt.    GRA and Presidents &    Jan. 10, 1998
Councilors from Raulana
Local Level Govt.    GRA and Presidents &    Jan. 13, 1998
Councilors from
Kokopo/Vunamami
Local Level Govt.    GRA and Councilors      Jan. 14, 1998
from Bitapaka
Local Level Govt.    GRA and Rabaul District  Jan. 14, 1998
Presidents and Rabaul
Town Authority
Local Level Govt.    GRA and Rabaul District  Jan. 15, 1998
Presidents & Councilors
Provincial Workshop  GRA, GoENB, National   Jan. 16, 1998      Draft GRA Medium
_  Planning & Impl. Office                   Term Program
Provincial Workshop  GRA, GoENB,             Jan. 26-30, 1998   Formulation of GRA
Medium Term Program
Business Forum       Business Community,     Oct. 20-21, 1998   Review of GRA
GRA, GoENB                                Medium Term Program
Provincial Workshop  GRA, GoENB,             Jan. 26-30, 1998   Formulation of GRA
Medium Term Program



102
Annex 15
Environmental Summary
Papua New Guinea: Second Gazelle Restoration Project
Introduction
The eruption of the Rabaul Volcano for the third tirne in September 1994, caused serious
economic and social dislocation of about 80,000 people. About 30,000 people in Rabaul Towr
and surrounding villages lost their homes. Much of the infrastructure facilities and services in and
around Rabaul were completely destroyed or severely damaged. There was also substantial
damage to commercial establishments and loss of inventory. About 20,000 people have soughi
permanent resettlement in other parts of the Gazelle Peninsula. While restoration efforts to daie
have been substantial (in restoring roads, health, education facilities, government agency staff
housing, etc.), much remains to be done to restore govemment services to the affected
communities, specially the substantial population made homeless.
Project
The initial phase was aimed at alleviating emergency conditions and in getting critical
reconstruction underway. This Medium-Term Development Program (MTDP) or the Second
Gazelle Restoration Project is designed to help complete the emergency restoration works started
during the initial phase, relocate displaced communities and provide services in and around the
newly designated Provincial capital at Kokopo. The proposed project includes a number of small
sub projects - the main sub projects with potential environmental impact are:
*  restoration of the Rabaul/Kokopo Road Corridor;
*  construction of the Kokopo and Rabaul urban drainage;
*  erosion control at the port of Rabaul;
*  land use management, water supply, sanitation and solid waste components of the rural
relocation sites; and
*  urban solid waste disposal.
Environmental Impacts
The construction of wastewater and stonn water drainage collection would result in
improvements in living and environmental conditions in the area, in particular through reduced
health risks and public nuisance due to flooding.
The impact of septic tanks on potential contaminatiorn of groundwater is of concern. however,
because of the permeable nature of pumice in the area. However, whilst a small reticulated
sewerage system served commercial area of Rabaul Town, all other areas used septic tanks and
drilling practices for deep wells generally conform to Australian environmental engineering
standards. Moreover, population densities will be relatively lower under the more dispersed
settlement pattern implicit in the Government's restoration strategy. Even so, technical assistanc
will be provided in the loan to support the development of institutional capability in the areas of
land use, water resources and wastewater management and protection of coastal zone resources iu
the Kokopo-Tokua Corridor. Regulation of water & sanitation throughout the Kokopo/Tokua
Corridor, including existing and proposed private sector development at Takobar will be



103
strengthened under existing land use planning arrangements. Since the population is presently
below pre-eruption levels, the carrying capacity of ground water sources is not presently an issue.
The urban solid waste component will develop solid waste disposal facilities. These
improvements will benefit the area esthetically and environmentally, reduce health risks and help
reduce flooding through reduction in blockages in the surface water drainage system.
The Government's policy is to discourage reoccupation of high risk areas in and around Rabaul
Town because of the risks of further destruction and also because of the possible health impacts
of continuing ash emissions from Mt. Tavurvur which are being monitored by the Volcanological
Observatory. Health alerts related to these ash emissions are issued regularly and, under the
project, the content of these continuing ash emissions will be tested periodically.
The major impacts associated with above projects are mostly construction related. Construction
works will cause some temporary nuisance such as increase in dust and noise, obstruction to
pedestrians and access to businesses. Some roads will need to be reconstructed within the same
right of way to increase load bearing capacity reflecting increased present traffic volumes. These
road works will cause temporary disruptions to traffic flows which will, in some cases, seek
altemative routes. However, careful planning, execution and management of the construction
activities will mitigate or minimize these impacts
Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
For the sub projects specified above, the project will prepare Environmental Management Plans
(EMP) as more site-specific planning and detailed engineering design work is available. The
EMPs will consist of mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to be taken during design,
construction and operation phases to eliminate adverse environmental impacts or to offset or
reduce them to acceptable levels. The EMPs will also include the actions needed to implement
these measures including in maintenance practices to ensure that impacts remain minimal.
During construction, provisions for effective environmental management will be incorporated in
the contract documents and contractor personnel and the local, provincial and regulatory authority
personnel will be trained to implement these measures. The EMP will also include environmental
monitoring and training components to evaluate the effectiveness of mitigation measures, to
respond to unanticipated environmental impacts during construction and operation. The training
program will be planned and implemented as part of the project component.
EMPs will be are required to be submitted for review by the Government for: i) the Rabaul-
Kokopo Road; (ii) Kokopo and Rabaul urban drainage; (iii) erosion control for the Port of
Rabaul; (vi) land use management, water supply, sanitation and solid waste components of the
relocation sites; and (v) all urban solid waste and sanitation components. Except for item (iv),
which the Bank is not financing, satisfactory a EMP will be a condition for Bank disbursements
on these components.






Figure 1: Continuing Eruptions at Mt. Tavurvur
Figure 2: Devastation of Village Near Rabaul
Figure 3: Damage at Emergency Operations Center
iS            ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D
|~~~ i
i Fw k~~~~
vb~~~ $    , ,  7 %,



Figure 4: Destructioi uf Roads & Residences in Rabaul               Figure 5: Destruction at Old Rabaul Airport
Figure 6: Rabaul-Kokopo Road (over Volcanic Ash at Mt.         Figure 7: New Coastal Protection Works on Rabaul-Kokopo
Vulcan)                                                          Road
fi ; I S |:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Figure 8: New Classrooms at Community School Near
kokopo
Figure 9. Rebuilding a School Library
-  1~~~-
Figure 10: Back to School
.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 30006
PAPUA NEW GUINEA 
15200'                                tecsriPe~~~~~~~                                                                                                                   ~~~inpt -SCN GAELLE RESTORATION PROJECT
EAST NEW BRITAIN PROVINCE
__________________________                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MEDIUM  TERM  RESTORATION PROGRAM  IMTRP)-FIRST PHASE:
KItOMETERS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AA&IIIIIIiitREHABILITATION OF                                                                                                                           HEALTH:
KILOMETERS   lo   a                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RABAUL - KOKOPO ROAD  A  HEALTH CENTERS
IUUE UPGRADING OF5ERAESNTTN
Rrt~~~~~~~ya  R  ~ ~ ~  ~     obuNATIONAL ROADASERG/ANTIO
*@@ INTENSIVE MAINTENANCEASOIWST
La5~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                    .                                                                                                          fPPLTINRLCTO                                                 A  WATER SUPPLY
POPULATIONERLOCATIONWOMEN'S GROUP SERVICES
00 _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ la- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EROSION CONTROL/
i                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HARBOR PROTECTION  POLICE
0                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STORMWATER DRAINAGE  PBI  AKT
0.9.                                                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRANSPORTATION
415'  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     E,JO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~RELOCATION SITES
a  g~B~R~NENT ADMINSTRATIONVOLCANIC DISASTER
ydkma)                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BUSINESS CENTER     ASSESSMENT AREAS:
COMMERCIAL CENTER                         AFFECTED AREAS
Ott,                                                                                                     ED ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AREAS  L-aS  . Wrs-t
COMMUNICATION:                                  PMC-CHOKED
op,                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HARBOR
RADIO
Nape  Sseeal                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~Tak      ELECTRICITY               NATIONAL RCADS,SEALED
'NARI'~ 
Keb6ker                                      ,jFIRE SERVICES                        NATIONAL ROADS, UNSEALED
Rn  ~ ~ ~ ~ r  anadedi,.  ~~~~~~~~,,/ ~~~~  asreg    rspapc                                                                                           PROVINCIAL ROADS, SEALED~~~POVNCIL RADS SELE
T- n, ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l,. ,                                                                                    'PROVINCIAL ROADS, PARTIALLY SEALED
m  I/    W_t.                                                               PAIUA                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCIAL ROADS, UNSEALED
Tr--          sit. IkA616I, in".  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~WGi,NA------ COMMUNITY ROADS
'-'-9       I~~ 1 N'T;                              EZ,3  zio  C D  TOWNSHIPS/URBAN CENTERES
abeic   Mal                                                                                                                          AUSa4  IJTRALIA  cai
Hi 56%  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~''L' 16 r'                                                                                                             00 -   ELEVATIONS IN METERS
Karovat  Tecilil  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~               ,~~~iepe,~~~e              o,e'e                  - ~~~~~'il   (       (I~~~~'       -'-'-'-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIESRNAIONA BOUDARISN(ISET
K'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NEWA4OL
ebTo.iL                                              DSraoilbn                                                            ot'T'                el'at
K- ~  ~    ~    Geie Rbteb           ~      /Plre                   
C.I.vs"~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~-,'S,r.   '
ae t,ak. "ka                                                               6 mWeree
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~10
Ba) 1oI~,  'o'-"  NAIEOCATION  "S WAREPJA            Kob NgL
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~So3h-                                                  ~                     XRLCT0                                                                                                                  0           5
R.6.tn`b__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ST
5,,                                              1)   *                                  rOerrAlcO'i.W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0'l,M      errronA                                                                                                                                                                                'cbW-ei
4' '                                                                 Ott OCATION                                                                                                     eararra,  , ,,--3,t A rp""'               'a,,,~~s RLOCAT
600                                                                                                                                                   -y                             Aoc          _
S                                                                                                                                                    5cl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c,cr Sccr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NVEBR19



