Report No. PID6730
Project Name:                    Papua New Guinea-Second Gazelle...
Restoration Project
Region:                          East Asia and Pacific
Sector:                          Urban
Project ID:                      PGPE54238
Implementing Agency:             Gazelle Restoration Authority,
Govt. of East New Britain Province
Kokopo, East New Britain, PNG
Contact: John Painap, OBE, Project Manager
Environment Category             B
Initial PID Date                 January 10, 1997
Current PID Date                 May 12, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         April 1, 1999
Tentative Board Date             September 9, 1999
1.              Country and Sector Background.   The Gazelle Peninsula has
traditionally enjoyed a vibrant economic and social environment with links
throughout the Eastern Islands region of Papua new Guinea (PNG). Indeed, the
economy of the region attracted migrant labor from throughout PNG.
Relatively high literacy rates and other social indicators reflect long-
standing attention to the coverage and quality of social services in the
province. However, on September 19, 1994, the Rabaul; Volcano erupted for
the third time in the last 100 years displacing about 80,000 people and
causing enormous economic and social dislocation. About 30,000 people in
Rabaul Town and surrounding villages lost their homes and, following
repatriation of migrant workers, about 20,000 people sought permanent
resettlement in other parts of the Gazelle Peninsula. Much of the
infrastructure facilities and services in Rabaul and surrounding areas was
completely destroyed or severely damaged and losses in government facilities
was estimated by AusAID shortly after the eruption at about US$200-220
million equivalent in 1997 prices - and a similar amount for housing. Damage
to commercial establishments and loss of inventory was also substantial.
2.              Restoration Impact to Date and Lessons Learned.    About US$ 75
million equivalent has been invested in restoration efforts to date, much of
it on roads, health and education facilities and government agency staff
housing plus developing new residential relocation areas. Notwithstanding
substantial progress made to date, much remains to be done to restore
government services to the communities affected in particular, the
substantial population made homeless. Moreover, economic activity in the
region remains below pre-eruption levels except, understandably, in the
construction sector. The following lessons learned from Phase I have been
reflected in the project design:
Project planning should be grounded in an understanding of the socio-economic
context and population dynamics provided through a social assessment.
The need for greater stakeholder consultation and participation involving
different constituencies including the business community, the population



from high-risk villages targeted for voluntary relocation, and the host
population at the relocation sites. In addition, care is required in
assessing the location and characteristic of relocation sites to support
sustainable livelihood.
The need for a broader skill base in the GRA/PIU including, in particular, in
economic, financial, urban planning, social and environmental analysis to
ensure a robust justification for future development proposals
3.              In the emergency conditions existing immediately following the
eruption, the engineering orientation of the restoration program was
appropriate and effective in getting critical reconstruction works underway.
However, a shift is required from this "reactive" approach to a broader-
based, medium-term development effort for the region reflecting economic,
social and environmental considerations also and a greater consultation with
and participation by the various constituencies including the business
community, the population from high risk villages targeted for voluntary
relocation, and the host population at the resettlement sites.
4.               Project Objectives.  The overall development objective of the
project is to support the Medium-Term Development Program of the Government
of East new Britain (GoENB). The program seeks to restore the self-
sufficiency and wellbeing of the East New Britain people to the level
prevailing prior to the 1994 volcanic disaster; whilst ensuring the
sustainability of the outcomes and minimizing adverse impacts of future
volcanic eruptions on lives, properties and livelihoods.
5.              Project Description.   Following are the key components of the
project aimed at accomplishing the objective in para. 4 above:
(a) Improving the quality of life of displaced communities through: (i) land
mobilization; (ii) infrastructure and Utility Services; (iii) social and
public safety services; and (iv) community development and economic support.
(b) Consolidation of Kokopo as Provincial Capital through: (i)
transportation Infrastructure. Restoration of the 30 km road between Rabaul
Port and Kokopo Town and its growing business sector is the highest priority
investment under the project. (ii) utility infrastructure, social services
and public safety. This includes electric power distribution, water supply
and sanitation and new schools; and (iii) economic support and government
administration. A supporting infrastructure for a new commercial center and
a fresh food market will be financed by the project.
(c) Restoration of Rabaul as a Regional Port including land management and
rehabilitation of Port-related Infrastructure and facilities and restoration
of essential utility, infrastructure and public services sub-components.
(d) Utility infrastructure and social services for N.E. Gazelle Peninsula.
(e) Institution building for (i) longer-term development planning--
establishment of a broader analytical framework for assessing and
prioritizing development options as the first, immediate restoration program
moves towards completion plus an increase in technical capacity; and (ii) R&D
into economic diversification--research expanded into cash, foodcrops,
livestock, etc.
-2-



6.              Project Cost and Financing.   The proposed Bank Loan of $25 million
would finance 62 percent of the total first phase project financing
requirements of $40.5 million. Other donor financing is expected at $5.2
million from AusAID and $4 million from the European Union leaving
counterpart funding of $6.5 million to be provided by the national
Government. Given the transitional nature of GoENB's Medium Term Development
Program, and this project, moving from an emergency response to a more
planned development effort, GoENB has been called upon to contribute to the
investment needs of its development priorities.
7.               Implementation.   Project preparation and implementation will be
coordinated and supervised by the GRA which is responsible to the Minister of
State. Under the leadership of a former Central Bank Governor, the GRA has a
track record of effective management under the first phase restoration
program and has secured the confidence of the National Government, the
business community and the population of the Gazelle Peninsula. Under the
proposed project, the GRA/PIU will: a) maintain dialogue with the various
stakeholder groups to ensure that consensus on the project's objectives and
components is sustained; and b) carry out managerial, technical and
administrative tasks required to achieve implementation of the program in
accordance with agreed time schedules. As such, the GRA/PIU will: prepare
financial forecasts and cashflow estimates; manage project financial
accounting and monitoring systems to report to government agencies, the Bank
and other donors on the physical and financial progress of the project; and
will ensure that reports and project audits are submitted to the Government
and the Bank on a timely basis; c) advise on the selection of design and
supervision consultants, prepare and issue bidding documents, assist in bid
evaluation and recommend contract awards; d) ensure project proposals reflect
economic, social and environmental aspects satisfactorily and ensure that
plans for mitigating possible negative impacts are implemented on an
effective and timely basis; and e) manage all administrative aspects of
project supervision and monitoring including critical review of contractor
and consultant performance.
8.              Poverty Category/Project Objective Categories.    The project supports
two of the Bank's program objective categories: poverty alleviation (30
percent); and environmentally sustainable development (70 percent).
9.              Environment Aspects.   This is a Category "B" project.   It is not
expected to have any major adverse environmental impacts. The Provincial
Government has recognized the need to integrate environmental planning into
the program including provision of environmental safeguards in contract
specifications and a draft provincial Environmental Policy has been prepared
and submitted for approval. Generally, the project will address
environmental problems caused by the volcanic eruption. For example slopes
will be stabilized to minimize erosion and ash exposure and other and related
toxicity will be studied in order to reassess health risks. The project has
land use management, water supply, sanitation and solid waste components
associated with the relocation sites.
10.             Social Aspects. The socio-economic impact of GRA's relocation and
rehabilitation activities during GRA I has been broadly assessed with
particular emphasis on the restoration of sustainable livelihood for the
population from the high risk areas in and around Rabaul. The total
population targeted for voluntary relocation is estimated to be around 19,000
- 3 -



persons consisting almost exclusively of Tolai, the largest ethnic group in
the Gazelle peninsula. Establishment of sustainable livelihood for the
displaced population will be a trigger point for advancing from phase I to
phase II of the program. Key indicators for this will be: a) sufficient land
for sustainable livelihood allocated to all permanently displaced families;
and b) incomes above the poverty limit for 80t of the displaced population.
During GRA II, both the population targeted for relocation and the host
communities will be involved in ongoing consultation to ensure that their
needs and concerns are taken into account and adequately addressed in project
design and implementation, especially with regard to provision of shared
social services. Thus, the objective of OD 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples 'that
indigenous peoples benefit from development projects' will be met by the
project.
Furthermore, the GRA and GoENB will assist workers affected by land
acquisition in finding alternative employment on neighboring plantations,
thus ensuring that their former living standards and earning capacity is
restored in line with the Bank's OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement, even
though the land acquisition is voluntary rather than compulsory.
11.             Benefits. The immediate benefits of the project would be to
normalize basic infrastructure provision, utility and social services to the
population most directly affected by the volcanic eruption including, in
particular, about 19,000 inhabitants to be relocated outside the high-risk
areas. For much of this group, the new relocation sites offer land-ownership
with reasonable access to growing livelihood opportunities in lower-risk
areas of the Gazelle Peninsula. Most importantly, the infrastructure and
services provided under the project would be a catalyst for economic growth
in the region. Restoring infrastructure and facilities would ensure the
continued operation of Rabaul Port, which is a transshipment point for the
entire Eastern Islands Region of PNG, which much of the economy of the
Gazelle Peninsula is based, will benefit the community at large. Relocating
the locus of settlement and business activity away from volcanic high-risk
areas should minimize economic and social disruption. The shift towards an
integrated planning framework to guide development priorities in the province
should identify ways to strengthen the planning process for infrastructure
development generally and thereby, reduce public sector costs for delivering
infrastructure and utility services. Reestablishing economic growth in the
region can be expected to help improve livelihood for the whole community and
the fiscal position of the provincial government which should enable it to
expand service provision and fulfill its commitment to restore a satisfactory
quality of life to the citizenry.
12.             Project Sustainability and Risks.   Sustainability of livelihood for
the population relocating outside the high risk areas is furnished by the
size of plots allocated, as well as the access to external sources of income,
such as employment outside the relocation sites in terms of both job
availability and accessibility to such jobs determined by distance and
transport costs. In addition, the 1999 budget of the Last New Britain
Provincial Administration emphasizes maintenance of infrastructure and public
services. This focus is likely to be continued in the following year.
13.             The principal risks include the following:    a) adequate and timely
counterpart funding is rated as high but is being dealt with through the
establishment of an executing agency trust fund; b) health effects from poor
- 4 -



air quality in Rabaul and social and economic impact of further eruptions are
also high but are being addressed through an air quality study and shifting
of population and economic activities away from the volcanic area; c)
sustained political and business community consensus on the shift to Kokopo
area considered to be only a moderate risk because of the strongly committed
political leadership in GoENB; d) ability to maintain broad-based
consultation process also a moderate risk due to degree of consultation
already undertaken with village community and other stakeholders and
heightened awareness in GRA and East New Britain Provincial Administration;
e) effective transitional arrangements for integration of GRA into GoENB
considered moderate. The high level of consensus from GRA, GoENB and multi-
agencies on institutional support to prepare for transition will further
minimize this risk; f) willingness of other donors to finance Medium-Term
Development Program for which a reduction in program scale may be required;
g) ability of GoENB to acquire additional land that may be required for
sustainable livelihood for the displaced population considered moderate as
substantial land acquisition is already completed.
EASUR/Stuart/PID2.Doc
Contact Point:
The Infoshop
The World Bank
1818 H St., N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-5454
Fax :        (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop on December 8, 1999.
- 5 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-6-



