Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4525 PNG
Project Agreement
(Second Gazelle Restoration Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
GAZELLE RESTORATION AUTHORITY
Dated January 19, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4525 PNG
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 19, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and GAZELLE RESTORATION AUTHORITY (GRA).
WHEREAS (A)
 by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between The 
Independent State of Papua New Guinea (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed 
to make available to the Borrower an amount equal to twenty-five million two hundred 
sixty thousand Dollars ($25,260,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on conditions that GRA agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a financing agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and GRA, 
the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available 
to GRA on the terms and conditions set forth in the GRA Financing Agreement; and
WHEREAS GRA, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) GRA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project (except for Part A.3 thereof) with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and GRA shall otherwise agree, GRA shall carry out the Project 
(except for Part A.3 thereof) in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c)
GRA shall enter into an agreement with ELCOM, satisfactory to the Bank, 
for ELCOM to provide the supply of electricity to and within the Project area.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; provided, however, that for the carrying out of Part A.1, Part A.2, part of 
Part B(vii), Part B(viii), Part C.2(iii), Part C.2(iv), Part C.2(vii), part of Part 
D(iii), Part D(iv) and Part E(ii) of the Project whereby consultants’ services are not 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, GRA shall retain consultants with 
qualifications and terms of employment, including terms of reference, satisfactory to 
the Bank.
Section 2.03. (a) GRA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the  Project  (except 
for Part A.3. thereof).
Section 2.04. GRA shall take all such actions as shall be necessary to enable 
the Borrower to meet its obligations under the Loan Agreement, in particular those set 
forth in Section 3.04 therein. 
Section 2.05. GRA shall duly perform all its obligations under the GRA Financing 
Agreement and ELCOM MOA.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, GRA shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the GRA Financing Agreement or the ELCOM MOA or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) GRA shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement, under the GRA Financing Agreement, under the ELCOM MOA, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) 
GRA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by GRA of its obligations under this 
Agreement, under the GRA Financing Agreement and under the ELCOM MOA.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of GRA
Section 3.01. GRA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and environmental practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Page  3
Section 3.02. GRA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and environmental practices.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) GRA shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition, and 
to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project (except for Part A.3 thereof).
(b) GRA 
shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of its financial statements 
for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and 
financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the GRA shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for 
the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project (except for Part 
A.3 thereof) in order to enable the GRA, not later than January 1, 2001, or such later 
date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare semi-annual Project management reports 
(except for Part A.3 thereof), acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for 
the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the 
six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the 
actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the GRA shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days 
after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period, in 
a form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Page  4
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
                and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For GRA:
Gazelle Restoration Authority
P.O. Box 2177
Rabaul
East New Britain Province
Papua New Guinea
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of GRA may be 
taken or executed by its Chairman or such other person or persons as GRA shall 
designate in writing, and GRA shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Klaus Rohland
Authorized Representative
Page  5
GAZELLE RESTORATION AUTHORITY
By /s/ H.E. Nagora Bogan, KBE
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program 
1. 
GRA shall maintain at all times during the implementation of the Project, the 
Project Implementation Unit, headed by a Manager with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Bank, with such functions, responsibilities and funds and with 
competent staff in adequate numbers, including an accountant with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be required for the day-to-day 
implementation of the Project, including the preparation of Project reports, the 
maintenance of consolidated Project accounts, and the implementation of procurement 
activities. 
2. 
GRA shall by September 30 in each year, commencing on September 30, 2000,  
furnish to the Bank, for its concurrence, a proposed annual work program and budget 
for Project activities in the following calendar year, and, thereafter implement such 
annual work plans, as so approved.
3. 
GRA shall ensure that Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project shall be implemented in 
accordance with a plan prepared with the informed consultation of the host 
communities, including ethnic minorities, residing in the vicinity of the relocation 
sites, satisfactory to the Bank. 
4. 
GRA shall ensure that Part A.1 of the Project shall be implemented with due 
regard to the Policy for Rural Settlement and Resettlement.  To that end, the GRA 
shall apply the said Policy in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
5.
By June 30, 2000, GRA shall submit for review by the Bank, an action plan for 
the regulation of water and sanitation throughout the Kokopo and Tokua Corridor, which 
plan shall include recommendations concerning proposed private sector development at 
Takubar, and thereafter, taking into account Bank’s comments, if any, carry out such 
plan for the regulation of water and sanitation in said Corridor.
6.
GRA shall for each activity under Parts A.1, B (i), B (iii), B (ix), C.1 (ii) 
and C.1 (iii) of the Project prepare an Environmental Management Plan, satisfactory to 
the Bank, and thereafter implement such Plans accordingly. 
7.
GRA shall enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with ELCOM for 
ELCOM to provide an adequate supply of electricity to and within the resettlement 
sites under the Project.
8.
GRA shall:
 
(a)
conduct, in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and thereafter furnish to the Bank for its review, the following studies under Part C 
of the Project: (i) by June 30, 2001, a study for a longer-term economic and spatial 
framework and implementation strategy for the region; (ii) by June 30, 2001, a study 
of air quality and environmental health effects of ongoing ash emissions from Mt. 
Tavurvur; (iii) by December 31, 2001, research into cash and foodcrops, livestock and 
fisheries development, cocoa and coffee; and (iv) by June 30, 2001, a final report 
outlining actions to be taken to implement the program on institutional strengthening 
of the Administration of  ENBG.
(b)
promptly thereafter, take appropriate steps to implement the 
recommendations of such studies and report, taking into account the comments of the 
Bank thereon. 
9. GRA 
shall: 
Page  6
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about June 30, 2001, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and review with the Bank, by September 
30, 2001, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views 
on the matter.
10.
GRA shall by January 31, 2000, establish and thereafter maintain, the Village 
Development Fund in accordance with operational procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement  
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, in September 1997, and in 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.  
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
(c)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided for in paragraphs C.2 and C.3 of this Section, works 
estimated to cost less than $ 500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $ 4,250,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
Page  7
2.
Community Participation 
Works required for road restoration and reconstruction, small works in 
relocation sites, erosion control, and, except as provided for in paragraph 3 below, 
small works under the Village Development Fund under Part D (v) of the Project,  shall 
be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. 
3.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works under the Village Development Fund under Part D (v) of the Project 
estimated to cost less than $ 30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
4.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $30,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply with respect to: (i) each contract to be procured under International 
Competitive Bidding; (ii) each contract for water and sanitation procured under 
National Competitive Bidding procedures estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 
or more;  and (iii) contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or 
more.  
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of \0cthe Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
Page  8
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for carrying out studies under Part E of the Project for cash and food 
crops, livestock and fisheries development, cocoa and coffee shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
