Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4525 PNG
Loan Agreement
(Second Gazelle Restoration  Project)
between
THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 19, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4525 PNG
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 19, 2000, between THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW 
GUINEA (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) the Bank has received a letter dated May 3, 1999, from the Borrower 
describing a program designed to shift economic activity in East New Britain Province 
towards lower risk areas, evacuate rural populations from devastated and high risk 
areas, and restore infrastructure and services to ensure effective operation of Rabaul 
port and the integrated development of the Gazelle Peninsula (the Program), and 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(C)
the Borrower has requested that the Bank support the Borrower’s execution 
of the Program through a series of loans over a period of approximately six years, to 
be utilized by the Borrower in the implementation of the Program; 
(D)
the Project (except for Part A. 3 thereof) will be carried out by the 
Gazelle Restoration Authority (“GRA”) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of 
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to GRA the proceeds of the Loan as 
provided in this Agreement;  
(E)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Commonwealth of Australia 
(Australia) a grant (the Australian Grant) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal 
Page  2
amount equivalent to AUD60,000 to assist in financing Part E(ii) of the Project on the 
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and Australia (the Australian Grant Agreement);  
(F)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the European Union a grant (the EU 
Grant) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to $3,000,000 to 
assist in financing of part of Part A.1, part of Part A.2, part of Part B(vii), Part 
C.2(iv), Part C.2(vii), part of Part D(iii), and Part D(iv) of the Project on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the European Union (EU Grant Agreement); and 
(G)
the Borrower has entered into an agreement with the Asian Development 
Bank dated June 25, 1993 (the ADB Loan Agreement) to secure a loan in an aggregate 
amount equivalent to SDR 5,183,000 (the ADB Loan) for purposes, inter alia, to assist 
in financing part of Part B(vii) of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth 
in the ADB Loan Agreement;  
(H)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms the 
first phase of the Program, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Affected Person" means a person who on account of the acquisition of  
land, including plantation land, for purposes of establishing relocation sites under 
Part A.1 of the Project had or would have his or her: (i) standard of living adversely 
affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, or interest in or right to 
use any land  (including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or right in annual 
or perennial crops and trees or any other fixed or movable asset, acquired or 
possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work or place of 
residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or permanently, and "Affected 
Persons" means, collectively, all persons who qualify as an Affected Person.  
(b)
“ENBPG” means the East New Britain Provincial Government, a political 
sub-division of the Borrower. 
(c)
“ELCOM” means the Papua New Guinea Electricity Commission established 
under the Electricity Commission Act, Chapter 78, and any successor thereto. 
(d)
 “ELCOM MOA” means the agreement to be entered into between ELCOM and GRA 
pursuant to Section 3.01 of this Agreement.
(e)
“Environmental Management Plan” with respect to any part of the Project, 
means the set of mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures to be taken during 
implementation and operation of such part of the Project, to eliminate any adverse 
environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, 
including a plan of actions needed to implement such measures. 
(f)
“Executing Agency Trust Account” means the account established by GRA in 
Page  3
a commercial bank in Kokopo for the deposit of counterpart financing for the costs of 
goods and services required to carry out the Project not financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan. 
(g)
"GRA" means the Borrower’s Gazelle Restoration Authority established 
under the Gazelle Restoration Act (No. 1) of 1995, and any successor thereto. 
(h) 
“GRA Financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and GRA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time. 
(i)
“Harbours Board” means the Papua New Guinea Harbours Board established 
and operating under the Harbours Board Act, Chapter 240, and any successor thereto.
(j)
"Papua New Guinea Kina" and "K" mean the currency of the Borrower.  
(k)
 “Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and GRA of even 
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
(l)
“Project Implementation Unit” and the acronym “PIU” mean the unit 
established within GRA on May 23, 1995.
(m)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement.
(n)
“Policy on Rural Settlement and Resettlement” means the policy, 
satisfactory to the Bank, approved by the Provincial Executive Council of ENBPG dated 
December 7, 1998, Decision No. 67/98 for carrying out the relocation of population 
from high risk areas under Part A of the Project, as such Policy may be amended from 
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank. 
(o)
“Policy for Relocation and Compensation” means the framework for 
relocation and compensation of Affected Persons, satisfactory to the Bank, approved by 
the Provincial Executive Council of ENBPG dated April 15, 1999, Decision No. S011-13;
(p)
“Vunakambi Resettlement Action Plan” means the plan for the resettlement 
and rehabilitation of the Affected Persons in the Vunakambi relocation site under Part 
A.1 of the Project, satisfactory to the Bank, approved by the Administrator of East 
New Britain Province April 15, 1999, as such Plan may be amended from time to time by 
agreement between the Bank and the Administrator of the East New Britain Province.
(q)
“Steering Committee” means the Committee established by the Borrower 
pursuant to Section 3.05 of this Agreement. 
(r)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
(s)
“Village Development Fund” is the fund established and managed by GRA 
pursuant to paragraph 10 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement to finance 
community-based infrastructure and services, community development activities and 
promotion of economic activities. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
twenty-five million two hundred sixty thousand Dollars ($25,260,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Page  4
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in the amount of one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of the said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.  
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on May 15 
and  November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end shall: (i) 
through ENBPG, carry out Part A.3 of the Project; (ii) cause GRA to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the GRA Project Agreement all of the obligations of 
GRA therein set forth;  (iii) cause ELCOM and GRA each to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the ELCOM  MOA all of the obligations of ELCOM and GRA therein set 
forth; and (iv) take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources necessary or appropriate to enable GRA 
and ELCOM to perform their respective obligations, and shall not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) 
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan to GRA on a 
grant basis under a financing agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
GRA, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
(c)
The Borrower shall cause ELCOM and GRA to enter into an agreement, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to provide the supply of electricity to and within the 
Project area.  
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the GRA Financing Agreement 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the GRA Financing Agreement or any 
provisions thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project (except Part A.3 
thereof) and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
Page  5
(except Part A.3 thereof). 
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall on each calendar quarter, commencing on 
October 1, 1999 and thereafter, deposit into the Executing Agency Trust Account in 
Kina, amounts sufficient to cover counterpart funding for estimated disbursements 
under the Project for the succeeding three month period; provided, however, that the 
first deposit to be done on October 1, 1999, shall cover the total expenditures to be 
incurred by GRA on account of the Project during the calendar quarter ending on 
December 31, 1999.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall establish and, thereafter, maintain at all 
times during the implementation of the Project, a Steering Committee chaired by GRA 
and with representatives of ENBPG, the National Department of Transport and Works, the 
National Water Board, ELCOM, the Harbours Board, the National Broadcasting 
Corporation, Cocoa and Coconut Research Institute, and the National Agricultural 
Research Institute, assigned with such functions and responsibilities, satisfactory to 
the Bank, as shall be required  for the overall coordination and oversight of Project 
implementation.  The Steering Committee shall meet quarterly to review progress 
reports and to resolve any issues arising in the implementation of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that the Affected Persons in the 
relocation site located at Vunakambi therein shall be compensated, resettled and 
rehabilitated in accordance with the Vunakambi Resettlement Action Plan.  In the 
unforeseeable event that additional resettlement sites under Part A.1 of the Project 
may give rise to Affected Persons, the Borrower shall, through ENBPG, ensure that the 
Affected Persons shall be compensated, resettled and rehabilitated in accordance with 
action plans satisfactory to the Bank prepared in accordance with the Policy for 
Relocation and Compensation. For such purposes, the Borrower shall, through ENBPG, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank for its concurrence such action plans, and, 
thereafter, carry the said action plans as so approved.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary to 
adequately maintain, through ENBPG,  the road between Rabaul Port and Kokopo Town 
being restored under Part B.1 of the Project, including provision of annual budgetary 
allocations thereof based on the estimated funding levels furnished by ENBPG to the 
Borrower’s Department of Treasury and Planning by not later than September 30 of each 
calendar year, commencing on September 30, 2000; provided, further, the said budgetary 
funding shall be made available by the Borrower to ENBPG on a quarterly basis.
Section 3.08. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01(a) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Harbours Board to adequately maintain, with 
the Board’s own resources, the Rabaul Port related infrastructure, including the silt 
traps.  For these purposes, GRA shall hand over to the Harbours Board the operation 
and maintenance of the Rabaul Port facilities rehabilitated under Part C.1 of the 
Project promptly upon their completion.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall:
 (a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about June 30, 2001, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by September 30, 2001, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Page  6
Section 3.10. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out. 
(b)
The Australian Grant and the EU Grant shall have failed to become 
effective by July 31, 2000 or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, 
however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. 
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of the Australian Grant and the 
EU Grant or any other grant 
or loan made to the Borrower for 
the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled 
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the 
agreement providing therefor.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination 
or prematuring in case of 
loans is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the 
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement; 
(d)
GRA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement, or GRA or ELCOM shall have failed to perform any of their respective 
obligations under the ELCOM  MOA. 
(e)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that GRA or ELCOM will be able to perform their respective obligations under the 
Project Agreement or the ELCOM MOA.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
any of the events specified in paragraph (d) of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and 
(b)
the event specified in paragraphs (b) and (c)(i) of Section 4.01 shall 
occur, subject to the proviso in paragraph (b) and in paragraph (c)(ii), respectively. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Page  7
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
that the GRA Financing Agreement has been executed between the Borrower 
and GRA; 
(b)
that the ELCOM MOA has been duly executed between ELCOM and GRA; 
(c)
that the Executing Agency Trust Account has been established in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, with an initial 
deposit of not less than K2,500,000;  
(d)
that the Steering Committee has been established in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.05 of this Agreement; and 
(e)
that the Project Accountant has been retained in accordance with the 
provisions of  paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 of the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:  
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by GRA, 
and is legally binding upon GRA in accordance with its terms;  
(b)
that the GRA Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower and GRA and is legally binding upon the Borrower and GRA in accordance 
with its terms;  
(c)
that the ELCOM MOA has been duly authorized or ratified by ELCOM and GRA, 
respectively, and is legally binding upon ELCOM and GRA in accordance with its terms; 
(d)
that the provisions of the  Policy on Rural Settlement and Resettlement, 
of the Policy for Relocation and Compensation, and of the Vunakambi Resettlement 
Action Plan are legally valid and enforceable in accordance with the laws of  the 
Independent State of Papua New Guinea. 
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Treasury and Planning of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry for Treasury and Planning
Department for Treasury and Planning
P.O. Box 710
Waigani
Port Moresby
Papua New Guinea
Cable address: 
Telex:
NE 22218
Page  8
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
   and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
By /s/ H.E. Nagora Bogan KB
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Klaus Rohland
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
Amount of
   % of
        the Loan Allocated
Expenditures
      Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
To be Financed
(1)(a) Works for Ah Tam
145,000
78%
Dawapia wharves
under Part C(1)(i)
of the Project
(1)(b) Works for urban
     1,090,000
78%
drainage in Kokopo
and Rabaul under
Part B(iii) and C(1)(iii)
of the Project
(1)(c) Works for the
     5,383,000
78% 
Rabaul-Kolopo Road
Under Part B(i)
of the Project
(1)(d) Works for Erosion
211,000
78%
Control at Rabaul Port
under Part C(1)(ii)
of the Project
Page  9
(1)(e) Works for Urban Solid
197,000
78%
Waste and Sanitation
under Part B(ix)
of the Project
(1)(f) Works for Government
     1,364,000
33% 
Administration Center
under Part B(viii)
of the Project
(1)(g) Works under other
     7,132,000
78%
Parts of the Project
(2)
Goods
293,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
55% of local expen-
ditures for other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants' services     4,258,000
100%
(4)
Fee
252,600
Amount due pursuant
to Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement 
(5)
Unallocated
     4,934,400
TOTAL
           25,260,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$1,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after January 1, 1999; and
(b)
Categories 1(b) through (e), until an Environmental Management Plan, 
prepared in accordance with paragraph 6 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, with 
respect to the activities to be financed under each such Category has been furnished 
to the Bank.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing 
less than $30,000 equivalent; (b) works under contracts costing less than $500,000;  
(c) services provided by consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent; and (d) services provided by individual consultants under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Page  10
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to: (i) provide to the 
people of the Gazelle Peninsula with government services similar to those that were 
destroyed by the volcanic eruption in 1994; and (ii) ensure sustainability of social 
and economic well-being and minimize adverse impacts of future volcanic eruptions on 
lives, property and livelihood in the Gazelle Peninsula.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:
Displaced Communities 
1.  
Relocation of  communities displaced by the volcanic eruption in 1994, through 
provision of relocation sites, agricultural land, internal site roads, electricity,  
water supply, and sanitation. 
2.  
Provision of services for community development and economic support in the 
relocation sites under Part A.1 above, through agricultural extension services, 
improved access to schools, vocational and skills training, health and police 
services. 
3.
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons.
Part B:
Kokopo Town
Upgrading of Kokopo Town through: (i) restoration of the road between Rabaul 
Port and Kokopo Town, (ii) restoration of the Burmah Road, (iii) restoration of roads 
and drains within Kokopo Town, (iv) upgrading the solid waste disposal facilities, (v) 
provision of back-up generators for essential public service facilities, (vi) 
upgrading facilities at the Butuwin health center, (vii) construction of an elementary 
school and facility for women’s community activities, (viii) a government 
administration center and a commercial center, and (ix) assessment of human waste 
treatment options in Kokopo Town.
Part C:
Rabaul Port 
1.
Rehabilitation of port-related infrastructure and facilities at Rabaul Port, 
through (i) restoration and upgrading of Ah Tam and Dawapia wharves, (ii) provision of 
erosion control, and (iii) rehabilitation of Blanche Street and Kokopo Road and storm 
water drains.
2.
Restoration of essential utility, infrastructure and public services at Rabaul 
Town/Port, through: (i) rehabilitation of mains water supply, (ii) rehabilitation of 
storm water drains , (iii) construction of market facilities, (iv) restoration of 
education facilities,  (v) rehabilitation of the town clinic, (vi) provision of back 
up electrical power generators for essential public service facilities, and (vii) 
facility for women’s community activities.
Part D:
Gazelle Peninsula 
Establishment of a less concentrated human settlement pattern in the Gazelle 
Peninsula, through development of provincial townships in the North East area of the 
Gazelle Peninsula, including (i) restoration of the road from Baliora to Warangoi 
Bridge, (ii) provision of water supply at Baliora, (iii) expansion of existing high 
schools and health centers, (iv) construction of a facility for women's community 
activities, and (v) establishment and operation of the Village Development Fund.
Part E:
Economic Planning and Diversification 
Support to develop institutional capacity in the areas of land use, water 
resources and wastewater management and protection of coastal zone resources, 
including (i) carrying out of a study for a longer-term economic and spatial framework 
and implementation strategy for the North East Gazelle Peninsula, including 
preparation of a management plan and a hazards mitigation plan for the coastal zone 
area thereof; (ii) carrying out of a study of air quality and environmental health 
effects of ongoing ash emissions from Mt. Tavurvur; (iii) carrying out of research 
Page  11
into cash and food crops, livestock and fisheries development, cocoa and coffee, and 
expansion of the Cocoa and Coconut Extension Agency; (iv) development of an 
agricultural diversification strategy; (v) provision of an incinerator for the 
Department of Agriculture and Livestock; and (vi) provision of consultants’ services 
for the foregoing. 
Carrying out of a program of institutional strengthening for the Administration 
of the East New Britain Government, including planning and development, staff training 
and provision of consultants’ services.
Strengthening of GRA’s accounting, financial management and monitoring and 
reporting capabilities through development of a computerized accounting system, 
including provision of computer hardware and software, staff training and consultants’ 
services. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions 
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period. 
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn. 
B.
Interest 
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
Page  12
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings: 
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollar for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date preceding 
the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions thereof 
allocated by 
the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include such Disbursed Amount for such Interest Period; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollar for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount: 
(i)
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency loans or portions 
thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus the Bank's 
risk spread 
applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed 
Amount; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as 
a percentage per annum. 
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof. 5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice 
affecting the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the 
Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank 
to apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than 
as provided in this Schedule, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the 
interest rates applicable to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than 
six (6) months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become 
effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank 
during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not 
apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment 
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each May 
15 and November 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount. 
Page  13
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after May 15, 2015, the Borrower shall also pay on said date 
the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $2,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $10,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
Page  14
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of the Project Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect 
of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
