                                    Documentof
                                The World Bank




                                                   ReportNo.: 32677-LC




             PROJECTPERFORMANCEASSESSMENTREPORT

                                     ST. LUCIA

      WATERSHED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                    (CREDIT 2768-SLUAND LOAN3925-SLU)

                                        AND

  EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND DISASTER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
                    (CREDIT 3151-SLUAND LOAN4419-SLU)

                                   June 27,2005




Sector, Thematic, and Global Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit = East Caribbean dollar ('CD)

1995                      US$1.oo
                          US$1.oo               XCD 2.700
1997                                            XCD 2.699
1998                      US$1.oo
                          US$l.OO               XCD 2.699
2004                                            XCD 2.670



Abbreviations and Acronyms

CARICOM           Caribbean Community
CDB               Caribbean Development Bank
CDERA            Caribbean Disaster Emergency ReliefAgency
CDMP             Caribbean Disaster MitigationProject
C M U            Crisis Management Unit
DDC              District Disaster Committee
EOC              EmergencyOperations Center
ERDMP            Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project
ERL              Emergency RecoveryLoan
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
IDA              InternationalDevelopment Association
ICR              ImplementationCompletion Report
MOCWT            MinistryofCommunication, Works andTransport
MOP              Memorandum and Recommendation o f the President
NEMAC            National Emergency Management Advisory Committee
NEMO             National Emergency Management Office
NEOC             National Emergency Operations Centre
N M S            National Meteorological Service
OAS              Organization o fAmerican States
OD               Operation Directive
ODP              Office o f Disaster Preparedness
OECS             Organization o f Eastern Caribbean States
OED              Operations EvaluationDepartment
OFDA             Office o fU S ForeignDisaster Assistance
SIDS             Small IslandDeveloping States
PCDPP            Pan Caribbean Disaster Preparednessand PreventionProject
PCU              Project CoordinationUnit
PPAR             Project Performance Assessment Report
S A P            Systems, Application, Products
SDR              Special DrawingRights
USAID            United States Agency for International Development
WEMP             Watershed and EnvironmentalManagement Project

FiscalYear
Government:               January 1-December 1



Acting Director-General, Operations Evaluation        : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Acting Director, Operations EvaluationDepartment      : Mr.R. Kyle Peters
Manager, OEDSG                                        : Mr.Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                          : Mr.RonaldParker

                                                              i


    OED Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthroughexcellenceand independencein evaluation.
 About this Report
      The Operations Evaluation Departmentassessesthe programsand activities of the World Bankfor two
 purposes:first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank'sself-evaluationprocessand to verify that the Bank`s work is
 producingthe expected results, and second,to helpdevelop improveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough
 the dissemination of lessonsdrawnfrom experience.As part of this work, OED annuallyassessesabout 25 percentof
 the Bank's lendingoperations. In selectingoperationsfor assessment, preferenceis given to those that are
 innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;thosefor which
 ExecutiveDirectors or Bank managementhave requestedassessments;and those that are likely to generate
 important lessons.The projects,topics, and analyticalapproachesselectedfor assessmentsupport larger evaluation
 studies.
      A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the ImplementationCompletion
 Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department)and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
 PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
 the borrowing country for onsite discussions with projectstaff and beneficiaries. The PPARthereby seeks to
 validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
 OED studies.
      Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED managementapproval. Once cleared internally,the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank departmentand amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
 sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers'comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank`s
 Board of Executive Directors. After,an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.
 About the OED Rating System
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale usedfor each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
 http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, CountryAssistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectiveswere achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the projectachieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Susfainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnstitutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resourcesthrough: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability,and predictability of institutional arrangements andlor (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. InstitutionalDevelopment Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project`s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expectedto be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementationthrough appropriatesupervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extentto which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparationand implementation,and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                       ...
                                                                       111



 Contents

 Principal Ratings          ................................................................................................................          v

 Key Staff Responsible               ........................................................................................................         v

 Preface   ..............................................................................................................................           vii

 Summary      ...........................................................................................................................            ix

 1 NaturalHazards and SmallIslandStates
  .                                                                          ..................................................................       1

         Land Suitability andActual Use: An EnvironmentalMismatch.............................                                                       -1
         Tropical Storm Debbie Hits St. Lucia......................................................................                                   1
         National and Regional Institutional Capacityfor Disaster Management ...............2

 2 Three Bank-Financed Disaster Projects
  .                                                                        ....................................................................       3

         Watershed and Environmental Management Project..............................................                                                 3
         Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Program.....................................                                                      4

 3 Implementation: IntendedOutcomes and UnexpectedResults
  .                                                                                                                  ..............................   6

         Watershed andEnvironmenta1Management Project..............................................                                                   6
         RetrainingRivers ..................................................................................................... 7
         ERDMP....................................................................................................................                    9

4 Achievement of Objectives
  .                                                ........................................................................................         14

         WEMP.....................................................................................................................                  14
        ERDMP..................................................................................................................                     15

5 Conclusions and Lessons
 .                                             ...........................................................................................          19

        An Evolving Bank Strategy in the Caribbean........................................................                                          20
        Ratingsfor the WEMPProject ..............................................................................                                   21
        Ratingsfor the ERDMP Project ............................................................................                                   18
        Lessons...................................................................................................................                  22

Annex A Basic Data Sheet
           .                                ..............................................................................................          23

Annex B    .Borrower           Comments            .......................................................................................          26

Annex C    .Disasters         Causing Significant Damage in St Lucia (25-year period)       .                                                ........27

This reportwas preparedbyRonaldParker and Silke Heuser. who assessedthe projectinJune of 2004. The
report was editedby William Hurlbut. andHelenPhillip providedadministrativesupport                                          .

                                                                         iv


Annex E. SupplementalInformationonProjectObjectives and Components                                                                     ..........31
Boxes

Box 1.Evolution and Functioning o f the Institutional Framework for Disaster inSt. Lucia
.............................................................................................................................................     3
Box 2. Watershed and Environmental Management Project Objectives and Components 4
Box 3. Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project Objectives and
Components ........................................................................................................................               5
Box 4. No Longer Using Schools for Emergency Shelter: The St. Kitts Experience                                                            .......12

Tables

Table 1. The Effectiveness o f the Rehabilitation Works Undertaken ................................                                               8

Figures

Figure 1. Sequence of St. Lucia Disaster-Related Operations............................................                                           4

                                                           V



 PrincipalRatings

-                                       ICR*                              ES*                           PPPAR
                                                                                              ~


 Watershed and Environmental Management Project (Credit 2768-SLU and Loan 3925-SLU)

 Outcome                             Satisfactory                     Satisfactory             Moderately Unsatisfactory

 Sustainability                       Uncertain                        Uncertain                         Unlikely

 Institutional                       Substantial                      Substantial                      Substantial
 DevelopmentImpact
 Bank Performance                 Highly Satisfactory             Highly Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

--
 Borrower Performance        --      Satisfactory                     Satisfactory     _ . - ~ . , -   Satisfactory
                                                                                                                        I_

 Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Program (Credit 3151-SLU and Loan 4419-SLU)
 Outcome                             Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                     Satisfactory

 Sustainability                         Likely                           Likely                           Likely

 Institutional                       Substantial                      Substantial                      Substantial
 DevelopmentImpact
 Bank Performance                    Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                     Satisfactory

 Borrower Performance               Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                     Satisfactory


  The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the Bank.
 The ICR Review is an intermediate Operations Evaluation Department (OED) product that seeks to independently verify
 the findings of the ICR.


 Key Staff Responsible
Project                            Task ManagedLeader                  Division Chief/               Country Director
                                                                       Sector Director
~
Watershed and Environmental Management Project (Credit 2768-SLUand Loan 3925-SLU)
  Appraisal                          Mr. CesarA. Plaza                 NicholasKrafft                   YoshiakiAbe
  Completion                        Maria Donoso Clark              MarittaKoch-Weser            Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Program (Credit 3151-SLUand Loan 4419-SLU)

  Appraisal                          Eugene McCarthy                 Daniel M. Leipziger         Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
  Comdetion                         FrancisGhesquiere                Daniel M. Leipziger             Caroline D. Anstey


                                               vii


Preface

This is a ProjectPerformance Assessment Report (PPAR) onthe Watershed and
Environmental Management Project (WEMP, Credit 2768-Slu and Loan 3925-Slu) and
the Emergency Recovery Disaster Management Project (ERDMP, Credit 3151-Sluand
Loan 4419-Slu). For the WEMP project the World Bank approved a loan inthe amount
o f $2.65 million and a credit for SDR 1.7 million, equivalent to the same amount on July
 14, 1995. The effectiveness date was October 10, 1995, and the operation was closed on
December 31,1997. For the ERDMP project the World Bank approved two credits and
thee loans inthe amount o f SDR 4 million and $14.07 million respectively on December
 10, 1998. Originally, ERDMP was packaged as a multi-countryprogram for the
Organization o f Eastern Caribbean States. During post-approval negotiations, a credit o f
SDR2.2 million and a loanof$3.04 millionwere earmarked as beingspecificallyfor St.
Lucia. The loans and credits were made effective on August 13, 1999. The original
closing date was January 31,2002, and it was actually closed on October 31,2003.

This assessment covers an uninterruptedinvolvement ofthe Bankinsupport ofthe
Government o f St. Lucia as it confronted a series o f storm disasters andthe country's
overall disaster vulnerability. The report i s baseduponreviews o f the Implementation
CompletionReports (ICRs), the Memoranda and Recommendations o fthe President
(MOPS),legaldocuments, project files, anddiscussions with Bank staffinvolvedwith the
project. OED fielded a missionto St. Lucia inMay o f 2004 to review the project results,
This PPARwill inform a forthcoming OED evaluation ofBank assistanceinthe context
o fnaturaldisasters.

Because St. Lucia i s a relatively small island, it was possible for the PPAR mission to
visit most o fthe infrastructure constructedunderthe two assessed projects, including,
inter alia, the bulk o fthe river training, and erosion control works for road andriver
stabilization(see Annex F for a list o f site visits). The mission appreciatesthe courtesies
andattention givenby interlocutors andit also gratefully acknowledges the logistical
support provided.

Following standard OED procedures, copies o f the draft PPARwas sent to government
officials and agencies for their review and comments. The comments received are
attached.


                                                1


 1. NaturalHazards and SmallIsland States

 LandSuitability andActualUse: An EnvironmentalMismatch

 1.       St. Luciahas a ruggedtopography with steep mountains andnarrow river valleys.
 Rainfall commonly exceeds 150 inches yearly, butpeak downpours are short induration.
 The rivers and gullies fillrapidly after heavy rains, and a devastating flood canbe over in
 a few hours. But duringthat period, large amounts o ftopsoil are washed from fields to
 gullies to streams. The riversmove the silt to the sea, where it damages the fragile coral
 reefs that protect the island's periphery. Often enormous social and economic losses
 result, as flash floods destroy settlements and croplands.

 2.      Botho fthe Bankprojects evaluated inthis performance assessment focused on
 damage from tropical storms. They included both forward-looking andbackward-looking
 activities: reducingthe destructive potentialo fthe next storm byplanning(the improved
management o fwatersheds) and other preventiveactivities together with restoration, repair,
 andreconstruction ofdamages already suffered. Theaccomplishments ofthetwo projects,
the Watershed andEnvironmentalManagement Project (WEMP, Credit 2768-Slu as well
as Loan3925-Slu) and the Emergency Recovery Disaster Management Project (ERDMP,
Credit 3151-Sluand Loan4419-Slu), needto beunderstoodwithin the context o fhow
often andinwhat manner disasters affect St. Lucia.

3.       Only about 6 percent o f all available land i s considered prime for agriculture.
Increasingly, farmers have been clearing forests to bringmore land under cultivation,
moving inthe process to steeper, higher land. The govemment has constructed feeder
roads to service these remote areas. This intum encouraged further cultivation in
adjacent areas and removed the vegetative cover from the country's most steeply sloping
areas. Poor farmers have every incentive to continue degrading the hillside environment
that putsthe more productive lowlands at risk, while they have no incentives to invest
resources or efforts inenvironmentalprotections. The degradation o f the environment i s a
gradual process, but hurricanes and tropical storms hasten the process temporarily and
highlight the degree o f deterioration.

4.       Inadditionto its vulnerability to flashflooding, St. Lucia is also vulnerable to
slower onset floods, landslides, earthquakes, and tidal surges. It also has to confront the
technological disasters that regularly strike all countries, such as planecrashes, oil spills,
and disrupted telecommunications (see Annex C).

Tropical StormDebbieHits St. Lucia

5.       Tropical StormDebbieinSeptember 1994 was one o fthe worst storms to hit St.
Lucia inlivingmemory. Massive landslides beganto occur inquick succession.
Ultimately, over 400 took place inthe immediate vicinity o f inhabitedareas. Trees and
debris choked gullies, creatingflimsy dams that trapped enormous quantities o fwater
before givingway, washing away bridgesand flooding adjoining farmland. Six bridges
were completely washed away and four more were heavily damaged. Damage to feeder
roads paralyzed the shippingo f agriculturalproduce. Studies o f coral reefs following

                                                    2


 Debbie(with samplingpoints 250-1,250 meters from three river mouths) found coral
 mortality as highas 50 percent.'

 6.      Heavyraininthe preceding weeks had already saturatedthe soil. The storm
 damage was concentrated around the cities o fDennery, Anse LaRaye, and Soufkiere.
 Official estimates o f losses variedbetween 13 and 15 percent o fthe 1993 GDP.There were
 four deaths, and 600 people were movedto emergency shelters. The entire country lost
 access to freshpotable water. Electricityandtelephone service were disrupted.

 7.      Theunprecedented devastation ledto thewidespread realization that the way St.
 Luciawas being environmentally managedwas seriously wrong. DuringDebbie even
 protected riverbanks eroded, culverts were washed away, and river channels rerouted.
 Afterwards, riverbeds lay dry andproductive farmlands turnedinto watercourses. As
 much as 10percent o f the productive land was lost due to storm damage andriver
relocation.* All river stabilizationand drainage works neededurgentmaintenance and/or
repair before the next rainy season. Estimates o f the returnperiodfor a similar event were
made. Results varied greatly according to community and district, but some areas could
 expect to face similar rainfall within the next two years-underscoring           the needto
immediately improve watershed management.

 8.      Following Debbie, the Government o f St. Lucia asked for World Bank assistance
to repair the damage andto increase its readiness to respond to future disasters.

National and RegionalInstitutional Capacity for Disaster Management

9.       Inthe early 1 9 9 0EasternCaribbeannations generally hadlimitedlevels of
                               ~ ~
preparedness, lacked erosion control measures, andhad only rudimentarydisaster
response capability. St. Luciawas no exception: as late as 1994 its Office o f Disaster
Preparedness(ODP) consisted o f only one professional(see Box 1). Furthermore, the
office had so little credibility that when it issued emergency warnings, they were ignored.

10.     The OrganizationofEastern Caribbean States (OECS) was established bythe
Treaty o f Basseterre on June 18, 1981. The OECS was created to foster cost-saving,
cross-country agreements, and to cope with the highper capita cost o f administrative
services inthe small islands. Most o f the OECS' nine member states have worked with
the World Bank on projects focusing on disaster management, airport security, education,
solid waste management, and other issues. They have often used the OECS as an
administrativebody when regional and national governments' interests overlap. Steps
which the OECS countries have taken to reduce their vulnerability to natural disasters
include: stimulating preparedness and coordinatingreliefoperations; undertaking
disaster-related training; drafting laws and regulations to strengthennational and
community disaster awareness; and engaging businessand industryresources to support
preparedness. The Caribbean Community (CARICOM) countries formed the Caribbean

1.Study by Sladek, Nowlis, Roberts, Smith and Siirila cited inGovernment of St. LuciaMinistryof
Planning and Development, WEMP Phase I1Final Report, November 1997.
2. Government of St. Lucia Ministry of Planning and Development, WEMP Phase I1FinalReport,
November 1997.

                                                      3


 Disaster Emergency ReliefAgency (CDERA) which initially focused on relief
 coordinationbut has now launched a program aimed at evaluating the economic impact
 ofhurricanes inthe short, medium, and longterm.


 Box 1.EvolutionandFunctioningof the InstitutionalFrameworkfor Disaster Preparedness
 andResponsein St. Lucia

 Exactly when St. Lucia established an office to deal with disasters i s not clear, but by 1990 there
 was such an office being run by a National Disaster Coordinator. The first regional disaster
 prevention effort, the Pan Caribbean Disaster Preparedness and Prevention Project (PCDPP), ran
 from 1980 to 1991. A year later, in 1991, St. Lucia and 15 other Caribbean States signed the
 Articles that created the CDERA. InFebruary 1995, St. Lucia's Office o f Disaster Preparedness
 increased its staff from two to three, adding the post o f Deputy Disaster Coordinator. Then in
 March 2000 the Office o f Disaster Preparedness was renamed the National Emergency
 Management Office (NEMO). NEMO i s responsible for having St. Lucia in a state o f
 preparedness for a disaster, as well as for responding to the needs o f the country after a disaster
 occurs and coordinating that response at local, regional, and international levels. While a crisis i s
 underway, NEMO i s part o f a larger network that includesvarious ministries that are essential to
 a response as well as 18 District Committees consisting o f representatives o f various ministries
 and social groups. Duringa disaster NEMO becomes the National Emergency Operations Centre
 (NEOC) and its personnel contact local counterparts and together they execute the required
 action. The NEOC i s the center from which all commands are issued and to which all demands
 are made.
 4dapted from httu://www.aeocities.comislunenio/about us/This.is.NEMO.udf. See Annex D for NEMO mission
 statement.




2.      Bank-Financed Disaster Projects

11.      FollowingDebbie, the Bank approved three successive disaster-related projects,
leadingto a continuous involvement indisaster prevention and response that i s scheduled
to cover a period o f about 15 years (see Figure l).3


Watershed andEnvironmentalManagement Project

12.      InOctober 1994, amonthafter Debbie, theBank fieldedanidentification
mission. A timely Bank presence facilitated aid coordinationwith bilateral andregional
organizations. An IDAProject Preparation Facility grant helpedaccelerate repair works.




3. The ongoing disaster-related work covered by the third loan i s scheduled for completion in2009, and
consequently was not ready for evaluation when OED visited inMay 2004.

                                                      4


 Figure1. Sequenceof St. LuciaDisaster-RelatedOperations
                          1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
 Watershed and
  Environmental
  EmergencyRecoveryand
  Disaster Management

  Disaster Management II


 13.        The WEMP focused on restoring andprotecting priority river basins and drainage
 areas, often with labor intensive works that provided disaster-stricken families with badly
 needed incomes. Because of the number o f sites that required attention andtheir
 dispersion and inaccessibility, only preliminary engineering sketches were prepared, with
 the understanding that adjustments would be made o n the job. The objectives and
 components of the project are showninBox 2.


 Box 2. Watershed and Environmental Management Project Objectives and
 Components

 Objectives

 0    To initiate the immediate rehabilitation o f the hydraulic infrastructure o f priority watersheds
      from the damage causedby the flooding and landslides;
 0    To address the medium and long term requirements for sustainable watershed development
      bypreparing a WatershedManagement Plan for key watersheds that would serve as the basis
      for more integrated, conservation-minded development; and
      To strengthen the government's capacities in environmental management and flood
      preparedness.
 Components

     Execution o f priority river and drainage rehabilitation works, together with supervisory
      engineering services for their implementation. Hazard mapping, experimentation with
     methods for stopping soil movements, surveys to develop design criteria for improved river
     works; and the installation o f modernized equipment and related training for improved
     hydrological data collection and analysis ($4.98 million);
 D   Preparation o f plans for (i)integrated watershed development, (ii)pilot watershed
     management projects, and (iii)an institutional development program consistent with the
     National Environmental Action Plan; and the design o f measures for advancing national
     environmental protection and disaster preparedness ($1.1million).
 D   Retroactive financing for civil works-related expenditures already incurred ($0.79million).
 The direct participation of the population in the project's activities and improved disaster
 nanagement generally were to be encouraged.


 EmergencyRecovery andDisasterManagementProgram

14.        More than four years after Debbie, ERDMP, the second Bank-financed disaster-
related project to be implemented inSt. Lucia, was approved. Although it diddo work
related to that storm, it was originally conceived as a means to promote disaster recovery
andemergencypreparedness inthe membercountries ofthe OECS.Nationalemergency
management agencies were to be brought to a level where they wouldb e able to perform
effectively.

                                                5


 15.     Individual lending operations were supposed to take place infive member states
eligible to borrow from the Bank. Thus the program consisted o f individual lending
operations, phased over a period o f approximately six years, supporting a comprehensive
set o f activities:

    0    Physical investments: Where necessary infrastructure would be rehabilitated or
         reconstructed. Additionally, vulnerable infrastructure was to be protected and
         strengthened before the next disaster could strike.
    0    Capacity building: The capacity o f national emergency management agencies was
         to be strengthened to enable them to perform more effectively.
    0    Institutional strengthening: Steps were to be taken to increase the ability and
         interest o f the private insurance industry to share disaster-related risks; and the
         enforcement o fbuildingcodes and land-use planning would be promoted.
    0    Community preparedness: Community-level disaster committees were to be
         organized, trained and equipped to enhance their role indisaster preparedness,
        mitigation and recovery.

16.     The OECS program was divided into phases, with the first focusing on St. Lucia,
Dominica, and St. Kitts and Nevis (the last o f these recovering from major damage due to
Hurricane Georges on September 21, 1998). Inaddition to infrastructure, inSt. Lucia
mitigation investments were intended to strengthen emergency preparedness and
response systems. Analytical studies were to be undertaken to formulate a strategy for
developing insurance and re-insurance schemes for public buildings. And buildingcodes
were to be improved inconjunction with proper land use planning.The stated
development objectives and components for St. Lucia are shown inBox 3 (also see
Annex E).


Box 3. Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project Objectives and
Components

Objectives
0   To physically strengthen key economic and social infrastructure facilities with the aim o f
    minimizing damage caused by future natural disasters and reducing the disruption o f
    economic activity inthe event of disaster emergencies (pre-disaster works)
0  To reconstruct and rehabilitate key social and economic infrastructure following disasters to
   allow quick recovery and minimize disruption o f economic activity (post-disaster works)
0  To strengthen the countries' institutional capacities to prepare for and respond to disaster
   emergencies inan efficient and effective manner
Components
0  Retrofittingpublic buildingsfor use as storm shelters (US$5.94 million).
0  Strengtheningthe National Office o fDisaster Preparedness (US$0.86 million)
0  Strengtheningthe Early Warning System (US$0.44 million)
0  Community BasedDisaster Management (US$O. 11million)
0  InstitutionBuilding(US$0.24 million)
0  Project Management (US$0.61 million) consisting o f technical assistance, equipment,
   workshops and audits.

                                                  6


 17.         There was a third Bank-funded disaster project inSt. Lucia, Disaster Management
 11,which was not far enoughdeliveredto evaluate. The objectives ofthisthirdprojectin
 the series aim at further reducing the country's vulnerability to adversenatural events
 (hurricane, floods, etc.) through investmentinrisk management activities. Although it i s
 only about a year into implementation, and not the subject o f this assessment, the
 project's activities and objectives (see Annex E) indicate that, althoughmany ERDMP
 activities are continued, the direction o f current work has shifted considerably toward
 prevention.



 3.         Implementation:IntendedOutcomesand Unexpected
             Results

 Watershed andEnvironmentalManagement Project

 18.        The planning for the management o f critical watersheds under the WEMP was
 time-consuming and slow to start up.As a result, civil works, intendedto reduce the
 danger to livelihoods andproperty from future flooding, commenced before the
 watershed planningthat was supposed to guide it. Activities such as deepening channels
 inriverbeds, andriverbank stabilizationwere completedbefore the environmental.
 management planswere prepared. Predictably, underthe circumstances the quality and
 sustainabilityo fwhat was done inthe rural areas varied widely.

 19.        Inthe urbanareasproject financed works consisted largely ofthe constructionand
repair of stormwater drainage canals and the construction o fretaining walls along rivers.
These works were generally o f good quality. The Ministryo f Communication, Works and
Transport's (MOCWT) "River Management Unit"created under the project carried out
minor maintenance programs for urban areas as well. These took place under the "River
DesiltingElood Alleviation and Bank ProtectionProgram". Underthis program, the
agency maintainedwater channels within the city limits o f Castries and several other
urbanneighborhoods.

20.         The implementationo f (all three of) the Bank-financedprojectswas overseenby a
project coordinatingunit (PCU) that made the many administrative, strategic, and
procurement decisions required for day-to-day operation^.^ The PPAR mission found a
broad consensusregarding the conscientious performance o fthe unit.Many informants
stated that the WEMP project hadnearly foundered -but that once the PCUwas well led,
fully staffed, andfunctional it haddone avery competentjob ofmanagingthe
reconstruction process under difficult circumstances and time pressure. I t may well be
that hadthe unit beenfunctioning from the start as well as it didinits latter days, WEMP
works mighthave beenbetter planned. After credit closing, the PCUcontinuedto
function with muchthe same management, supporting other Bank loans including the


 W h i l e the PCUwas only so designated inthe ERDMP andDMP I1projects, keypositions inthe River
ManagementUnit of the WEMP project were staffedby individuals who latertook charge of what became
the PCU.Bank documents for the WEMP project (including the SAR andICR) refer to this unit as a PCU.

                                                     7


  ongoing second Disaster Management project. It continues to bewidely credited for
  committed leadership, attention to detail, sensitivity to local requirements, and speedy
  decision making. Discussions were underway about moving the unit to the Ministryo f
  Finance, and the question that many observers askedwas -what problems would that
  solve?

  21.     Trials o fmethods for arresting soil movements consisted largelyof encouraging the
  use o fbananatrash as a ground cover andto buildterraces. Pilot efforts inwatershed
  management and agro-ecological mapping were o f amuch smaller scale thanhadbeen
  anticipated duringappraisal.

  Retraining Rivers

  22.     The rehabilitationworks component commenced duringthe 1995 dry seasonwith
  the removal o f river debris and obstructions (deposited there byDebbieinSeptember of
  1994). Objects which were removedmost quickly were those seen as representingthe
  greatest danger to agriculture, infrastructure, and livelihoods. The arrival o f the next wet
  seasonwas a serious concern.

  23.     The vulnerability o f floodplain areas to flash floods increased after Debbiedue to
 the destabilization o f slopes andthe silting up o friver beds. Under the project, first
 actions were directedto sites where channels were blockedby boulders or choked with
 silt and debris. Unless these were removed, any heavy new rains would cause the rivers
1to overflow their banks, flooding adjacent agricultural land and urbanareas.

 Box 4. What is River Training?

 The volume o f soil and debris which the storm washed into the rivers reduced channel capacity
 greatly increasing the risk o f flooding. River training, the only solution to the problem, consists o f
 a series o f works that modify or constrain the behavior of rivers, typically including the creation
 o f new embankments and the upgrading o f existing ones, the planting o f certain varieties of trees
 and grasses to hold soil in place, stabilizing the outer edge o f river bends using stones or other
 inorganic material to lessen erosion and to keep the river to its course. Once rivers leave their
 channels due to flooding, they can abandon them for good - river training returns waterways to
 alignments from which they have departed. River training, by the creation o f guide bunds
 (sometimes referred to as hard points) protectsbridges, drainage infrastructure androads.


 24.     Project documents note that inrealigned rivers meanders will be reintroducedto
 increase water carrying ability and to slow their (potentially destructive) velocity during
 torrential rains. However, the missionnoted that inabout halfo f the sites visited, all the
 remaining meanderswere cut so the river flows straight as an arrow, just the opposite o f
 what was intended. The endresult i s decreasedwater retention capacity and increased
 water speed following heavy rainfalls -the source o f so manyproblems following
 tropical storm Debbie.

 25.     Many areas, where silt was removed, need further desilting. Some stabilized
 bankshave collapsed. Eventhough trees andvertical grassesmay have beenplantedon
 them, they have long since beenovertakenbyweeds and scrub. One official reported the

                                                         8


 same process with drainage ditches, notingthat because farmers do not understand their
 function, all 34 o f the ditches that hehadvisited were out o f action due to lack o f
 maintenance. Because of storm damage insome watersheds (a major storm occurred
 duringproject implementation) it is nearly impossible to see traces ofproject debris
 removal and river management efforts.
                                                                                   I



 26.      The Watershed Management Planpreparedtoward the endofthe project lays out
 an approach to sustainable watershed development. Butwhile it notes the types o factions
 that will be required, it does not systematically identifyprojects for future development
 that couldbe undertakenwith external finance. Nor does it prioritize works inone
 watershed over another.

 27.      As aresult ofthe deepeningofriver channels (see Table l), failure to plant  the
 bankside trees and appropriate stabilizing grassesY5andthe incidence o fheavyrains and
 tropical storms, there has beenextensive erosion o fbank and destruction o f defenses built
 undertheproject. The ICR, which is basedon amissionthat took place inAugust 1997,
 notes that in 11priority watersheds, after damage6to the works from storms duringthe
 first year o freconstruction, the rehabilitated infrastructure effectively withstood the
 impact o f subsequent storms.

 28.      The OED missioninMay 2004 found manyo fthe project sites inpoor condition.
 Minor infrastructure maintenance was carried out by the Ministry o f Communication,
 Works and Transport during 1995, 1996, and 1997, but the PPARmission concludes that
 the works were insufficient to the actual needs. Moreover, by2004, at the manyrural
 sites where rivers and drainage hadbeen stabilized, the mission initially found it difficult
 to believe that any repairs had ever beenundertaken.It i s only through consulting
 detailed photographic evidence of the "before" and "after" project situation at a large
 number ofpoints along the rivers (documented bythe consultingengineers) that the
 missioncouldbe sure that works hadbeen done at all: sites were clearly identifiable, but
 the works that were shown inthe pictures were no longer distinguishable.

 29.      Pressure to start reconstruction too soon after disaster' ledto inadequately
 analyzed designs and works implementedina way that didnot systematically reduce
vulnerability to the next storm. Admittedly, the coming o f the nextrainy seasonpresented
risks to those rivers with reduced flow capacity. But while removing debris quickly made
sense, desiltingwithout stabilizing the denudedhillsides inthe surrounding watershed

5. Vetiver, a short grass with extremely low maintenance that is not palatable to animals and highly suited
to slope stabilization.
6. About 18 percent o f the total cost o f the works was lost when infrastructure proved to have insufficient
disaster resistance. Causes o f failure included: deficient alignment o f river defenses, insufficient channel
profile control, insufficient height o f embankments and gabions, poorly designedin-stream bridge
approaches, weak junctions o f adjacent structures, and overly shallow foundations. Selected corrective
works were undertaken with project h d s .
7. The ICR attributes infrastructure failures due to a perceived need for speed: "Two strong storms hit St.
Lucia later in 1996, a tropical wave on October 26, and the tail o f tropical stormMarco on November 21
caused severe damage.. .where storm damage rehabilitationhadbeen carried out., .thedamages inflicted to
the works executed [under the project] were mainly the consequence o f minor design and construction
errors induced by the need to take quick corrective actions after Debbie."

                                                  9


 (beginning at the top) soon ledto re-silting.The thoroughreport produced by the
 project's consulting engineers substantiates the mission's observations on the
 effectiveness o f the works carried out. The effectiveness'of the various actions are
 described and evaluated inthe table below.

 Table 1. The Effectivenessof the RehabilitationWorks Undertaken
      Operation Undertaken                     Impact                            Comments
 Organic debris and rubbish       0 Blockage removed                Non-controversial activity: debris
 cleared from 10rivers, sediment  0 Decreasedfloodplain flooding    removedto dump, organic
 removal from 9 rivers            0 Increasedflow rate              materialused as compost and
                                    Lessened eutrophication and     mulch. Special attention (burial)
                                    healthhazards                   was requiredfor dead animals.
 Widening river channels (major   0 Decreasedfloodplain flooding    Overall beneficial but some
 work on 5 rivers)                0 Immediate loss o f agricultural problems were noted including
                                    land                            need for urgent soil stabilization

                                  0 Loss o f riverbank habitat      and tree planting. Consultation
                                                                    and compensation essential.
 Five river channels deepened     0 Increased erosion o f existing  Creates more river channel and
                                    channel and intributaries.      bank instability problems than it
                                  0 Undercutting o fbanks           solves.
Rock protection (rip-rap, done on 0 Helps prevent riverbank         Too expensive for the protection
 10rivers)                          erosion                         o f agricultural land. Should only
                                                                    be done to protect infrastructure.
                                                                    Not as effective as using gabion
                                                                    baskets.
Gabion baskets on eroding           Effective at protecting against Not recommendable just to
(outside) bank (done infour         river bank erosion.             protect agricultural land. High
geographic areas, number o f        Looksgood.                      cost was notjustified inmost
rivers not clearly specified.                                       cases.
Meander (loop) cutting (major     0 Increases speed o f drainage    Highlyproblematic. Not
work on 3 rivers, minor work on   0 Increased erosion               recommended for any future
another).                         0 Loss o f trees and protective   work inSt. Lucia except where
                                    vegetation                      current meander threatens major

                                  0 Loss of agricultural land       infrastructure over a wide area.

                                  0 Loss o faccess to agricultural  Leads to land disputes and
                                    areas                           compensation claims. Increased
                                                                    flow rates aggravate future floods
                                  0Large volume o f spoil           andcontribute to rapid erosion
Filling old meanders (major work  0Creationof new land              Any benefits from this expensive
on 3 rivers, minor work on                                          new land creation have been
another)                                                            small, legal status (ownership) o f
                                                                    new lands i s uncertain due to
                                                                    absence o fboundary markers,
                                                                    andfertilitykexture o fnew land is
                                                                    ?oar. Filled areas serve as a
                                                                    reserve flood channel, and are
                                                                    iighly subject to flood hazard.

30.      The assessmentmission substantiated the ICRfindingthat works were too rushed
to be o f satisfactory quality. Inmany cases the perceivedneedto hurrywas mistaken.
What i s the point o f hurryingto buildthings that wash away? Fieldobservations
confirmedthat subsequent tropical storms and heavy rains (and inthis case several
weather events that happenedbefore the project had even closed) conspiredwith

                                                     10


  inadequately conceived restoration plansand a lack o fwatershed level planning,to
  destroy a significant amount o f the supposedly disaster-resistant project-built
  infrastructure.

  The Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Program

  31.     While the OECS programwas beingappraised it was thought that grouping
 projects for all five OECS countries into one adaptable program loan would leadto
 efficiencies (as a ratio o f administrative budget over dollars lent). Inpracticethe opposite
 was true: nine loans/credits intotal eventually had to be unbundledand turned back into
 separateprojects.* Therefore, although an innovative approach was usedto develop a
 regionalprogram, it had little effectg

 32.      The PPARmissionvisited anumber ofERDMP sites, includingretrofitted
 schools, gabions (for landslide prevention, drainage, andriver training), the emergency
 water supply for the hospital, storage facilities for emergency supplies, and the flood
 preventionworks at the airport.

 33.      The gabionworks were extensive and first rate. Sites were well chosen. Execution
 was good. The infrastructure and settlements beingprotected generally warranted the
 scale and cost o fwhat was beingdone to protect them. Although ina few sites, it seemed
 that a small additional investmentinextending what was done would greatly increase
 sustainability, project staff indicatedthat such extensions were contemplated inthe
 follow-on project. Following the midtermreview inJanuary 2002, an amendment to the
 loadcredit agreement dropped flood preventionworks inthe Cul-de-sac Valley (bridge
 construction, drainage, embankment works). These were not undertakenafter an in-depth
 feasibility study showed the cost was muchhigher than anticipated.

 34.      While the project documents describe a concerted effort to create emergency
 shelter inpublic buildingsand to increase public awareness o f locations designated for
 use as public shelters (refer to Box 3 for objective and component descriptions), most o f
 the buildingsdesignated for project-financedrepairs were schools that were badly inneed
 o f refurbishment before tropical storm Debbiehit. The quality o f the works was uneven:
 at one school officials complainedbitterlythat the project-suppliedroofwas leakingto a
 degreethat was causing ongoing interior damage andthat inspite o frepeated complaints,
no efforts hadbeenmade to correct the situation. Similar complaints were made about
improvements to school bathrooms, which were still not usable. Inseveral schools, the
new aluminum louvers installed (glass windows would have beeninappropriate giventhe
climate) were too thinfor use inpublic buildings, much less classrooms for playful and
energetic children. They were made o f easily buckled and flimsy material, much more
fragile than the louvers the classrooms hadbefore. The majority o f the new louvers had
already beeneither destroyed, seriously damaged, or bent bythe studentsjust innormal


8. The ICR notes that different purchase order numbers were required for SAP to monitor each project
separately.
9 The comments on this report submittedby the Borrower note that the regional approach facilitated
information exchange and helped to strengthen a "culture o f prevention" inparticipating countries.

                                              11


use. The classrooms that still hadthe old windows were muchbetter off, interms o fthe
percentage o f louvers ineach classroom that could be made to close to keep the rain out.

Shelters

35.     The government originally selected 23 schools to be retrofitted as hurricane
shelters. Schools inSt. Lucia tend to be two stories high, accommodating three to six
classrooms on each level under a large gable roof. Often there are multiplebuildings.
Underthe project, roofs andwindows hadto bemade sufficientlyhurricane-resistant to
offer dry accommodation to families shelteringthere. Kitchens and sanitary facilities had
to be added where absent, or upgraded to handle large groups living inthe buildings for
extendedperiods o ftime. Generators andwater tanks also hadto be installed.

36.     Repairs were intended to make schools more disaster-resistant and readyto
provide shelter inan emergency. Yet, while other buildings on the islandwere designated
as disaster shelters (primarilycommunity centers and some churches), and clearly marked
with signage to that effect, the schools the missionvisited were not so designated,
perhaps because o f the experience o f St. Kitts (see Box 4). True, the repairs under the
project (except for the louvers) addressedthe immediate needs o f St. Lucia's schools.
But,while the repairs maybecontributing significantlyto their continued use as schools,
they are not significantly increasing their disaster resistance.

37.     Water tanks (intended to increase the capacity o fpublic buildingsto function as
emergency shelters) were not installed and are the subject o f litigationbetween the
government andthe supplier. They were constructed out o f a glass fiber commonly used
for water tanks inEurope, and after they were delivered, local officials mistook the glass
for asbestos fiber and refused to accept them.

38.    Duringimplementation, replacingroofs inschools provedmore expensivethan
anticipated. Only 11o f the planned23 schools were actually repaired. The PPARmission
found the following:

       Roofs were not pitched steeply enough to counteract the upliftingforce o f high
       winds.
       The lightweight roofsheetingwas not always hurricane-proof. Itwas not always
       attached to rooftrusses with special fasteners, nor were the trusses connected to
       the masonrywith an unbrokenbando fmetal (commercially available "cyclone
       straps" are a common solution).
       Since the louvers installedunder the project are not capable o fkeepingtorrential
       rains out, storm shutters will be needed for emergencies.
       While the kitchens observed by the mission seemed to have the capacity to handle
       long-term large-scale feeding operations, sanitary facilities are borderline
       inadequate for the current school population. They do not have the capacity to
       house a large number o f adults inaddition to children.

                                                 12


 Box 4. A Better Approach to Emergency Shelter: The St. KittsExperience

 Under ERDMP, five countries (St. Lucia, Dominica, St. Kitts, St. Vincent, and Grenada) were to
 construct hurricane shelters. When the 1998 Hurricane George damaged 85 percent o f the houses
 inSt. Kitts,people used schools as shelters for upto three months, untiltheir homes were fixed.
 This, however, posed a problem for schools, which were not able to operate. Children already
 traumatized by the loss of their home had to suffer the disruption o f their schooling, keeping
 parents busy with childcare. Therefore, under ERDMP St. Kitts developed a new strategy for its
 shelter construction. The Government of St. Kitts and Nevis decided against retrofitting schools,
 and instead built smaller shelters that could be used as community centers year-round. Five o f
 eight community centers were built with concrete roofs and reinforced windows in the island's
 most populated areas. Their interiors are designed to be turned into separate dormitories for men
 and women. Shelter managers were trained and a national shelter policy developed and discussed
 with all stakeholders.



 Disaster Institutions and Resources

 39.     District Disaster Committees (DDCs) report twice a year directly to the Prime
 Minister. The PPAR mission was present the opening day o f the hurricane season. There
 was a highawareness o f possible hurricane threats, and meetings to coordinate disaster
 reliefbetween different donor agencies, as well as a planning session with the Prime
 Minister andNEMO to prepare for the next hurricane. Disaster management has become
 an integral part o f the country's planning processes. Schoolprincipals and District
 Disaster Committees (DDCs) received training inhow to operate shelters, and inhow to
 communicate with the radio equipment that was purchasedunder the project. Training
was also provided to the media to use clearer language when announcing hurricane
threats.

40.      The storage facilities for emergency supplies were built as intended. They are
completely new structures but they have not yet been handed over to the local
communities. BothNEMO staff and the District Disaster Committees have keys, but no
community leaders or village committees have been entrusted with that responsibility.

41.      The stockpiles o f disaster equipment and loss reduction materials included
generators, water purification equipment, plastic sheeting, chain saws, lanterns, and first aid
supplies. Much o f the equipment was pilfered before it could be transferred to the satellite
warehouses. This loss largely cancels out the capacity the equipment was intended to
create, and communities were doubtless disappointed not to receive all they expected.
According to data provided to the mission byNEMO, losses include 60 percent o fportable

water pumps (3 out o f lo), about 16percent o fthe total number o f folding cots (17 out o f
generators (3 out o f 5), 40 percent o f chain saws (4 out o f lo), 30 percent o f emergency

104), 33 percent o f shovels (30 out o f go), 10percent o fhardhats (9 out o f go), and a
significant quantityo f tarpaulin andplastic sheeting.

42.     The Early Warning System for storms andhurricanes s now operating, thanks to
investments inequipment for the National Meteorological Service. There is now an
enhanced satellite receiving station with high-resolution imaging, and an upgraded Area
Forecast System. New computers and a dedicated phone system were provided, along

                                                     13


with training intheir use. Equipmentwas purchased for aFloodWarning Systemandthe
 system i s operational inthe largerrivers. Emergency plans for the full range o fhazards to
which the country is exposed were prepared, though they are awaiting official approval
 (see Annex C).

43.      Because o f the highcomplexity o fthe project inSt. Lucia - seven different
 agencies involved, multi-sectoral activities scattered all over the country -the following
components were only partlyachieved or hadto be cancelled. Most o f them concemed
institutional strengthening:

    e    Little was done to increase the government's accessto insurance under the
        project, other than the preparation o f an inventory o fpublic buildings.
    e    Government buildings were not assessed for hazard vulnerability.
    e   N o training was provided inemergency equipmentmanagement.
    e   Vulnerability maps were not produced. Coordinationwith CDERA and Caribbean
        DevelopmentBank (CDB) regarding map preparation took place, but no action
        followed and the component was cancelled.
    e   A nationalbuildingcode hadbeenpreparedunderthe CaribbeanDisaster
        Mitigation Project (CDMP), hndedby USAID/OFDAand OAS,but it i s still
        awaiting enforcement.
    e   A seven-member NationalHazardManagement Councilwas organized to advise
        NEMObutdidnot meetregularly:it duplicated the NationalEmergency
        Management Advisory Committee (NEMAC), which under law has to meet
        regularly, and which enjoys wide representation by community organizations,
        professional associations, andbusiness/industry representatives.

44.     ThePPARmissioncontacted CARICOM and CDERA to learntheir perspectives
on the two evaluated projects and the regional approach taken inERDMP.Officials from
OECS complained that they were only involved inthe loannegotiations. Once the loan
was approved, member countries didnot consult OECS further.

Impact of BankDisasterLendingis Significant

45.     Duringthe early 199Os, no disaster legislationexisted for St. Lucia, no emergency
communication equipment was available, hurricane announcements were made ina way
that only educated people could understand, and District Disaster Committees (DDCs)
were not trained inoperating shelters and evacuating people livinginflood-prone areas.
The following incident illustrates changes to which the World Bankproject contributed.

46.     Inearly2002, 17disaster management officials from St. Luciaparticipatedina
simulation exercise inTegucigalpa, Honduras.lo this exercise St. Lucia's National
                                                       During
Emergency Response Management Planwas tested. Ithadbeen prepared under ERDMP
by a consultant to NEMO. On September 23,2002, Hurricane Lilihit St. Lucia. The
disaster preparednessand response was tested by a real event and the procedures

10.HumanitarianAllied Forces CommandPost Exercise is an exercise conducted every two years and
sponsored by the U S Southem Command with the intention of testing EOCs and improvingresponse
between national, regional and international agencies.

                                                   14


 developed inthe Hurricane Planworkshop were followed. The day before the event
 people inSt. Lucia were told about the hurricane threat inplain Englishand inCreole.
 Officials responsible for disaster management opened shelters, organized the evacuation
 o fpeople livinginendangered areas, and closed schools and commerce the following
 day. When the storm hit the following night, the Emergency Operations Center (EOC)
 was staffed by volunteers, and communications with DDCs worked at all times. Storm
 damage was estimated at US$7.6 million, most o fwhich came from crop losses. No one
 was reportedinjuredor dead. A debriefing sessiontook place, and"EM0 i s now
 updating its National Emergency ResponseManagement Planbasedon the experience
 gained under the project." Without ERDMP, this level o fpreparedness would not have
beenreached.

47.      The appropriateness o fprocessing the loanusingthe expeditedprocedures
 allowed for emergency recovery lendingwas notjustified, however." Therehadbeenno
immediate emergency situation inSt. Lucia at the time o f preparation. The perceived
need to move quickly during the designphase, ledto (many) components beingso poorly
definedduringpreparation that they hadto bereappraised duringimplementation.



4.      Achievement of Objectives and Ratings

WEMP

Objective 1. To initiate the immediate rehabilitation of the hydraulic infrastructure of
priority watershedsfrom the damage caused by theflooding and landslides (achieved
but with major shortcomings).
48.      Drain rehabilitation works were conducted covering six towns. InDennery,
however, the project created a significant environmentalnuisance. The storm water
drainage canal, intendedto flow into the sea was constructed at the wrong height and
slope. Thus contaminated rainwater accumulates a few hundredmeters from the outlet o f
the canal, resultingina garbagetrap that produces badsmells and encouragesmosquitoes
a few steps from the main street.

49.      Executiono friver rehabilitation works took place inthe 11priority watersheds.
Theremoval o f silt, boulders, and organic materialtemporarily increased the capacity o f
water courses, but the lack o f upstreammeasuresto control erosion and stabilize steep
slopes will make these improvements short-lived. Restored bankswere not properly
stabilized, and stone (rip rap and gabions) was usedat sites where it was not
economicallyjustified. The unevennesso fproject civil works was partially the result o f
usingmany small contractors, who were difficult to supervise. Engineeringreview o f
project work led to the identificationo f valuable lessons which (hopefully) will be

11,Retrievedon 08/22/04 from:
httu:llwww.reliefweb.intlwlrwb.nsfl6686f45896fl5dbc852567ae00530 132ld571ffbeOd71a7da85256~45007
5 19ce?OpenDocument.

l2The PPAR andICR are inagreementregardingthe inadvisability ofusing ERLswhen there is no
emergency.

                                                15


 reflectedinongoing and future river works aimed at increasing carrying capacity.
 Contractors' experience with the type o fworks usedunder this project will benefit St.
 Lucia inthe years to come.

 Objective2. To address the medium- and long-term requirementsfor sustainable
 watersheddevelopment by preparing a WatershedManagement Plan which would
 serve as the basisfor more integrated, conservation-mindeddevelopment of key
 watersheds(achieved but with signiJicant shortcomings).
 50.     The Watershed Management Planwas prepared, and it did develop clear criteria
 and guidelines for watershed management generally. But beyondthat it failed to identify
 concrete steps to take. Studies conducted to inform the planpreparation process
 contributedto knowledge on watershed development. Theparticipationo f large numbers
 o f families inlabor intensiverehabilitation works contributed to increased public
 awareness of the nation's environmental problems.

 Objective3. To strengthen thegovernment's capacitiesin environmental management
andfloodpreparedness cfully achieved).
5 1,     The individuals inthe several agencies involved with project and financial
management acquired invaluable experience with the design and implementationo f
hydraulic works. This has made the PCU a more effective implementer o f the two
disaster projects which followed WEMP. The project providedon the job training to
numerous small contractors, and it strengthenedthe capacity o fparticipatingministries
andagenciesinflood preparedness and civilworks.

Ratings for the WEMP Project

52.      Outcome. The project achieved highlyrelevant physical and institutional
objectives but with a series o fmajor shortcomings. Mucho f the infrastructure
constructed has already beendegraded. Adequate arrangements are not inplace to help
avoid known operational risks or to mitigate their impact. The infrastructureconstructed
and services generated labor-intensive employment at a time when that was o f critical
importance to many families, however. Overall the project outcome i s rated moderately
unsatisfactory.

53.     Institutional Development Impact. The Office o fDisaster Prevention (known later
as NEMO) beganto develop ameasure o f implementation capacity, andblossomed more
fullyunderthe ERDMPprojectratedbelow. TheRiverManagement Unitevolvedinto the
PCUwhich hasbecome a semi-permanent institution; capable staffhave beenrecruited and
retained, informationsystems havebeen established, andhazard-relatedplanningprocesses
have beencarried out inanunprecedented manner-albeit          a great deal more remains to be
done. Underthe labor-intensive works undertaken, local skills havebeenupgraded, which
may affect families capacity to earn over the longer term. Disaster risk management and
efficacious responseto emergency situations are now central inthe government planning
process. Institutionaldevelopment impact i s rated substantial.

54.     Sustainability. Project-built public infrastructure i s inuse. But they are generally
not beingmaintained under the budgets and oversight o fthe relevant ministries.
Sustainability of the works depends on two things: 1) the regular provisiono fhuman and

                                                 16


 financial resources for their maintenance and 2) upstream environmental management
 and sensible land use practices which should have beenpart o f the project but were not.
 There was a three-year periodwhere some systematic effort (though not at the scale
 necessary) was exerted for hydraulic infrastructure maintenance. Since then, maintenance
 efforts have occurred but they have not been systematic andthey often come too late -
 interventions tend to be triggered by damage to bridges, cutting o f roadbeds, and failure
 o f urbandrainage systems. Little progress has beenmade with environmentally
 sustainable agriculture o n the hillsides, because most o f the pilots envisioned at appraisal
 didnot happen. Most informants believe that deforestation is worsening. At the time o f
 this review, the resilience to risks o f future net benefits flows i s poor. Although the
 project continues to produce net benefits, there is little likelihood that they will be
 maintained. Sustainability is rated unlikely.

 55.      Bank Performance. The Bankresponded quickly after Debbie, andBank staffhelped
 to design a project that addressedthe problems causedbythe storm ina comprehensive way.
 EarlyBankinvolvement mobilized fimdingfiomother sources that complementedproject
 activities inimportant ways. Bankperformance is rated satisfactory.

 56.     Borrower Performance. Although the team charged with project oversight was
 slow to become effective, staff flexibility and determination to succeed helped overcome
 a number o f obstacles and led to the construction o f flood protection infrastructure.
Ministries that hadnever worked together before coordinated effectively during
implementation. K e y staffmembers that participated inthe effort have become important
disaster experts inthe country. Less positively, monitoring and evaluation was never
undertaken, so that an opportunity was missed to identify aspects o f the protection works
that were not cost-effective (e.g. protecting fields). Onthe other hand, learning how to
identify vulnerabilities and then developing effective strategies to combat them are skills
that are learned from experience. The studies and the Environmental Management Plan
were completed andthey are beginning to be used effectively. Onbalance, the borrower's
performance is rated satisfactory overall.

ERDMP

Objective1. To strengthen key economicand social infrastructure andfacilities with
the aim of minimizing damage caused byfuture natural disasters and reducing the
disruption of economic activity in the event of disaster emergenciescfully achieved with
minor shortcomings).
57.      The PPARmission visited Hewanorra Airport, the most valuable o f the
infrastructures protected, andreviewedthe measures provided for the facility with the team
incharge. Drainagehasbeenprovided so that the waters frommajor storms flow directly to
the sea. Dikes protect the runways from the waters o f a river which passes near the airport;
andanaccessroadhas beenconstructedto facilitate the maintenance ofthe system. At
Victoria Hospital, the missionnotedthat the water tower built with project hnds was o f
good quality and filled to capacity. Its location on stabilized ground on a nearby hill
ensures a continuing supply o fwater to the hospital inthe event that water service i s cut o f f
bystorms, as happened following tropical stormDebbie.

                                                    17


  58.      The Emergency Shelter Program, which retrofittedschools for use following
  emergencies contributedto the creation o f a reserve shelter capacity, eventhough the
  retrofitted schools visited are not currently designated as shelters. Kitchen facilities are
  up to the task of feedinga large temporarily displaced population, thoughthe sanitary
  facilities are not yet adequate to such use.

  59.      The vulnerability assessmentofpublic buildings didnot take place, although an
  inventory o f these buildingshadbeenprepared-an           important first step. A related issue
  that remains to be addressedi s the protectiono fhistoric culturalproperty, which because
  o ftourist interest has economic importance. Fort Rodney on PigeonIslandi s a major
  tourist attraction, but public officials say it i s hardto justify measure to protect the
  complex from extreme weafher events when the government finds it hardto finance the
 reconstructiono fpublic office buildingsproviding services to the entire country.

  Objective 2. To reconstruct and rehabilitate key social and economicinfrastructure
following disastersto allow quick recovery and minimize disruption of economic
 activity cfully achieved).
 60.      N o disaster occurred duringthe project but there was much left to put together
 after Debbie. Bailey bridgeswere bought, two bridges were rebuilt usingthe acquired
 modules and sufficient stock remains to construct one (small) additionalbridgewhen that
 shouldbecome necessary. The bridges acquired were o f exceptionallygood quality.
 Unfortunately they were not compatible with the existing stock o f Bailey-type bridgesso
 that the modules cannot be combined, and any new works cannot be supplemented from
 existing stock. Numerous flood preventionand drainage works have been done using
 gabions. Slope stabilizationand landslideprevention works were also generally well
 executed and likely to last the 50-year projectedlife spano f gabions. The project
replenished the government's stock o f the steel baskets which are usedto make gabions,
which will facilitate quick recovery and infrastructure protectioninthe future.


respond to disaster emergenciesin an efficient and effective manner cfully achieved).
 Objective 3. To strengthen the countries' institutional capacities topreparefor and

61.       The NationalMeteorologicalService has equipment that will enable it to better
monitor storm development andtrajectory, andit has the telephone equipment (procured
undertheproject) to deliver warnings. The emergency communications systemenablesthe
nationalauthorities to stay incloser contact with local officials and community committees.
Inmanydistrictsthe systemistestedweeklyto ensureitscontinuedfunctioningandto
keep upparticipants' skills and morale. Strengthening NEMO through technical assistance
andcapacity buildingindisasterpreparedness has contributed to a significant improvement
infunctionality, whichithasdemonstratedincrises.Itsabilityto transform intotheNEOC
i s an importantpower. The development and subsequent revisiono f the National
Emergency ResponsePlanandthe various hazard-specific planspreparedunder the project
are a major step forward. The creation o f its relationshp with the 18partner district
committees i s movingit toward community-based disaster management.

62.       Local disaster committees have been strengthened. The motivation o fthe
committees hasbeenenhanced enormously by the personal attention givento their
functioning bythe head o f state, who meets with all the committees once a year to discuss
preparations andplanso f action for the next hurricane season. District disaster committees

                                                       18


 have beengivena secure storageplace where they can store emergency equipment and
 supplies. Stockpiles o f disaster equipment and loss-reductionmaterials have been
 established, but they have not yet beenturned over to the localcommittees as anticipated.

 Ratings for the ERDMP Project

 63.      Outcome. The project achieved all o f its highlyrelevant disaster mitigation
 objectives with only minor shortcomings. The hospitalnow has a disaster-resistant water
 system. Two bridges have beenrebuilt, and there are parts enough to make one more
whenever that should be necessary.The airport is protected against storms with a 20-year
returnperiod, and drainage around the facility has been greatly improved. A very large
numberof gabionworks havebeenundertaken, they are o f excellent quality, andthey are
likely to resist badweather. A number o fbadly deteriorated schools have been
rehabilitated, andthey have marginally increased their capacity to serve as shelters in
some future emergency. Overall the project outcome i s rated satisfactory.

64.      Institutional Development Impact. The Project ImplementationUnitworked
exceptionallywell inthe ERDMPprojects, andcontinues to play a keyrole inall ongoing
Bank work. Duringthe ERDMP, the staff o fthe NEMOwas do~bled,'~                            anda National
HazardMitigation Council was added to advise and support it. DDCs were created, and
they have continued to receive support and encouragement from the highest levels. The
result o f the work begununder the Bank loan, andthe added stimulus o f repeated
buffetingo f the Regionby subsequentdisasters has been the creation o fpermanent public
institutions to manage risks, monitor hazards, andpredict disasters. Hundreds o f members
of local committees have beentrained indisaster management bythe RedCross.
Fourteen flood warning stations are constantly monitoringriver levels and flows. The
PCUwas transformed into an auxiliary disaster management institutionincreasing human
welfare over the long term. A Disaster PreparednessandResponse Billwas passed. New
procedures are ineffect at the NationalMeteorologicalService (NMS) that provide
increased safety to air travelers. Nationwide, disaster-relevant skills have been upgraded,
satellite warehouses have been constructed, andthey are equippedwith the bulk o fthe
emergency suppliespurchased for them. Emergency communication systems exist where
none did before. The institutional development impact ratingi s substantial.

65,      Sustainability. Scores o f communities have hadtheir vulnerability to unexpected
storms and flood significantly reduced. Preliminary work on a relevantbuildingcode, plus
code-related training for the construction industryhasbeenundertaken. Ifenforced, this
will increasethe sustainability o fpublic andprivateinvestments. The gabionstructures
constructed have resisted the forces o f several extreme weather events, sufferingalmost no
damage, andit can bepredicted that they will continue to resist disaster risks, adding to the
substantial benefits delivered. Project-built public infrastructure (bridges, drains,
warehouses, andthe upgraded schools) are inuse. Withthe exception o fruralworks, they
are generally beingwell maintained. Technical and financial resilience i s high, as i s social
support. Sustainability i s rated likely.



13. As of the mission it consisted o f three professional staff, a secretary, and an inventory officer.

                                              19


 66.     Bank Performance. The Bank didnot allot enough time to preparation, and it i s
 hardto justify processing this loan as an emergency operation giventhat there was no
 emergency at the time, and the complex implementationarrangement and the institution
 buildingenvisaged under the projectwould havebenefitedfrom a longer implementation
 period. However, supervision missions were frequent, capably staffed, and effective. On
 balance, Bank performance i s rated satisfactory.

 67.    Borrower Performance. The borrower was slow to appoint key staff and to
 releasethem from other duties so that they could deal with the tight implementation
 schedule. Preparation was inadequate. In the latter stages, however, the PCUwas able to
 turnits full attention to implementation, andmost components were fully implemented.
 The borrower's performance is rated satisfactory overall.



 5.     Conclusionsand Lessons

 68.    For the WEMP project, after the 1996 storm Debbie, the Bank chose a Sector
 InvestmentandMaintenance Loan. In contrast, three years later, the ERDMPprojectwas
 processed as an Emergency RecoveryLoanwithout there beingany disaster as a trigger
 event. Inthe first project, adequate time was givento project preparation (though the
 sequencing was wrong and the watershed management plans were not followed) andto a
 thorough analysis o fthe country's needs relative to the long-termrestoration o f degraded
watersheds. The second project, inpart because it was prepared on a fast-track, failed to
 address the medium-and long-term needs o fthe watershed problem. Fast-tracking when
there was not even an emergency proved counterproductive.

 69.    Underthe WEMP project, works undertakento protecturbanareas andurban
infrastructure were generally effective. This can be contrasted with works undertakenin
rural areas which often were inadequately conceived and executed. The ICRnotedthat
preparation o f the watershed management planwas delayed because execution o f the
civil works was the immediatepriority. This argument makes little sense and fails to
explain why they could not have beenconducted inparallel from the outset.

70.     Inthe absenceofsound environmental management, eachevent makesthe next
one more probable. Management o frivers inorder to reduce storm-related floods requires
the knowledge ofthe root causes o f flooding ineach locality, and the identificationo f
site-specific steps to minimize flood impacts. The WEMP project had it right inthe sense
that watersheds needto be dealt with as the basic unit.Runofffrom hillsidesneeds to be
reduced, and, on agricultural land, organic and inorganic barriers put inthe path o f runoff
so that most o f the water not absorbed where it lands gets absorbed way before it gets to
the valleys. Restorative measures are neededto protect the productive valleys
downstream o f severely degraded areas on the hillsides.

71.     While the WEMP project taken as a whole took a comprehensive and fonvard-
looking approach, includingplanning for the next disaster, it did so only after the
reconstruction works were inappropriatelycompleted, with many subsequently destroyed

                                              20


or damaged (because they were not adequately disaster-resistant and because
maintenance was not systematically undertaken).

 72.     The ERDMPprojectwas more successful inconstructing lastingriverbank and
slope stabilization works and inimproving institutionaldisaster preparedness. Yet
becauseit was preparedon a fast-track basis, some drainage systems didnot work as
designed, andprotection measures failed to tackle the (up-stream, hilltop) roots o f
environmental degradation, which had already beenthoroughly identified during the first
project. Insteado f capitalizing on the insightsdeveloped by the WEMP Watershed
Management Plan, it respondedto some immediate repair needs without having a long-
term disaster prevention approach. The rivers have never returnedto the stability which
characterized thembefore Debbiebecause: some river training works were not done
properly; the watershed was never managed as a whole, neededupstream measureswere
never really taken, andlittle pilotingwork was ever done.

73.     Several vulnerability reductionworks necessaryto protect several large
population centers have been left to the second Disaster Management follow-on project.
For example, a new seawall and artificial islands will be constructed inDenneryharbor.
Recent thinkinginthe Regionindicates that some thought should be given inthe follow-
onproject to moving housingback from the beach, rather than to constructing works that
require highmaintenance where maintenance i s typically neglected. Several govemment
officials suggestedlower-cost alternatives to the problems o fDennery, including
breakwaters, and moving all the homes back from the beach while preservingtheir
positions relative to each other (as land availability does not present muchproblem).

74.     The recent Caribbean 2004 Regional Disaster Conference: "Managing Hazards in
a Changing Environment" reviewedthe progress made indisaster management and
mitigation since the 1984 Ocho Rios Conference and concluded that governments should
back away from large-scale investmentsinstructural measuresto reduce disaster
vulnerability. Various discussants hadnoted that since 1984, Caribbean countries have
built expensive infrastructure (often with donor support) without having the funds to
maintain it. Regional experience over the last decade led the participants to conclude that
Caribbean states ought to change to more sustainable and cost-effective non-structural
mitigation investments-measures such as relocating low-lying settlements away from
the coast.

An EvolvingBank Strategy inthe Caribbean

75.     It is importantwhenthe Bankis working with disaster-stricken small island
developing states (SIDS) to arrive at the scene quickly, to be present throughout the
periodthe government and donors prepare their response, and to provide financing for
urgentlyneededworks. Butmanyworks are not so urgentto justify over hasty
preparation. Quickly prepared plans for reconstructionhave resulted insignificant
wastage. More attention to design i s needed. More importantly, the Bank should wait for
a borrower-ownedresponse to environmentaldegradation. An emergency creates
pressure to opt for speed at the expense o f detail, yet it i s the details that determine
whether or not efforts will succeed. Taking the time to develop a better design based on

                                                     21


 sound principles o f environmental management could have lessened a numbero f
 problems.

 76.      The Bankneeds to develop a clearer understandingofwhich aspects of
 emergency response can berushed, and which cannot. Bank strategies to reduce the
 vulnerability o f SIDS have evolved considerably over the past two decades. Projects
 duringthe 1980~rebuiltroads andwharves andinvestedincoastal protection.A closer
                         ' ~
 look at the islands' infrastructure makes it clear that a lack o fmaintenance and
 environmentaldegradation increasedthe damage causedby tropical storms.

 77.      Beginningin 1989, disaster rehabilitationprojectsbecame more multi-faceted.15
 Vulnerability was reducednot only through coastalprotectioninfrastructure, but through
 a multitudeo f measures such as higher design standards duringrebuilding,balance o f
 payment loans to ease cash-flow, promotion o fbuildingcodes, national disaster
 legislation, hazardmapping, and landuse planning. The largest change was the
 investmentindisaster management to make governments andcommunitiesbetter
 prepared.Beginningwith the creation oftheregional Caribbean Disaster Emergency
 ResponseAgency (CDERA), disaster management offices were set up inall the
 Caribbean SIDS; the Bank's strategy was to strengthen themthrough staff increases,
 disaster management training, national emergency plans for different hazards, and
 emergency equipment.

 78.     The change inpractice observed reflects the evolutiono fthe Bank's operational
policies. In 1984, operational policy note 10.07, "Guidelines for Bank Participationin
Reconstruction Projects after Disasters," states that projects should not focus on
institutional change. By 1989, the main emphasis inthe Operation Directive (OD 8.50),
had shiftedto disaster management, reflectedinthe recommendation to develop a
national strategy and establish an adequate institutionaland regulatory framework. The
 1995 WEMP project was prepared under the provisions o f this directive. Beginningin
 1989, disaster recoveryprojects involve components to make national institutions better
prepared to cope with future disasters. This emphasis on disaster management remains
important inthe (1995) OP 8.50. Four years later, the ERDMP, approved inFY 1999 for
five Caribbean countries, exemplifies this shift to disaster management.

79.      The Bank's focus on institutions for disaster needs to bear inmindthat regional
organizations andnational governments' interests do not always overlap. CDERA, CDB,
andOECS feel the needto bemore involvedbythe World Bank incountry-level
activities inorder to raise their quality and improve sustainability. However, judging by
the St. Lucian officials met duringthe evaluation, individual countries do not wishto
have their projects managedby external institutions. They value the learningexperience
o f going it alone and are reluctant to involve regional entities (feeling that local
institutions gain little when the regionals are involved).



14.InVanuatu, Samoa, Comoros, and the DominicanRepublic to give a few examples.
15. For example, the Jamaica Emergency Reconstruction Import Loan which promoted higher design
standards, disaster insurance, improved building codes, training indisaster management, and the
establishment o f an emergency communication system.

                                            22


Lessons
   >  TheBank needs to be more involved in the immediatepost-emergemy period,
      and it needs to be able to quicklyfund activities that do not require detailed
     preparation, but it needs to take the necessary time toprepare infrastructure
      rehabilitation components that require careful attention to design. Ifthe Bank i s
      eventually going to be involved inreconstruction, it needs to sit down at the table
      withthe early responders. The Bankshould bepresent inthe immediate aftermath
      o f a natural disaster when decisions are made which influence future
     reconstructionactivities. Bank staffwith disaster knowledge needto advise
      governments on reconstruction andmitigation, and other players needto have an
     understandingofwhat the Bank will ultimately do. Since SIDS tend not to have
     large reserves available for disaster reconstruction, small-scale but nearly instant
     fundingis crucial inthe immediate aftermath of a disaster. The experience of
     these two projects illustrates the perils o finadequate attention to design, including
     taking into account the motivation and perceptions o fkey stakeholders.

  P In theabsence of borrowerstaff experiencedin Bankprocurementpractices, early
     training and support needs to beprovided, especially under the timepressures that are
     normalfor emergency operations.DuringWEMP it took a long time for the
     involved govemment staffto learnBank procedures. Inthe context o f SIDS, it i s
     important to take into account the capabilities o f the country. A small country
     with limitedhumanresourcesneeds assistanceifit is to produce the same amount
     o fdocumentation as a large country. Targeted procurement support needs to be
     tailored to the capacity o f individual SIDS.

  P Wheninterveningin thenatural behavior of a river, it shouldbe realizedthat thereis a
     danger of triggering unexpected and negative effects. For this reason it i s sometime
     preferable to keep land adjoiningrivers free o f construction and to allow the river
     to have some freedom o fmovement.
  >  I n order to work out a feasible action plan for watershed and environmental
     management it is imperative to identcjj the main constraints hampering sound
     management. In St. Lucia constraints have included turf issues between relevant
     public institutions, the movement o f farming to the hillsides, the nature o f local
     crops, and local perceptions o fhazards (causes andremedies).

  P With adequatepreparation, infrastructure can be rebuilt in three years, but creating
     viable institutions at the national, district, and community level takes much longer.
     Grappling with well entrenched environmental bad practice i s even more
     challenging and time-consuming.

                                                                                23                                                           Annex A


  Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

  ST. LUCIA                 WATERSHEDANDENVIRONMENTAL                                         MANAGEMENT                               PROJECT
  (CREDIT 2768-SLUAND LOAN 3925-SLU)


                                                                                    Appraisal                                        Actual or
                                                                                     estimate                                     current estimate
  Total project costs                                                                  7.10                                             7.31
  Loan amount                                                                          5.30                                             5.13


  CumulativeEstimatedandActualDisbursements(amounts in US$million)
I_.1                                                     1996                             1997                                        1998
  Appraisal estimate (US$M)                              2.0                               3.3                                         na
  Actual (US$M)                                          3.8                               0.6                                         .9*
  Actual as % of appraisal                               190                               18                                          na
  Date of final disbursement: May 30, 1998
  Note: Most of the project was completed by the end of 1996 and during 1997 and 1998.
  *Priority was given to the execution of the civil works (financed by the loan), therefore most works were completed by the
  end or 1996. During 1997and 1998, implementationfocused on preparation of the Watershed Management Plan and only
  minor works remain to be completed.




.l_~"_ll..l"","" ._..                                                              Original                                           Actual
                  "...~.".ll~lll    l.ll.ll_.,..   ._...
                                                    "      ".l_llll"l"_.".l_"                   ._l.-..l.lll."      .l..lllll.l"
  Departureof Appraisal Mission                                                  December 1994                                    December 1994        I




  Board approval                                                                   July 1995                                        July 1995
  Effectiveness                                                                  October 1995                                      October 1995




                                                Weeks     US$('OOO)                   Weeks     US$f'OOO)                         Weeks       US$f'OOO)
 Preparation to Appraisal                                                                                                          62.3        219.7
 Appraisal                                                                                                                         9.5          26.1
 Negotiations through Board                      4            11.5                      2.2                    5.3                 4.2          27.2
Approval
Supervision                                      13         70.2                        17                     61                  11.2          45
Completion                                       5                           17.                                                    7            28
                                                                                                                                   94.2         346

                                                  24                                           Annex A




 MissionData
    Stage of         Date      No. of Staff     Specializationsrepresented         Performance rating
 Project Cycle (monthlyear) persons days in
                                      field                                    Implementation     Devel.
                                                                                   Status      Objectives
 Through             10194      3       4           Economist, Engineer
 appraisal           11/94      1       8             Environmentalist
                     12/94      1       8             Environmentalist
                     1I95       1       9             Social Scientist
Appraisal         No Appraisal
 through Board      Mission
Approval
 Supervision         7/95       1       5                Engineer                    S              S
                     3/96       1       5             Environmentalist               S              s
                     10196      2       6     Natural ResourcesManagement,           S              S
                                                         Engineer
                     3/97       1      2      Natural Resources Management           S              S
Completion           8/97       2     10,7    Natural Resources Management,          S              s
                                                         Enaineer



ST. LUCIAEMERGENCY                 RECOVERY ANDDISASTER                 MANAGEMENT
PROJECT(LOAN               4419)


                                                Appraisal           Actual or           Actual as % of
                                                estimate        current estimate     appraisal estimate
                                                                                       ..
Total project cost                                7.65                7.65                  100




Departureof Appraisal Mission                                                          1211994
Board approval                                                                       12110/1998
Effectiveness                                         311Ill999                       8/13/1999




                                                        ActuaVLatest Estimate
                                        N" Staff weeks                          us$us$~ooo)
Identification/Preparation                   17.3                                   90.8
AppraisaVNegotiation                         2.7                                    13.5
Supervision                                  31.3                                   165.9
ICR                                          2.0                                    21.8
Total                                        53.3                                  292.0

                                                      25                                          Annex A


  Mission Data
                            Date     No. of    Specializationsrepresented              Performance Rating
                        (month/year) persons     . Performancerating
                                                                                   Implementation Development
                                                                                     Progress     Objectives
  Identification/       9/98            1                 Engineer
  Preparation
  AppraisallNegotiation 10198           8   Engineers (2), EnvironmentSpecialist
                                            Community Dev.And Loss Reduction
                                              Specialist, Disaster Management
                                              Specialist DisbursementOfficer,
                                              Lawyer, EarlyWarning Specialist
  Supervision           1/99            5    Engineer,Environment Specialist,           S              S
                                              Urban PlannerWeather Service
                                            Expert, Disaster Forecasting Specialist
  Supervision           3/99            1     Financial ManagementSpecialist            S              S
  Supervision           6/99            1                 Engineer                      S              S
  Supervision           11/99           2    Financial Management Specialist,           S              S
                                              Disaster ManagementSpecialist
  Supervision           12/99           1              Urban Planner                    S              S
  Supervision           3/00            2     Engineer, Disaster Management             S              S
                                                          Specialist
  Supervision           10100           1                 Engineer                      S              S
  Supervision           12/00           3     Engineer, Disaster Management             U              S
                                                    Specialist, Financial
 Supervision           3/01             2        Engineer, Finance Officer              S              S
 Supervision            11/01           2        Urban Specialist, Disaster             S              S
                                                   Management Specialist
 Supervision           4/02             2        Urban Specialist, Disaster             S              S
                                                   ManagementSpecialist
Supervision            5/02             1            Financial Specialist               S              S
Supervision            7/02             1     EngineerIProcurementSpecialist            S              S
Supervision            10102            5     Urban Specialist (3), Engineer,           S              S
                                              Disaster Management Specialist,
Supervision            11/02                          Urban Specialist                  S              S
Supervision            2/03                           Urban Specialist                  S              S
Completion             11/13/2003      2     TTL, ProgramOfficer, Procurement                          S
                                                          Specialist


Other ProjectData
BorrowerIExecutingAgency:
FOLLOW-ON      OPERATlONS
Operation                                               Credit no.          Amount             Board date
                                                                          (US$ million)
Disaster Management Project II                                         3.7
,.**                                   -
                   -I_                ~

                        26


Annex B.Borrower Comments

                                                   27


Annex C. DisastersCausingSignificantDamage in St. Lucia
(25-year period)

 1980Hurricane Allen with estimated damage o f $100 million.

 1981Cargo transport airplane crash.

 1986Tropical storm Danielle.

1989 Swarming locusts.

1990 A series o f earthquakes fkom February to November.

1990 Landslide at Morne duDon.

1992 Bocage landslide.

1993 Civil unrest caused by banana industryworkers

1994Tropical Storm Debby.

1995 Oil spill inCul de Sac Bay spreads oil along the coastline at the northern end o f the island
(where most hotels are located).

1996 Major fires at Victoria Hospital and Patterson's Gap

1996 Tsunami causes extensive damage.

1998 Collapse o f the national phone system.

1998 Boguis landslide destroys 12 homes and leaves over 50 homeless.

1999 Oil spill.

1999 Black Mallet and Maynardhilllandslip leads to relocation o f over 100 families.

1999 Hurricane Lennycauses major damage (described below).

2000 Civil unrest and arson leads to injuries and arrests.

2002 Partial collapse of the national phone systemaffects all butwireless service.

2002 Tropical Storm Lilicauses extensive damage and leads to an evacuation order for Anse la
Raye (an order that i s ignored by the entire village).

2003 Tropical wave causes extensive damage to banana fields and fruit industryinfkastructure.

Data compiled and provided to the OED mission by A. L.DawnFrench, National EmergencyManagement
Office, St. Lucia.

                                              28


 Annex D.NationalEmergencyManagementOranization:
 MissionStatement

 The role o fthe NEMOis to develop, test andimplement adequatemeasuresto protect the
 population o f St. Lucia from the physical, social, environmental and economic effects o f
 bothnatural and man-made disasters. Its responsibility i s to ensure the efficient
 functioning o fpreparedness, prevention, mitigation andresponse actions.

 HAZARDS

 Severe weather systems are not the only threat that NEMO must plan and respond to;
 hazard analysis and experience have confirmedthat St. Lucia i s at risk from numerous
 hazards, bothnatural andtechnological:

        Natural [rapid onset]: Fire, Seismic, Volcanic, Tsunami, Flooding, Landslide,
         Storm, Hurricane
        Manmade [rapid onset]: Dam Collapse, Explosion, OiKhemical Spill, Mass
        Casualty, Nuclear spill, Civil Unrest Natural [slow Onset]: Drought, Famine,
        Plague

 OPERATIONS

During"peacetime" the Office oftheNEMO acts as a secretariat assisting the eighteen
local communities with various public awareness campaigns as well as training sessions.
One area o f constant activity i s providing advice to companies and service groups on
actionthat can be takenbefore, during and after a disaster. The Office also takes part in
activities that will heightenawarenesswith the public e.g. Radio and Television
programs, summer school talks, productiono ftelephone cards and the creation o f an
Internet website at http://www.geocities.com/slunemo where certain sections o fthe
National Planare available.

Disaster Management inSt. Lucia i s executed on a voluntary basis and duringan event
NEMO is part o f a larger network that comes into existence to respond to a disaster.
There are various Ministries that are essential to a response action. There are also
eighteen (18) District Committees that are composed similarly to the national
committees, which are composed o frepresentatives o fvarious Ministries and Social
Groups. For a response actionthe nationalpersonnel contact hidher local counterpart and
together execute an action.

DuringaneventNEMOtransforms into the NEOC. TheNEOC is the center from which
all commands are issued and to which all demands are made. It is the seat o f control for
the Prime Minister as Chairmanofthe NEOC and as Leader o f the State. All heads of
essential services locate at the NEOC e.g. Commissioner o fPolice, Chief FireOfficer,
Chief Medical Officer, etc. With the permissiono fthe Cabinet o fMinisters; NEMO has
the responsibility o fthe majority o f government's resources during a crisis. These
resources are coordinated byNEMO/NEOC but are utilizedbyvarious agencies. With

                                             29


the cooperation of the private sector NEMO also has access to the resources o f
individuals and companies. Finallythe EmergencyPowersAct 5 of 1995 provides the
office with the ability to commandeer DURINGA STATE OF EMERGENCY ONLY.
Therefore NEMO/NEOC has access and control o fthe resources o f the Nationwhen
faced with a disaster.

In2000the Disaster PreparednessandResponseAct 13 of 2000 waspassedthus
consolidating andplacing inlaw the actions o fNEMO. The NEOC has one final
responsibility, andthat i s to the Tourism Industry.The sector has created the Crisis
Management Unit (CMU) which functions out o f the Ministryo f Tourism. Once the
NEOC is'activatedthe C M U is also activated.

REGIONAL LINKS

St. Lucia i s a member state o f CDERA. The CDERA, which i s an intergovernmental
regional disaster management organization established in 1991by an Agreement o f
Heads o f Government o f the CARICOM. Its headquarters are located inBarbados.
CDERA has three (3) principle organs:

    0   The Council is the supremepolicy makingbody and is comprised o fthe Heads o f
        Government o fthe ParticipatingStates or their designated representatives. I t
        meets annually to review the work o f the Agency, approve its Work Programme
        andAdministrative Budget andmakeany other major policy decisions required.

    0   The BoardofDirectors is made up o fthe NationalDisaster Coordinators o f
        ParticipatingStates, with the Coordinator (see below) as Chairman. The Board
        serves ina technical advisory capacity andmakes recommendations to Council on
        matters such as those mentioned above.

    0   The Coordinating Unit is the administrative headquartersof the Agency and is
        located inBarbados. It i s responsible for executing the activities o f the Agency
        and conducting its day-to-day business. Source: CDERA 2001

RESPONSEPLANS

Disaster Management i s not conducted on an ad hoc manner. There are plans and
procedures to be followed andno two hazards are respondedto inthe same manner. As
such inAugust 1996, the Cabinet o f Ministers accepted andauthorized the St. Lucia
National Emergency ResponsePlan. In2002/2003 with the assistanceo f the OECS
Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project, NEMO reviewed the 1996
ResponsePlanand commissioned new plans to address other hazards. Once the Cabinet
o f Ministers has accepted and authorized the new planthe completed National
Emergency ResponsePlan for St. Luciawill comprise o f the following:

    0   HurricaneResponsePlan
    0   FloodManagement ResponsePlan
    0   Anse laRaye Evacuation Plan (Appendix to FloodManagement ResponsePlan)

                                         30


  e   Debbie ResponsePlan
  e   Volcanic EruptionResponsePlan
  e   Oil Spill Plan
  e   Hazardous Materials Plan
  e   Stress Management ResponsePlan
  e   HazardMitigationPlan
  e   MaritimeSearchand RescuePlan
  e   LandSearchandRescue Plan
  e   District Model Plan
  0   Policy on Donations
      Policy on Travel
  e   Policy on Management DeadBodies inDisasters
  e   Policy on Emergency Shelters
  e   Policy on Emergency Housing

NEMO's partners continue to work on the:

      Health Sector ResponsePlan
  e   MinistryofWorks ResponsePlan
      Borderlais Correctional Facility ResponsePlan
  e   Cruise Ship ResponsePlan
  e   Hospitality IndustryCrisis ResponsePlan

While NEMO works on:

  e   Policy Guidelines on Mass Crowds Events
  e   Policy on HazardMitigation
  e   Policy on DisplacedPersons
  e   Emergency Shelter Program.

                                              31


Annex E. SupplementalInformationon Project Objectives and
Components

The details on the various components o fthe ERDMP are as follows:

  0   Physical Preventionand Mitigation Works. Public infrastructure was to be
      strengthenedto makeit more storm-resistant andpublic buildingswere to be
      retrofitted so they couldbe usedas shelters (US$ 5.94 million). Specific works
      under this component were:
      .    Hewanorra Airport: Floodprotectionworks, including a hydrological
           assessment o f a river and, detailed engineeringfor sea defenses o f the airport
           andaringroadandan assessmento fnearby beachmovement.
      1    BridgesandRiver Training: Works at Marc Floissac andCaico, including the
           acquisitiono f a stock o f Bailey-type bridges.Replenishingthe stock o f

      .    gabions (heavy wire baskets usedto buildsmall-scale works when filled with
           rocks, stacked, and tiedtogether).
           Cul de Sac Valley: Floodpreventionworks, bridge construction, drainage,
           embankment works and raising the West Coast Road.
      =    Supplementary water storage capacity for Victoria Hospital.
          Disaster Management and Emergency Shelter Program: Retrofittingschools
          for use as emergency facilities and installing sanitary facilities adequate to
          such use. Capacitybuilding, emergency equipment and improved security for
          theMinistryofEducation, HumanResources Development, Youth and Sports
          (MEHRDYS).
  0   Strengthening the National Office o f Disaster Preparedness(US$ 0.86 million)
          Technical assistance and capacity buildingindisaster preparedness and
          management, planning, and mitigation activities.
      1   Establishingan emergency communications system at the national and local

      .   levels (including base station radios, repeaters, and mobileradios for District
          Committees).
          Establishingstockpiles o f disaster equipment and loss reductionmaterials
          (such as generators, water purification equipment, plastic sheeting, chain
          saws, lanterns, and first aid supplies).
  0   Strengthening the Early Warning System(US$ 0.44 million)
      1   Support the N M S byproviding an enhanced satellite receiving station with
          high-resolution imaging, upgradingthe World Area Forecast System, and
          providing computer andphone equipment.
     1    Development o f a Ham Weather Radio ObservationNetwork capable o f
     ..   weather monitoring.
          Development o f a Local Flood Warning System.
          Technical Assistance and Training inmeteorology andrelated subjects and
          assistance with equipment maintenance.
  0  Community Based Disaster Management (US$ 0.11million)
          Local disaster committees existed but neededto be strengthened.Disaster
          Committees were to beprovided training inorganization and functions o f the
          committee and in"Surviving the Next Disaster," and other skills such as

                                            32


          search andrescue and donations management. External sources o f assistance
          were to be sought. Disaster committees would be providedwith emergency
          equipment anddisaster supplies to be stored ina safeplace.
  0   InstitutionBuilding (US$ 0.24 million)
          An assessmentofpublic buildingsto develop optimalvulnerability reduction
          measures and/or an insurance strategy to minimize risk at a reasonable cost.
          Review existingbuildingcodes, landuse planning, andthe insurance sector.

      1   Hazardanalysis/vulnerability mapping.
      a   Pursueadoptionof a nationalbuildingcode andits effective enforcement.
  0   Project Management (US$ 0.6 1million) consisting o f technical assistance,
      equipment,workshops and audits.

The components ofthe second disaster management project are as follows:

  1. PhysicalPreventionandMitigation Work: (a) coastal protectionworks for
      DenneryVillage; (b) rehabilitation andreconstruction oftwo bridges; (c)
      drainage, river walls and slope stabilization. (d) retrofitting of schools; (e)
      retrofittingo fhealthcenters; (f) procurement o f additional stock o f gabion
      baskets, mattressesand geotextile; (g) technical audits for the coastal protection
      works at DenneryVillage; (h) training and capacity buildingfor the technical
      service division.
  2. StrengtheningEmergency PreparednessandResponse: (a) constructiono fthe
      EOC and central warehouse; (b) additional satellite warehouses; (c) installationo f
      water tanks inshelters; (d) technical assistance and training for the National
      Emergency Management Office (NEMO); (e) specialized disaster equipment.
  3. Institutional Strengthening:(a) buildingcode training and sensitization; (b)
      technical assistance interritorial planning; (c) vulnerability assessment and hazard
      mapping; (d) study on vulnerability andrisk transfer o f government assets.
  4. Project Management: (a) technical assistance to the PCU. Project management
      services, office equipment and supplies are also included. And (b) technical
      Audits.

                                            33


Annex F.Mission Site Visits
Castries
   0   river wall
   0   drains
       riversidebusinesses
   0   Pilot project on the road above Castries on the hillside.
Goodlands:
   0   gabions on the hillside o f the road
   0   back fillto stabilize road
   0   drains
   0   boulders works
Deglos Malc
   0   gabions (3 layers)
Malc bridge
   0   gabions
   0   concrete bridgewith steel railing
Bexon
   0   gabions and backfill to protect road
Cul-de-sac valley
       bridge
Bassinde Joseph
   0   large gabion structure with geotextile(5 layers)
Caico bridge
   0   gabion works on one side (4 layers)
   0   roadworks on hillside o f the road
   0   drainage works and culverts
Union
   0   gabion works, damaged by automobile accident
   0   masonrywall
Babonneau 1
   0   gabions (3 layers) to retainhillsidewall fkom sliding,
   0   protection for house above
Babonneau 2
   0   gabionbasket walls
Ceye-Meneger
   0   drainage and gabion structures
Lefeullie
       drainage
   0   gabion structures
Victoria Hospital
   0   water tank
   0   tank access road
   0   tank protection and soil stabilizationworks
   0   pipedsystemfor the hospital

                                          34


Thomazo
   0   gabions
   0   drainage system (4 layers)
Barre Florent
   0   gabions
   0   drainage
Mabouya Valley, Demiere River
   0   river training andrealignment
Dennery
   0   warehouse
   0   seadefense
   0   drainage
Cacoux Vigier
   0   flood protection
   0   gabions
Hewanoma Airport
   0   fence around the airport
   0   river training to prevent flooding
   0   outlet to sea
   0   accessroad
Darban
   0   gabionbaskets (18 layers)
Soufkiere
   0   gabionworks
   0   bridge
Bexon, RC Infant School:
   0   windows
   0   roof
   0   toilets
Bexon
   0   warehouse
Micoud
   0   warehouse
   0   Micoud Secondary school.
       door frames
       roof
       generator
       ceilings
       new louvers
Mongouge Combined School
   0   balcony
   0   newroof
    0  2 water tanks
Canaries
    0   satellite warehouse

                                                 35


0
  wb50296
  O:\URBANRon\St. Lucia AuditWinal St Lucia Audit to Print shop 6-27-05.doc
  07/14/2005 5:12:00 PM


