Page  1
January 28, 2002  
Mr.
Kenny D. Anthony
Prime Minister and Minister of Finance
Graham Louisy Administrative Building
Waterfront, Castries
Saint Lucia
Re: 
Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management
 
Project (Loan 4419-SLU / Credit 3151-SLU)
Amendment to Loan and Credit Agreements
Dear Mr. Anthony: 
Please refer to the Loan and Credit Agreements between Saint Lucia (the Borrower) and the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), both dated December 11, 1998, for 
the above mentioned Project. 
Pursuant to your request dated January 9, 2002 and our recent discussions on the subject, we are 
pleased to inform you that the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan and Credit Agreements as set forth 
below. 
Loan Agreement
1.
Section 2.03 is hereby amended and replaced to read in its entirety as follows:
“Section 2.03
The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.”
2.
Schedules 1 and 2 to the Loan Agreement are hereby amended and replaced in its 
entirely to read as per attachment I and II to this amendment letter. 
3.
Part C.4 of Section 1 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended and 
replaced to read in its entirety as follows:
“4.
Procurement of Small Works.
Works estimated to cost less than $37,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed, without the prior approval of the Bank, the amount of $550,000 
equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-priced contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to 
a
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detail description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement 
acceptable to the Bank and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be 
made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work and 
Page  2
who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.”
Credit Agreement
1.
Section 2.03 is hereby amended and replaced to read in its entirety as follows:
“Section 2.03
The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.”
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing and dating this letter in the spaces 
provided below. This amendment letter will be executed in two counterparts, each of which shall be an 
original.
Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us. The provisions of this 
amendment letter will become effective as of the date of this letter upon receipt by the Bank of one fully 
executed original of this amendment letter.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
_______________________________
Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Country Director 
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and The Caribbean Region
AGREED
:
SAINT LUCIA
By: _____________________
Authorized Representative
Name:
Kenny D. Anthony
Date:
February 7, 2002
Page  3
Attachment I
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan and of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
and the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan and the Credit to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars
)
SDRs
)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
1,800,000
1,031,327
75%
(2)
Goods
400,000
541,025
100%
(3)
Consultants’
500,000
384,364
100%
services
(4)
Operating
30,000
30,322
100%
expenditures
(5)
Fee
30,400
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
279,600
212,962
TOTALS
3,040,000
2,200,000
Attachment II
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
1.
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in preparing for, mitigating against and 
responding efficiently to disasters such as, but not limited to, hurricanes, tropical storms, floods, 
landslides, earthquakes, and storm surges, through physical strengthening of infrastructure, institutional 
development and training of human resources.
2.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower 
Page  4
and the Bank may agree upon from time to time, to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: Physical Works
1.
 Conducting a study to assess sea and beach movements and their impact on the airport; carrying 
out flood protection works as well as the detailed engineering for sea defenses at the Hewanorra Airport.
2.
Replacement of bridges at Caico and Marc Floissac and associated river-training works; 
strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Communications, Works, Transport, and Public Utilities to 
carry out bridge works and slope stabilization by replenishing the stocks of gabions, and Bailey-type 
bridge components.
3.
Review of existing designs and carrying out of an environmental impact assessment for bridge, 
road, drainage and embankment works for flood protection and for the large infrastructure project in the 
Cul de Sac Valley.
4.
Carrying out of a comprehensive study and design for the coastal protection of Dennery drainage 
and sea defense works.
5.
Construction of a supplementary water reservoir for the Victoria Hospital, including a 
gravity-fed or other system to connect the reservoir to the hospital; and 
6.
Strengthening of disaster management capacity of schools and libraries through the procurement 
of emergency equipment and the carrying out of related retrofitting works.
Part B
: Emergency Preparedness and Response
Strengthening of the capacities of the National Emergency Management Office (NEMO), 
formally known as the National Office of Disaster Preparedness (ODP) through:
(a)
providing NEMO with technical advisors to assist in mobilizing and maintaining support 
for disaster preparedness and management activities from business and industry and to assist in the 
development of planning for and mitigation of emergencies;
(b)
establishment of an island-wide communications system with base radio stations in each 
district, mobile radios for district Disaster Committees, and other  equipment necessary to ensure 
adequate communication under disaster conditions; and
(c)
establishment of stocks of specialized disaster equipment and loss reduction materials 
such as portable generators, water purification, storage and distribution equipment, reinforced plastic 
sheeting, chain saws, lanterns, first aid supplies and equipment for emergency response teams at the 
national and community levels.
Page  5
Part C
: Early Warning Systems
1.
Strengthening and development of the early warning system of the National Meteorological 
Service (NMS) through:
(a)
establishment of an enhanced satellite receiving station with a high-resolution imaging 
system capable of receiving data from satellites supplying early-warning information to the Caribbean 
region;
(b)
up-grading the Star IV computer terminal linking to the World Area Forecast System and 
acquisition of equipment for the MS, as well as three additional computers  with Internet connectivity 
and two printers;
(c)
installation of three additional telephone lines for the MS base at the Hewannorra 
International Airport; and
(d)
conducting training on: (i) the operation, repair and maintenance of new equipment;  and 
(ii) communications.
2.
Establishment of a national ham weather radio observation network; including necessary training 
for this purpose.
3.
(a)
Development of a local flood warning system, including rain gauges and river-flow 
gauges, data encoders and transmitters, repeaters for transmissions to base stations and establishment of a 
base station equipped with decoders and a computer with appropriate software; and
(b)
upgrading of the rain gauges network of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries, Forestry 
and the Environment, and shared access to rainfall data in real-time between this Ministry  and  the MS.
4.
Carrying out training courses, workshops and symposia necessary to ensure the effectiveness of 
the Early Warning System, such as, agrometeorology, climatology, satellite interpretation, hydrology, 
computer technology (GIS Systems software), meteorology and equipment maintenance and repair.
Part D
: Community-based Disaster Management
(a)
Implementing of community training programs for district Disaster Committee members, 
including training in community organization, disaster preparedness, and other competencies such as 
emergency search and rescue; and
(b)
provision of training in emergency shelter management. 
Part E
:
Institution Building
Page  6
1.
Development of a comprehensive hazard and vulnerability map of the country, preparation of an 
economic and population vulnerability analysis, and carrying out training for government, private sector 
and community personnel to better manage the disaster management and mitigation projects, to identify 
strategies for using such data in development planning across sectors and for disaster preparedness and 
mitigation.
2.
Carrying out of studies of government buildings and facilities to: (a) assess the value of such 
buildings and facilities; (b) evaluate the risk of potential damages; (c) determine the optimal vulnerability 
reduction measures through mitigation or retrofitting investments and/or adoption of an insurance 
strategy to minimize the cost of insurance for a given level or risk; (d) assess alternative financial 
instruments such as catastrophic bonds and weather hedges; (e) review existing regulatory requirements 
covering building codes, siting and land use planning, and recommend improvements to current 
practices; and (f) make recommendations with regard to the development of an insurance sector 
regulatory framework.
3.
Carrying out of an assessment of the enforcement of regulations concerning building standards 
and inspections, including (i) training of building officers in techniques of building appraisal and 
inspection; and (ii) formulation of recommendations as to the improvement of such enforcement.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
