Report No. 889a-NIR                                                                  FILE   COPY
Appraisal of a
Third Highway Project
Niger
February 3, 1976
Western Africa Projects Department
Highways Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit   =   CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00         =   CFAF 225
CFAF 1 million  =   US$14,4i.
Fiscal Year: July 1 - June 30
System of Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric                         British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                =  3.28 feet ( t)
1 kilometer (km)           =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )  =   0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)       =   2,204 pounds (lb)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADF     - African Development Fund
BADEA   - Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique
DPW     - Directorate of Pablic Works and Urban Arrairs
FAC     - Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FED     - Fonds Europeen de Dgveloppement
MPWT    - Ministry of Public Works, Transport, and Urban Affairs
SNGTN   - Soci4t' Nationale des Grands Travaux du Niger
SNTN    - Soci6te Nationale des Transporteurs Nige4riens
SNTP    - Societe' Nationale des Transports Fleuviaux



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGER
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY .............................................       - iii
1.   INTRODUCTION ............ .*                                 1
2.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .       . ...........................    2
A. Economic Setting                  ...2
B.   The Transport System    .      .................        3
C.  Transport Planning, Policy, and Coordination             4
3. HIGHWAYS ..                                                    5
A.   The Network ....................................        5
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic              6
C.   The Road Transport Industry .....................       6
D. Administration.                                           7
E. Planning ............. . . .                              7
F. Financing ......8......  ,.                               8
G.   Engineering and Construction.                           8
H. Maintenance.                                              9
4. THE PROJECT ...............                                   10
A. Description   ..10
- Maintenance Program   .             .10
-  Construction of Zinder-Nigerian Border Road         10
- Construction of Maradi-Nigerian Border
(Djibiya) Road.......                             1 1
-  Survey of the Domestic Construction Industry.       12
B.   Cost Estimates .................................       12
C. Execution   ..14
D.   Financing and Disbursements     .       .              16
This report has been prepared by Messrs. E. Staffini (Engineer) and D. Jovanovic
(Economist) following an appraisal mission in November/December 1974.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                   Page No.
5.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION .............................         18
A.  General      .........................................  18
B.  Maintenance Program ............ .. .............    18
C.  Construction of Zinder-Nigerian Border Road  ...     20
D.   Construction of Maradi-Nigerian Border Road  ...    20
6.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....    ..........  21
TABLES
1. Development of the Highway Network, 1968-74
2. Freight Transport Volumes
3. Investments in the Transport Sector, 1970-74
4. Growth of the Vehicle Fleet, 1969-73
5. Consumption of Petroleum Products, 1968-73
6. Highway Expenditures, 1970-74
7. Estimates of Government Revenues from Road Users, 1970-74
8. Design Standards for Road Construction Items
9. Project Cost Estimates
10. Description and Cost of Equipment to be Procured
11. Estimated 1976-79 Budgets for Highway Maintenance
12. Project Financing Plan
13. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
14. Estimates of Vehicle Operating Costs
15.  Estimated Economic Returns of Project Components
ANNEX
Details of Economic Analysis
MAPS
Road Network - IBRD 11522
Project Roads - IBRD 11523



NIGER
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The Republic of Niger is one of the largest landlocked countries
in Africa, but only about 10% of its land area has moderately fertile soils
and sufficient rainfall to allow crop cultivation. Agriculture provides about
half of Gross National Product (GNP), and groundnut production alone contri-
butes about 35% of total export earnings.
ii.       The flows of Niger's external trade are very sensitive to transport
costs because of the long distances between important production centers and
to ocean ports, and the fact that scarce natural resources causes heavy
dependence on imports. Over the past decade, therefore, Government policy in
the transport sector has been to upgrade major trunk roads and to ensure
adequate maintenance of the entire highway system. The paved road network
has increased from about 150 km in 1965 to about 1,300 km in 1974, and further
upgrading of trunk roads is planned; also, the maintenance organization is now
competent to carry out routine operations on more than half of the classified
road system, and plans are underway for further development of maintenance
capacity. Additionally, the Government started in 1974 a program for improve-
ment of about 1,400 km of feeder roads.
iii.      Bank Group operations to date for highway development have been
directed to upgrading trunk roads, reviewing and reorganizing routine main-
tenance procedures, and some training of staff of the Directorate of Public
Works and Urban Affairs (DPW). The projects have all been satisfactorily
executed, and the most recent one is now virtually complete. The Associa-
tion is also helping finance one other project in the transport sector for
strengthening and improvement of the runway and facilities at Niamey Inter-
national Airport; construction works are underway.
iv.       The principal aims of the proposed Third Highway Project are to
consolidate and expand the maintenance efforts started under Credit 128-NIR,
as well as to improve major trunk roads in the south which support agricul-
tural development, and to provide better transport connections for export/import
traffic flows via Nigeria. The project consists of: (a) a four-year program
of periodic road maintenance, including procurement of equipment and training
of specialized DPW staff at all levels, to be implemented with the assistance
of consultants; (b) construction and improvement of the roads Zinder-Nigerian
border (about 113 km), and Maradi-Nigerian border (Djibiya) (about 49 km); and
(c) a survey of the domestic construction industry to determine its present
state, and to recommend measures for fostering its development.
v.        The total capital cost of the project, net of taxes and duties, is
estimated at US$28.7 million equivalent, with foreign costs of about US$24.7
million (86%). Taxes and duties are estimated at US$9.8 million equivalent.
The project will be financed by the Association, the Arab Bank for Economic



- ii -
Development in Africa (Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique,
BADEA), the African Development Fund (ADF), and by the Government, under separate
agreements for each lending agency. The proposed financing plan, with the
corresponding proportion of total project costs net of taxes to be provided
by each entity, is as follows: IDA Credit, US$15.6 million (54.3%); BADEA,
US$7 million (24.4%); ADF, US$3.6 million 1/ (12.5%); Government, US$2.5 million
(8.8%). Disbursements from the proposed Credit will be as follows: (i) 51%
of total expenditures for technical assistance and training, and other con-
sulting services; (ii) 53% of totaL expenditures for equipment purchase;
and (iii) 44% of total expenditures for road construction.
vi.       In addition to its contribution to the capital costs of the project,
the Government will also meet recurrent expenditures for road maintenance
operations to be carried out. Preliminary estimates of DPW road maintenance
budgets for 1976-79 have been prepared, and the Government will use these
estimates as the basis for preparing its maintenance budgets (with appro-
priate adjustments for price variations), and has agreed to review each proposed
annual budget in consultation with the Association, before May 31 of each
year.
vii.      Execution of the project -will be the responsibility of DPW, assisted
by consultants for technical assistance to implement the periodic maintenance
program, supervision of construction, and the survey of the domestic construc-
tion industry. The Government is planning to employ consultants BCEOM
(France) for the technical assistance because of its experience with local con-
ditions and problems acquired during its reorganization of routine maintenance
operations in the country; the Association accepts this arrangement. Consult-
ants for the other project items abovementioned will be selected in agreement
with, and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
viii.     Periodic maintenance will be carried out by force account with
equipment to be procured under the project. Four DPW regravelling units to
be established will be expected ultimately to maintain annually about 320 km
of gravel roads, a rate sufficient to keep the gravel network in satisfactory
condition. During the three-year period required for the units to become fully
functional, some of the regravelling works may also provide suitable training
for newly-established domestic road contractors, and the Government has agreed
that, based on the findings and recommendations of the construction industry
survey to be carried out, it will examine with the Association the possibility
of having some participation by domestic contractors in the execution of re-
gravelling works.
ix.       The proposed project also provides for about 160 man-months of
technical assistance to help reorganize DPW's activities to handle its in-
creased maintenance responsibilities, and to train specialized local personnel
at all levels. Training will be done essentially on the job, complemented
by theoretical courses. The Government will prepare, with the assistance of
consultants, a detailed program with quantitative targets for the training
1/   ADF loan will be in ADF Units of Account 3.24 million, presently equivalent
to US$3.6 million.



- iii - 
of DPW engineers, unit chiefs, and workshop and field personnel, and will
submit it to the Association, within four months of the date of effectiveness
of the proposed Credit, for review and approval.
x.        Equipment will be procured on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. However, for items
or groups of items expected to cost the equivalent of US$10,000 or less, up
to an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of US$300,000, procurement
may be on the basis of local bidding procedures acceptable to the Association.
The Government was planning to have consultants prepare bidding documents for
equipment purchase prior to Board consideration of the proposed project, and
requested that the Association consider retroactive financing of expenditures
incurred for this purpose. The Association has approved the Government's
request for an amount not exceeding US$40,000.
xi.       Detailed engineering and bidding documents for the road construction
works have been prepared by consultants Louis Berger (US) under Credit 231-NIR,
and submitted to the Association for review and approval; these documents
provide for a preference in bid evaluation to domestic contractors in accord-
ance with Bank Group guidelines. Construction will be carried out under unit
price contract to be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Construction works are expected to
start in mid-1976, and to last about two years for the Zinder-Nigerian border
road (113 km), and about one year for the Maradi-Nigerian border road.
xii.      In order to ensure that the interdependent aspects of the project
items are adequately taken into account by the co-lenders, the Association
will enter into understandings with BADEA and ADF, according to which they
would agree to coordinate their actions and to keep each other informed of
the status of project implementation.
xiii.     The maintenance and construction works under the proposed project
are expected to result in reduced vehicle operating costs and increased effi-
ciency of the road transport industry. There would also be Government savings
in future road rehabilitation costs. The best estimate of economic return for
the maintenance program is about 28%; for construction of the Zinder-Nigerian
border road, about 13%; and for construction of the Maradi-Nigerian border
road, about 16%. The weighted average economic return for the project is
estimated to be over 17%.
xiv.      The proposed project is suitable for a Credit of US$15.6 million
to the Government of the Republic of Niger on standard IDA terms.






NIGER
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Over recent years, Government policy in Niger's transport sector
has been to upgrade major trunk roads in the south of the country, and to en-
sure adequate maintenance of the entire highway system. This strategy is ap-
propriate to the vital aeed for improved facilities which would promote agri-
cultural development and provide better connections for export/import traffic
flows, as well as the assurance of greater transport reliability particularly
during the rainy season. In support of its policy abovementioned, the Gov-
ernment is planning to implement a Third Highway Project, and has requested
Bank Group assistance in financing it (para 1.05).
1.02      To date, Bank Group operations in Niger's transport sector have
been for highway development and for airport infrastructure. The (First)
Highway Project (Credit 55-NIR, US$1.5 million, 1964) consisted of engineering
and construction of about 60 km of roads serving groundnut traffic. In
1965, the Bank made a US$85,000 grant for a road maintenance study which was
carried out by consultants BCEOM (France). The main conclusions of the study
were that local personnel needed extensive training, and that highway equipment
was inadequate and in many cases obsolete. The consultants recommended phased
reorganization of maintenance, with the first phase limited to routine
operations. Work on eliminating the backlog of periodic maintenance would be
assigned to contractors in the first instance, and the reorganization of DPW's
own activities in periodic maintenance would constitute a second phase of the
proposed program. As a result of the above recommendations, a highway main-
tenance project (Credit 128-NIR, US$6.47 million, 1968) provided for the
reorganization of routine maintenance operations, and elimination of the
backlog of deferred maintenance. The project also included feasibility
studies for about 300 km of roads, with detailed engineering for about 140 km
of the highest priority sections, carried out by consultants SCET-COOP
(France).
1.03      A subsequent highway project (Credit 231-NIR, US$6.55 million, 1971)
provided for construction of the 140 km of roads abovementioned, and prein-
vestment studies for about 170 km of roads serving agricultural areas. The
studies carried out by consultants Louis Berger (US) showed that feasibility
of the Zinder-Bande road (73 km) was contingent on reconstruction of the
connecting Babura-Kunya road in Nigeria; when sufficient assurances were
received from the Government of Nigeria that this road would be improved, the
study was extended to cover the route through Magaria and Tinkim to the
Nigerian border, a distance of about 113 km. Construction of the other project
road studied (Niamey-Baleyara, 97 km) was found premature, and at the Govern-
ment's request, detailed engineering of the road was dropped and replaced by
that for reconstruction of Maradi-Nigerian Border (49 km), proposed for fin-
ancing under the present project.



-2-
1.04      The Association is also helping finance a project (Credit 473-NIR,
US$5.0 million, 1974) for modern:lzation and expansion of the facilities at
Niamey International Airport to assure its continued use by international
transit traffic, as well as to provide for future traffic growth and to facil-
itate development generally. The project consists essentially of lengthening
and rehabilitation of the existinig runway and taxiway to accommodate wide-
bodied aircraft, and procurement of various items of airport safety equipment.
Construction works are underway.
1.05      The Third Highway Project now proposed consists of:  (a) a four-year
program of periodic highway maintenance, representing a second phase of
implementation of the BCEOM recommendations (para 1.02), and covering expansion
of the existing DPW organization, equipment purchase, and appropriate training
of specialized DPW staff at all levels, to be implemented with the assistance
of consultants; (b) construction of the road from Zinder to the Nigerian
border (113 kIn), and of the Maradi-Nigerian border road (49 km); and (c) a
survey of the domestic construction industry to determine its present state
and to recommend appropriate measures for fostering its development. The
total capital cost of the project: (net of taxes and duties) is estimated at
US$28.7 million equivalent, with foreign costs of about US$24.7 million (86%),
and local costs of about US$4.0 million equivalent (14%). The project will be
jointly financed by the Association (US$15.6 million) and the Arab Bank for
Economic Development in Africa (US$7.0 million), and on a parallel basis by
the African Development Fund (US$3.6 million), under separate agreements for
each agency. The Government is expected to provide US$12.3 million equivalent,
of which US$9.8 million equivalent represents the entire component for taxes
and duties, and the balance of US$2.5 million equivalent in other local costs.
1.06      This report is based on studies by consultants BCEOM and Louis
Berger, on information provided by DPW, and on the findings of an appraisal
mission comprising Messrs. E. Staffini (Engineer) and D. Jovanovic (Economist)
which visited Niger in November/December 1974.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Economic Setting
2.01      Niger is one of the largest landlocked countries in Africa, covering
about 1.3 million km2. However, about 90% of this area lies in the desert
regions of the Sahara, and only in the extreme south of the country is the
land moderately fertile and the rainfall sufficient for cultivation of some
food crops (millet, groundnuts, sorghum, and cotton). The most important
economic and administrative centers are therefore located in this southern
region, as is most of the population of about 4.3 million.
2.02      Per capita Gross National Product (GNP) was estimated in 1972 at
about US$90, a level which has remained stagnant over the past several years



-3-
due partly to the effects of the recent drought, and partly to the high rate
of population growth (about 2.2% p.a.). About half of GNP is provided by
agriculture, with groundnuts, the main export product, contributing about 35%
of total export earnings. The industrial sector now provides only about 15%
of GNP, but earnings from uranium exploitation at the Arlit mines are growing,
and in 1973 reached about 40% of total export value.
B.   The Transport System
2.03      The domestic transport system is a simple one based on about 7,000
km of classified roads of generally low design standards (Table 1). About
1,300 km of the network are paved roads, mostly on the east-west route which
runs from the Mali border to Lake Chad, and which is the main axis connecting
important economic centers (see Map 11522). Details on the road system and
on the characteristics of road transport are given in Chapter 3.
2.04      The flows of Niger's external trade are very sensitive to transport
costs because of the long distances between important production centers and
to ocean ports, and the fact that scarce natural resources causes heavy
dependence on imports. The major sections of the routes to the sea lie outside
the country, and Niger has little control over the high costs of transit.
There are three main export/import outlets:
(i)  the Nigeria route (about 1,300 km from Zinder to the sea)
which connects the central and eastern regions by road to
Kano, and thence by rail to the port of Lagos;
(ii)  the Dahomey route (about 1,100 km from Niamey to the sea)
which connects Gaya by road to Parakou, and thence by rail
to Cotonou; and
(iii)  the Ivory Coast route (about 1,650 km from Niamey) which
connects the capital by road to Ouagadougou (Upper Volta), and
thence by rail to Abidjan.
At present, the Nigerian route carries about 50% of total import/export freight
traffic, the Dahomey route about 45%, and the Ivory Coast route the remainder.
2.05      Efforts to establish commercial transport on the Niger River have
so far not been successful, but the Government created in 1972 a Societe
Nationale des Tranaports Fleuviaux (SNTF) which is working towards using the
river as an alternative outlet to the sea. The Canadian International Develop-
ment Agency (CIDA) financed the initial purchases of SNTF's fleet, as well as
the cost of trials from Gaya to the port of Warri (Nigeria), a distance of about
1,400 km. The first trial took place in 1973, but activities are still con-
ducted on an experimental basis and the final result remains uncertain. The
Government is understandably anxious that the trials should be successful,
since river services could substantially reduce transport costs for the
western regions during the annual 6-7 month period when navigation is possiole.
However, commercial river transport will not be feasible until several techni-
cal and financial problems concerning both Niger and Nigeria are solved;



-4-
these problems include river regulation, installation of signalling systems,
provision of terminal storage facilities, etc.
2.06      The international airport at Niamey is the closest to Europe among
the West African countries, and is therefore an important transit stop; as
such, it can stimulate the economy and generate significant revenues from
aircraft landing charges. In view of the importance to the economy of re-
taining transit traffic for Niamey airport, the Association is helping finance
a project for its improvement (para. 1.04).
2.07      The domestic airline Air Niger, a company in which the Government is
majority shareholder, provides scheduled services to five airfields; there
are also about 14 airstrips in outlying regions of the country. The volume
of air freight traffic increased over 1969-73 by about 12.5% p.a., with
Niamey airport handling about 95% of the total (Table 2). Domestic freight
traffic is negligible, totalling not more than about 300 tons p.a. The
potential role of domestic air transport in Niger could be quite substantial,
but no analysis in this respect has yet been made (paras. 2.12-2.13).
C.   Transport Planning, Policy, and Coordination
2.08      Decisions on transport investments are made by the Planning Division
of the Ministry of Development, which also coordinates the necessary external
financing; all decisions are subject to final approval by the recently estab-
lished National Council for Development. The Ministry is however unable to
play an adequate role in transport. planning and development, partly because
of the cumbersome procedures involved in decision-making, and also because
of a shortage of qualified staff.
2.09      Formal responsibility for transport policy and coordination is
assigned to the Ministry of Public Works, Transport, and Urban Affairs (MPWT),
which discharges this task through its Directorate of Transport. However, the
Directorate is also short of qualified staff, and is generally too weak for
meaningful participation in policy-making and investment planning. Highway
administration, design, construction, and maintenance, is the responsibility
of MPWT's Directorate of Public Works and Urban Affairs (DPW) which is better
organized and staffed (paras. 3.07 - 3.08).
2.10      The development of transport infrastructure has been slow and un-
balanced. Emphasis has been placed on improving the trunk road network, and
over 1970-74, paving of the main east-west road, together with improvement of
the international airport at Niamey, were allocated a major part of capital
investments in the sector (about US$50 million equivalent, mostly through
foreign aid) (Table 3). Although about 90% of total investments were devoted
to highways, improvement of secondary and feeder roads was only negligible;
this neglect has naturally hindered the development of many segments of the
rural population, and caused problems in the distribution of food supplies
during the recent drought. The new Government which took office in 1974 now
attaches priority to the need for an improved network of secondary and feeder
roads, and a program of work on about 1,400 km of these roads has been launched
as part of drought relief measures and within agricultural development proj-
ects; financing for the program is being provided by the Fonds Europeen de



-5-
Developpement (FED), Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KFW, Germany), and the
United States Agency for International Development (USAID). The maintenance
component of the proposed project will complement these efforts.
2.11      Capital investments in transport over the five-year period 1970-74
were estimated at about 25% of total capital expenditures, a level which
appears inadequate considering the importance of and requirements in the
sector. The country's increasing reliance on imports can be expected to
increase the sensitivity of its landlocked economy to the quality and cost of
transport services both within the country and on its external access routes
to the sea. The need is therefore for a continuing increase in transport
infrastructure investments, and these are expected to be covered mostly by
foreign aid, the source of well over 90% of investments in the sector in 1970-
74 (Table 3).
2.12      Inter-modal coordination is not a problem, because road transport
is so clearly dominant and there is little Government intervention in the mode
(para. 3.06). However, development of air transport could have important
potential, and appears to be the most suitable alternative for the flow of
selected goods and services to remote regions in the north and east where low
traffic volumes do not justify substantial road investments. This issue
deserves careful attention and analysis, and will be investigated in the near
future (para. 2.13).
2.13      In order to fill the gap in the current planning organization and to
provide the basis for determining investment priorities in the transport sec-
tor, especially in the absence of a detailed economic development plan for
the country, the French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) is planning to
finance a study of transport development to be executed over 1976/77. The
proposed study, which will be a follow-up to one carried out in 1967 (para.
3.09), wi'll investigate particularly the planned upgrading of the road sys-
tem, and in this context will also consider the viability of developing air
services as an alternative mode of transit to certain areas.
3. HIGHWAYS
A.   The Network
3.01      There are about 7,000 km of classified roads, of which about 1,300
km are paved; the remainder are gravel or earth roads and tracks which are of
generally low design standards, and some of which are periodically closed to
traffic during the rainy season (Table 1). There are also about 4,000 km of
unclassified earth tracks connecting areas of agricultural activity. The
network distribution is concentrated in the south where most centers of pop-
ulation and of economic activity are located; the vast uninhabited areas in
the rest of the country are only sparsely served (Map 11522). The topography
of the country is for the most part quite flat, and presents no major physical
barriers to land transport.



-6-
B. Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.02      Traffic density patterns follow the location of economic activity
in the south and southwest. Transport demand is seasonal because of the pre-
dominance of agriculture. There is no regular collection of traffic data;
the most recent country-wide counts carried out in 1969 by DPW with BCEOM
assistance, showed that most of the trunk roads carried an average of less
than 60 vehicles per day (vpd).  DPW was planning to carry out a two-week
traffic count during 1975 on the most important roads in the country.  Also,
new country-wide traffic counts are expected to be carried out during 1976/77
under the proposed FAC-financed transport study (para. 2.13).
3.03      The motor vehicle fleet has been increasing over recent years at
about 11% p.a., and in 1973 totalled about 17,000 units, of which more than
75% were light vehicles (Table 4). The existing truck fleet is considered
more than adequate to serve present requirements (paras. 3.04-3.05). The
consumption of gasoline and diesel oil increased over 1968-73 at an average
of 7% p.a. and 11% p.a. respectively (Table 5). As a result of this trend,
as well as the recent growth rate of export and import volumes of 7% and 10%
p.a. and the 5% p.a. increase in agricultural production over 1968-72, it is
not unreasonable to assume that road traffic on the entire network will
increase at an average of about 7% p.a. over the short term.
C. The Road Transport Industry
3.04      Public freight transport is handled by well over 250 transporters,
about half of them located in the capital city Niamey. The largest of these
is the Societe Nationale des Transporteurs Nigeriens (SNTN), a company with
mixed capital (Government 49%; foreign, mainly French, 47%; and Niger private,
4%). The company owns a fleet of about 260 units, and when necessary, rents
trucks. It handles about 75% of fuel transport, and about 30% of all general
freight carried; it has the monopoly for transport of uranium ore from the
mines at Arlit through Niamey to Parakou (Dahomey).
3.05      There is little direct Government intervention in road transport
operations. There is no monopoly in road transport (except SNTN's for uranium
ore), and no official tariffs. These latter are negotiatble, and are deter-
mined on a case-by-case basis; in 1974, actual tariffs ranged between CFAF
16-24 (USe 7-11) per ton-km, only slightly higher than in the coastal coun-
tries of West Africa. The prevailing competition among truckers and the lack
of tariff regulations or "middle man" mean that much of the decrease in vehicle
operating costs resulting from road improvements will most probably be trans-
ferred to producers and consumers. Unlike freight haulage, passenger transport
is poorly organized, and demand is higher than the present capacity.
3.06      Vehicles used for public road transport must have licenses issued
by MPWT; however, because the existing trucking capacity is far higher than
demand, it is not easy to obtain these licenses. MPWT also requires that
vehicles for freight transport undergo a technical inspection twice a year,
and those for passenger transport, four times a year; enforcement of this



-7-
regulation is however quite loose. Maximum loads are specified by law at
13 tons per axle, but this is also not strictly enforced.
D.   Administration
3.07      DPW has overall responsibility for the administration, design, con-
struction, and maintenance of the road system; it also has charge of govern-
ment buildings, and of hydraulic and electrical engineering works. For high-
ways, the Road Study Office is in charge of design, and the Central Office for
Roads and New Works (Central Road Office, CRO) handles construction and main-
tenance works, including management of DPW's equipment pool. CRO's field
organization consists of three regional divisions and ten subdivisions. A
National Public Works Laboratory in Niamey is competent to perform some soil
tests necessary for road design and construction; laboratory equipment was
financed under Credit 128-NIR.
3.08      DPW's staffing situation is quite adequate, especially the Equipment
Division which was satisfactorily reorganized under Credit 128-NIR; however,
specialized personnel require additional training to carry out effective
periodic maintenance operations, and this will be provided under the proposed
project (para. 4.15). Management personnel are almost all non-Nigeriens,
mostly French engineers under a long-standing FAC technical assistance program;
some lower-level French officers also serve under this program. The Ministry
of Development has prepared a plan for Nigerien staff to take over respon-
sibilities now held by foreigners in all Ministries; implementation of this
plan within DPW is however quite difficult, as only a few local counterparts
are available, mostly at middle-level positions, and they need more work
experience to become sufficiently qualified to replace expatriate staff.
Clearly, a realistic and well-defined training program is needed for high-
level DPW staff, and the Government has agreed to establish such a program
in consultation with the Association. The Government provided assur-
ances that it will: (i) review and update, in agreement with the Asso-
ciation, its replacement plan for DPW management personnel before Tecemrbr 31.
1976; (ii) review annually with the Association progress made in implementing
the plan; and (iii) take all necessary actions, in consultation with the
Association, to prepare and carry out an appropriate training program for
the relevant personnel.
E.   Planning
3.09      Under a FAC-financed transport study carried out in 1967, consultants
SEDES (France) developed an eight-year plan (1968-75) which focussed on two
main requirements: upgrading the important east-west trunk road (about 1,800
km), and improving import-export routes. Highway investments over the period
have been based on this plan. The Bank Group has participated through Credit
231-NIR which helped finance paving of the Niamey-Tillabery section (115 km)
of the east-west road; construction of import/export routes from Zinder and
Maradi to the Nigerian border is proposed under the present project.
3.10       Since transport demand is generally low, major new investment in expaL-
sion of the present road system is not economically justified. The appropriate



- 8 -
strategy for coping with the critical problem of high domestic transport costs
is to preserve the existing network from deterioration, and to plan for progressive
improvements.  Government policy in highway planning is in line with this
strategy; its main objectives are: (i) to widen and strengthen about 400 km
of roads built during the 1960's to one-lane paved standards; and (ii) to
upgrade the roads Tahoua-Agades (405 km) and Agades-Arlit (245 km) which would
serve mining development in the northwest. Improvement of secondary roads is
also envisaged. Detailed planning of this large program, which will require
a long period for execution and substantial external aid, will be done under
the proposed FAC-financed transport survey (para. 2.13). For highways, the
consultants will be expected to determine what elements of the program are
clearly justified, and to establish an investment plan according to well-
defined priority rankings and in the light of financing possibilities.
F.   Financing
3.11      Highway expenditures are financed from three sources:  the National
Budget provides funds for administration and routine maintenance of national
roads; the National Investment Fund (para. 3.12 below) finances minor road
improvements and periodic maintenance works; foreign aid financing (princi-
pally from FAC, FED, USAID, and the Bank Group) is spent mostly on new con-
struction. Road expenditures over 1970-74 totalled about CFAF 16.1 billion
(US$68.5 million equivalent), of which CFAF 11.2 billion (US$46 million) or
70% for investment, and the rest for maintenance (Tables 3 and 6).
3.12      Road users contribute to the National Budget through taxes levied
on fuels (CFAF 16/liter on gasoline, CFAF 6/liter on diesel oil), taxes and
duties on imports of vehicles and spare parts, and taxes for vehicle regis-
tration and licensing. Additional taxes on fuels (CFAF 6/liter on gasoline,
CFAF 4/liter on diesel oil) are earmarked for road expenditures in the
National Investment Fund, established in 1970 to replace the Road Fund.
Total revenues from all the above sources amounted over 1970-74 to about
CFAF 7 billion (US$28.4 million equivalent) (Table 7); Government expenditures
for highway maintenance over the same period totalled about CFAF 5 billion
(US$20 million).
G.   Engineering and Construction
3.13      DPW's Road Study Office has design capacity for minor improvement
works; road design for major projects is done by foreign consultants.
3.14      The domestic construction industry is at an early stage of develop-
ment.  In building construction, there are several contractors who can compete
with foreign firms. For road works, however, there are only two domestic firms,
and the activities of one of them are limited to transporting construction
materials; the other, the Societe Nationale des Grands Travaux du Niger (SNGTN) 1/
has staff and equipment to handle fairly large road works, as well as a variety
1/   A limited company whose capital is now entirely Nigerien (Government and
Niger Development Bank).



-9-
of building construction jobs. Its financial situation is nonetheless precarious,
with a deficit in 1974 of about CFAF 40 million. Fortunately, this deficit is
expected to be partially offset by anticipated profits of about CFAF 30 mil-
lion from SNGTN's first international joint venture in road construction, a
contract with SATOM (France) for reconstruction of the Tsernaoua-Tahoua road
(122 km) being carried out with FAC financing. The International Labor Office
(ILO) carried out a study of SNGTN's operations, and concluded that the com-
pany would need an annual minimum turnover of CFAF 1 billion (about US$4.4
million) in 1974 costs and prices to break even, a volume not likely to be
achieved on projects in Niger alone. Therefore, unless SNGTN can break into
foreign markets, it appears unlikely to become a profitable operation.
3.15      In an attempt to promote the domestic industry, the Government in-
tends to grant a 7-1/2% nominal preference in Bank Group-financed civil works
to contractors suitably prequalified as bona fide domestic firms. In order
to provide further stimulus to development of the industry, the Government
has agreed to have consultants carry out a brief survey of the industry to
determine appropriate policy to be followed and requirements in technical and
financial assistance. The proposed project provides financing for the neces-
sary consulting services (para. 4.09).
H.   Maintenance
3.16      Road maintenance is carried out by DPW's regional divisions and
their subdivisions. Routine maintenance techniques and output have improved
substantially as a result of the iHighway Maintenance Project (Credit 128-NIR).
Highway equipment is in satisfactory condition, mainly because of the progress
made in reorganization of DPW's Equipment Division. The establishment of an
analytical accounting system has made it possible to determine the costs of
routine maintenance operations, and this will allow adequate planning of
operations and budgets. As regards periodic maintenance operations, the
Highway Maintenance Project achieved its aim of elirninating the heavy back-
log by regravelling about 750 km of roads by contract. Once this was done,
periodic maintenance continued to be carried out mostly by contract, but at
a slower and inadequate rate because of a shortage of Government funds. Since
there is only one domestic road contractor, the works have been executed
almost entirely by foreign contractors at a -ost considerably higher than by
force account. One of the objectives of the proposed Third Highway Project
is to enable DPW to progressively assume responsibility for carrying out
periodic maintenance with its own forces (para. 4.02).
3.17      The Government provided assurances under Credit 231-NIR that it
would make adequate budget allocations to ensure proper maintenance of the
road network. Accordingly, expenditures for maintenance (including adminis-
tration) have increased from about CFAF 756 million in 1970 to about CFAF 1.1
billion in 1974 (Table 6), and have even exceeded the amounts forecast during
appraisal of the abovementioned project. For 1975, however, the maintenance
allocation dropped below the previous year's level. In order to avert the
serious road deterioration that could result from the shortage of funds, DPW
has had to request an extraordinary allocation of CFAF 200 million which is
to be provided out of budget reserves. Estimates have been



- 10 -
prepared of road maintenance expenditures over the implementation period of
the proposed project, and these will serve as the basis for Government budget
allocations (para. 4.20).
4. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
4.01      The proposed project consists of:
(a) implementation of a four-year program of periodic maintenance,
including procurement of equipment and training of specialized
DPW staff at all levels;
(b) construction and improvement of the roads Zinder-Nigerian
border (about 113 km), and Maradi-Nigerian border (Djibiya)
(about 49 km); and
(c) consulting services for: (i) technical assistance required
under item (a) above; (ii) supervision of road construction;
and (iii) a survey of the domestic construction industry.
Maintenance Program
4.02      Under the Highway Maintenance Project, BCEOM analyzed during 1974
the future maintenance requirements of the road network; the consultants paid
particular attention to periodic operations as a follow-up of their 1967
maintenance study (para. 1.02). One conclusion of the analysis was that
periodic maintenance should be applied to about 320 km of gravel roads an-
nually in order to keep the network in satisfactory condition; however, at
present only about 150 km of these roads are regravelled annually, and unless
appropriate action is taken to increase this, a backlog of deferred main-
tenance will again build up and the results achieved under the maintenance
project will be lost (para. 3.16). The most effective procedure for executing
periodic maintenance is to have DPW's own forces carry out the required
operations: its administrative structure is adequate for the task, its field
organization is already in place, and the costs of force account operations
have been estimated in the BCEOM analysis to be about 30% lower than by con-
tract. The proposed project therefore provides for execution of a four-year
periodic maintenance program over 1976-79, including technical assistance
required to organize the new DPW activities and to train specialized personnel
at all levels, as well as procurement of necessary highway equipment (paras.
4.13-4.17).
Construction of the Zinder-Nigerian Border Road (113 km)
4.03      The existing section Zinder-Bande (73 km) is a poorly aligned road
whose gravel surface is almost entirely worn out; since its roadway is for the



- 1 1 -
most part below the surrounding terrain, the road is either covered with wind-
blown sand, or flooded during the rainy season. The section Bande-Magaria
(21.5 km) was built to gravel standards with FED financing in 1967, but the
surface is now in very poor condition, partly because of the heavy traffic
carried during construction in 1974 of the following section Magaria-Tinkim
(about 13.5 km) under Credit 231-NIR. The last section from Tinkim to the
Nigerian border (about 5.5 km) is an earth track passable only during the
dry season, and then only by four-wheel drive vehicles.
4.04      Under the proposed project, the entire road from Zinder to the
Nigerian border will be constructed to two-lane paved standard. The pavement
will be 6 m wide on a total roadway width of 8 m; a design speed of 100 km/h
has been adopted, and an axle-load of 13 t will be possible (Table 8). These
design standards are consistent with projected traffic requirements, terrain
in the area, and general soil conditions. The sections Zinder-Bande and
Tinkim-Nigerian border will have to be completely reconstructed; the Bande-
Magaria section will be upgraded and realigned as necessary; the recently
constructed Magaria-Tinkim section will require only paving.
4.05      Justification for the above works depends on construction of the
connecting Babura-Kunya road (96 km) in Nigeria. Official assurances have
been received from the Niger-Nigeria Joint Commission that Nigeria's Third
National Development Plan (1975-80) lists the Babura-Kunyia road as a federal
road, and that it will be reconstructed. These assurances have been reconfirmed
during Credit negotiations, and are considered adpquate. In any event, should
the situation change with regard to the Nigeria Government's decisions before
the start of construction of the project road, then *he Association will review
its position on the proposed works.
Construction of the Maradi-Nigerian BordL- (Ljibiya) R3ad (49 km)
4.06      The exisrLing road was built in i958-59 with FED financing to one-
lane paved staxudarus (81 l roadway width, 3.5 m pavement).  Traffic levels on
the road have now become too heavy (about 280 vpd, of which about 20% trucks)
for the design standard, and the surface treatment is consequently severely
cracked and deteriorated; it is completely destroyed over one 10 km section
where traffic runs on the gravel base course which is also almost worn out.
4,07      The road is now the most heavily trafficked in the country; besides,
it is one of the main connecting routes with Nigeria, and the shortest link
from Niamey to Kano, the railhead for the route to the ocean. Because of the
existing traffic situation and the projected increase, the Nigerian Government
has recently built a two-lane paved road from Kano to the border. The proposed
project provides for the Maradi-Nigerian border road in Niger to be widened to
standards fairly close to those of the Nigerian road; consultants have pro-
posed a 10 m roadway with a 7 m bituminous paveTnent designed for a 13 t axle
load; the design speed adopted is 100 km/h. (Table 8). The existing hori-
zontal alignment is appropriate to the design speed, and no changes are re-
quired; the vertical alignment will require improvement at a few points.



- 12 -
Survey of the Domestic Construction Industry
4.08      The proposed project provides for about eight man-months of con-
sulting services to prepare a brief survey of the domestic construction indus-
try. The consultants would be expected to review the present status of the
industry and its potential for development, taking into account work pos-
sibilities in the public and the private sectors. They would also attempt to
identify factors hindering the growth of the industry, and propose possible
solutions. Additionally, they would be expected to review: (i) current
bidding and contracting documentation and procedures; (ii) the availability of
facilities to provide capital and other financial services; and (iii) the
specific needs of domestic contractors and Government officials for technical
advice and assistance. Outline terms of reference have been discussed and
agreed with the Government.
B.   Cost Estimates
4.09      The total capital cost of the project, net of taxes and duties, is
estimated at US$28.7 million equivalent, with foreign costs of about US$24.7
million (86%); taxes and duties total about US$9.8 million equivalent, and
other local costs about US$4.0 million equivalent. Estimates reflect prices
at end-1975. Details of cost estimates are given in Table 9 and summarized
below:



- 13 -
- CFAF Million ----  ----  US$'000 ------   Foreign
as %
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total of Total
A. Maintenance Program
(i) Technical Assistance
and Training   134       277     411    595    1,230   1,825    67
(ii) Equipment         255      785   1,040  1,135    3,485   4,620    75
389   1,062   1,451  1,730    4,715   6,445    73
B. Construction
(i)  Zinder-Nigerian
border road
(113 km)        1,126   1,794   2,920  5,005    7,975  12,980    61
(ii) Maradi-
Nigerian
border road
(49 km)           640   1,020   1,660  2,845    4,535   7,380    61
(iii) Supervision       127      237      364    565    1,055   1,620    65
1,893   3,051   4,944  8,415   13,565  21,980    62
C. Survey of Domestic
Construction
Industry                  5       9       14      20       40       60    66
Subtotal A-C         2,287   4,122   6,409 10,1b5   18,320  28,485    64
D. Contingencies
(i)  Quantities
(about 9%)        209     360      569    929    1,600   2,529    63
(ii)  Prices
(about 26%)       621   1,069   1,690  2,761    4,750   7,511    63
Subtotal D        830   1,429   2,259  3,690    6,350  10,040    63
TOTAL           3,117   5,551   8,668 13,855   24,670  38,525    64
(Rounded)                                    (13,800) (24.700)(38.500)



- 14 -
4.10      Costs for road construction are based on consultants' detailed
engineering estimates. Costs of equipment and technical assistance for the
maintenance program are based on studies by BCEOM. Estimates for consulting
services are based on average costs prevailing in West African countries.
Quantity contingencies have been allowed as a percentage of total cost for
each project item as follows:  5% on supervision of works and equipment
procurement; 10% on road construction, technical assistance, and the construc-
tion industry survey. Price variations have been determined as follows:
1976   1977    1978/79
Road construction /1                  16.5%  14.5%    13.5%
Services                              14%    12%       12%
Equipment                             10%     8%        8%
/1   A higher than average price increase has been assumed for
local costs to cover the expected effect of recent
substantial raises in wages and salaries.
C.   Execution
4.11      Execution of the project will be the responsibility of DPW, assist-
ed by consultants for technical assistance to implement the periodic mainte-
nance program, construction supervision, and the survey of the domestic
construction industry. The Government is planning to employ BCEOM for the
technical assistance because of the consultants' experience with local
conditions and problems acquired during its reorganization of routine main-
tenance operations in the country; the Association accepts this arrangement.
Consultants for other project items abovementioned will be selected in agree-
ment with, and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Project implementation is expected to start in early 1976, and to take four
years to complete.
Maintenance Program
4.12      Periodic maintenance will be carried out by force account with
equipment to be procured under the project; a list of equipment and cost
estimates is given in Table 10.  Four regravelling units will be formed in
two stages over a three-year period. These units will ultimately be able to
maintain annually about 320 km of gravel roads, a rate sufficient to keep the
network in satisfactory condition. The regravelling units will also improve
routine maintenance by stockpiling selected soil along the roads for use
in these operations. Equipment will be delivered in two lots corresponding to
the phased establishment ofthe regravelling units. Delivery schedules will be
determined by the technical assistance team on the basis of availability of
personnel to run the equipment, time requirements for training, and estimated
delivery dates proposed by bidders.
4.13      During the three years required for the abovementioned units to be
established and become fully functional, regravelling works will continue to



- 15 -
be executed by contractors with Government financing, but this practice will
be gradually phased out (see Table 11, item 4B). Over the period, however,
some of the works may provide suitable training for newly-established domestic
road contractors, especially those now involved only in building construction
who may be~ expected to diversify into road works.  The Government there-
fore, based on the findings and recommendations of the construction
industry survey to be implemented under the project, will examine with
the Association the possibility of having some participation-by domestic con-
tractors in the execution of regravelling works.
4.14      The reorganization of DPW activities to handle its new maintenance
tasks will require technical assistance aad training of specialized personnel
at all levels. BCEOM's highway maintenance study estimates that about 160
man-months of technical assistance will be needed. The proposed team will
include one highway engineer, three mechanical experts, two chiefs for the
regravelling units, and one expert in routine maintenance of paved roads;
each of the experts will be expected to train a local counterpart to take
over his duties before the end of his assignment. Since this training of
local staff is considered one of the most important objectives of the main-
tenance component of the proposed project, the Government has agreed that
qualified personnel will be appointed to serve as counterparts to the consul-
tant team according to the following schedule: (i) for the highway engineer
and two mechanics, not later than October 1, 1976; and (ii) for the other
consultant personnel, not later than October 1, 1977.
4.15      Training will be done essentially on-the-job, and will be comple-
mented by theoretical courses illustrated with didactic material. DPW en-
gineers, unit chiefs, workshop and field personnel will be trained partic-
ularly to carry out periodic maintenance of gravel roads, including repair and
maintenance of equipment; personnel in charge of routine maintenance will be
given additional training as required. The Government, with the assistance
of the consultants, will prepare a detailed program with quantitative targets
for implementation of the training as specified above, and will submit it
to the Association within four months of the date of effectiveness of the
proposed Credit, for review and approval. These arrangements, as well as
outline terms of reference for technical assistance and the training program,
have been discussed and agreed with the Government.
Road Construction
4.16      Detailed engineering and bidding documents for the road construc-
tion works have been prepared by consultant Louis Berger (US) under
Credit 231-NIR, and submitted to the Association for review and approval.
Construction works are expected to start in mid-1976, and to last about two
years for the Zinder-Nigerian border road (113.3 km), and about one year for
the Maradi-Nigerian border road (49 km).



-- 16 -
Procurement
4.17      Road construction works will be carried out under unit price
contract to be awarded following international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Group guidelines. At the Government's request,
domestic contractors will receive a preference in bid evaluation in accord-
ance with the above guidelines. Equipment will be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
However, for items or groups of items expected to cost the equivalent of
US$10,000 or less, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of US$300,000, procurement may be oln the basis of local bidding procedures
acceptable to the Association.
D.   Financing and Disbursements
4.18      Financing of the proposed project will be covered by the IDA
Credit of US$15.6 million, a BADEA loan of US$7 million, a loan from
ADF of US$3.6 million equivalent, and a Government contribution of about
US$2.5 million equivalent. ADF wilL finance 100% of the construction cost
(net of taxes) of about 28 km of the Zinder-Nigerian border road; financing
will be on a parallel basis, and under a single contract for the entire road.
The Association and BADEA will jointly finance 90% of the total cost of the
remainder of the road (85 km), and of all remaining project components.  The
proposed financing plan is shown in Table 12 and summarized below:
(in US$'000)
IDA    BADEA       ADF      Govt.      Total
Maintenance Program         4,230    1,895        --        680       6,805
Zinder-Nigerian
border road               6,590    2,965    3,600       1,060      14,215
Maradi-Nigerian
border road               4,745    2,120        --        770       7,635
Construction Industry
Survey                       35        20       --          5          60
Total               15,600    7,000    3,600       2,515      28,715
Percentage of
Total Project
Cost                54.3%     24.4%    12.5%        8.8%    100.0%



- 17 -
Details of the above arrangements have been agreed with the Government and the
co-financers.
4.19      The proposed IDA Credit of US$15.6 million will finance part of each
project component as a percentage of total expenditures, corresponding to joint-
financing with BADEA of 90% of total cost net of taxes. Details of the arrange-
ments are shown in Table 12. Credit proceeds will be disbursed on the following
basis:
(i) 51% of total expenditures for technical assistance and
training, and other consulting services;
(ii) 53% of total expenditures for equipment purchase; and
(iii)  44% of total expenditures for road construction.
Table 13 shows the estimated schedule of disbursements from the IDA Credit
Account.
4.20      In order to ensure that the interdependent aspects of the project
items are adequately taken into account by the co-lenders, the Association
will enter into understandings with BADEA and ADF, according to which they
would agree to coordinate their actions and to keep each other informed of
the status of project implementation.
4.21      In addition to its contribution to the capital costs of the project,
the Government has agreed to meet recurrent expenditures for the routine and
periodic road maintenance operations to be carried out. Preliminary estimates
of DPF road maintenance budgets for 1976-79 have been prepared on the basis of
expenditures determined in the BCEOM maintenance study; Table 11 shows these
estimates, in prices at mid-1974. The Government will use these estimates
as the basis for preparing its maintenance budgets (with appropriate adjust-
ments for price variations), and has agreed to review each proposed annual
budget, in consultation with the Association, before May 31 of each year.
4.22      The Government was planning to have consultants prepare the bidding
documents for equipment purchase prior to Board consideration of the proposed
project, and has requested that the Association consider retroactive financing
of expenditures incurred for this purpose. Early procurement of equipment
would reduce the expected inflationary cost increases, and allow a prompt
start on execution of the periodic maintenance program. The Association
has therefore approved the Government's request for retroactive financing
for an amount not exceeding US$40,000.



- 18 -
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The principal aims of the proposed project are to consolidate and
expand the efforts started under the Hlighway MIaintenance Project (Credit
128-NIR), as well as to improve major trunk roads in the south which support
agricultural development, and providie better transport connections for export/
import traffic flows via Nigeria. More specifically, the planned periodic
maintenance of gravel roads will ensure greater transport reliability during
the rainy season, thereby extending the seasonal use of this network, and also
reducing year-round transport costs.
5.02      Overall, the maintenance and construction works under the proposed
project are expected to result in reduced vehicle operating costs (Table 14),
and increased efficiency of the roa(d transport industry; these benefits will
accrue to the economy as a whole, and will be passed on to different segments
of the population in varying degrees. Reduced vehicle operating costs will
directly benefit the owners of private cars and commercial vehicles; since
transport prices in Niger are deterriined in a competitive framework, part of
this benefit should be passed on to producers and consumers. There would also
be Government savings in future roacl rehabilitation costs.
5.03      The economic analysis shows the proposed four-year road maintenance
and construction program to be well justified. The best estimate of economic
return for the maintenance program is about 28%; for construction of the
Zinder-Nigerian border road, about 13%; and for construction of the Maradi-
Nigerian border road, about 16% (Table 15). The weighted average return for
the project is estimated to be over 17%. Details of the economic analysis are
given in the Annex.
B.   Four-Year Maintenance Program
5.04      Since elimination of the heavy maintenance backlog as discussed
in para. 3.16, periodic maintenance operations have not been performed systema-
tically because DPW has neither the trained personnel nor the equipment re-
quired.  The works were threfore carried out mostly by contract, and the annulal
output was about 150 km; this was substantially lower than considered necessary,
as proven by consultants who calculated that about 320 km of annual periodic
maintenance are required to maintairt the network at normal standards, and to
avoid the build-up of a backlog of deferred maintenace. Execution of the
proposed maintenance program is expected to ensure that the country's develop-
ment is not hampered by inadequate transport infrastructure, and to produce
long-term benefits arising from strengthening the organization and training of
a permanent body to expand its operations to include periodic maintenance.
The program is expected to lead to the following direct benefits: (i) reduc-
tion in vehicle operating costs; (ii) reduction of the per kilometer cost of



- 19 -
regravelling operations; and (iii) increase in seasonal use of roads which
play a vital role in the country's econounic development. The first two groups
of benefits were quantified. The economic analysis evaluated two alter-
natives -- with and without the proposed project. A comparison was made
between investment outlays, incremental recurrent maintenance expenditures,
and vehicle operating costs when the program is implemented, and the alter-
native of perpetuating the present situation, which would lead to gradual
deterioration of the network. Based on projected traffic, the analysis
determined the level of resources and the extent of the network which was
economically justified for inclusion in the proposed periodic maintenance
program.
5.05      Once the program is fully operational, it will cover about 2,300 km
of gravel roads and about 600 km of selected earth roads, located primarily
in the south. Traffic levels on these roads are generally low. About 1,250 km
carry traffic volumes ranging between 80-400 passenger-car units (pcu) 1/
per day; about 1,400 km carry traffic of 30-80 pcu; and the remaining 250 km
of the network has daily traffic of less than 30 pcu. The structure of traf-
fic, according to 1974 data, was about 45% heavy trucks (mostly 8-12 t) and
the remainder light vehicles (passenger cars and pick-ups). Traffic growth
on the most heavily travelled gravel and earth roads is estimated at 7% p.a.
over the seven-year economic life of the project (para. 3.03).
5.06      As regards actual execution of the program, maintenance units are
expected to be in place at end-1978, and full benefits of the operation are
expected to accrue in 1980 (about 95% in 1979, the last year of the proposed
project).  Implementation of the planned maintenance is expected to produce
a combined average reduction of about 25% in vehicle operating costs.
5.07      Costs for this project item consist of outlays for investments and
technical assistance, as well as incremental expenditures for recurrent main-
tenance; the stream of costs and benefits of the program is shown in the
Annex. The estimated economic life of the project reflects the weighted aver-
age economic life of the interdependent elements which comprise the program. 2/
Assuming a 7% annual traffic growth, the economic return of the maintenance
item exceeds 27%, with a benefit/cost ratio of 1.63 discounted by 10%. This
estimated return relies on a number of inputs which have been quantified with
varying degrees of certainty. An analysis of the sensitivity of the return to
alternative assumptions regarding increased project costs of 15% shows a drop
to about 22%; assuming a decrease in benefits of 15%, the return drops to
about 21%. The analysis also shows that with a combination of unfavorable
assumptions (a 15% increase in costs and a 15% decrease in benefits), the rate
of return would still exceed 16% (Table 15).
1/   For the purpose of this analysis, all traffic data were converted into
pcu: 1 light vehicle = 1 pcu; 1 truck = 3 pcu.
2/   Various types of equipment, institution-building by the training program,
and the regravelling cycle.



- 20 -
C.   Construction of the Zinder-Nigerian Border Road (113 km)
5.08      This road crosses an important and well-populated agricultural area,
linking Zinder, the third largest city, and Magaria, an economic and admin-
istrative center, with the main east-west trunk route. The road zone is one
of thc most agriculturally productive regions in the country, with output in
a normal year totalling about 250,000) tons, mainly millet, sorghum, and ground-
nuts. Plans exist to increase productivity over an extensive area, and in
particular, FED is presently implemeniting a three-year project (1973-76), at
a cost of about CFAF 520 million, colering about 1,500 ha; a second phase of
this project is expected to be implemented over 1977-81.
5.09      In 1973, about 85,000 tons of trade traffic with Nigeria (mainly
fuel and groundnuts) originated from the zone Zinder-Bande-Magaria. About 60%
of the long-distance traffic take the north detour route (via Takieta and
Matameye), while most of the groundnuts are transported from the northern area to
the oil mill at Magaria. To reach Kunyia (Nigeria), the external trade commod-
ities presently use a long detour road via Zinder and Takieta, or via Zango
and Daura, a distance of about 260 kn and 190 respectively (see Map 11523).
With the proposed construction, this route would be shortened to about 209 km
and 115 km respectively, and the road would become the most important outlet
to Nigeria for the southeastern regions. In 1974, traffic levels on different
sections of the road ranged between 100-120 vpd, of which about 40% trucks.
In the first ten years of the road's economic life, average traffic growth is
estimated at about 6% p.a., tapering off thereafter at about 5.5%.
5.10      The direct benefits of the proposed road construction will derive
from distance savings of the two detour routes abovementioned, reduced vehicle
operating costs, and savings in maintenance costs. In addition to the benefits
from diverted and local traffic, the analysis also includes generated traffic,
but only of light vehicles. Though estimated differently for different road
sections, this averages about 15% of the normal traffic of light vehicles.
Based on the above benefits alone, the estimated economic return over an
assumed 20-year life of the project is 13%. A sensitivity analysis carried
out using a combination of unfavorable assumptions shows that the return still
remains over 10%. However, there will also be other benefits, such as those
from time savings, and from possible cost savings resulting from fewer acci-
dents.
D.   Construction of 'Maradi-Nigerian Border Road (49 km)
5.11      The city of Maradi (population about 40,000) is the second largest
in the country, and a center of one c,f the most productive agricultural re-
gions. In a normal year, agricultural production in the road zone amounts
to about 90,000 tons, mostly millet, sorghum, and groundnuts. The road is
the shortest link from the main east-west highway to routes in Nigeria, and
is an important outlet for exports (mainly groundnuts) and imports (mainly
fuel). In 1973, about 92,000 tons of export/import traffic were transported



- 21 -
on this route. The Association has recently appraised an agricultural project
covering about 400,000 ha in the road zone. The principal aim of the project
is to increase the production of cereals and groundnuts, which would benefit
over 50,000 families. Project implementation is expected to start during
1976.
5.12      In 1974, average daily traffic on the major section, Maradi-Dan-
Issa (40 km), was estimated at a relatively high 280 vpd, of which about 20%
trucks; the 9 km section nearer the border carried about 220 vpd. Average
traffic growth is estimated at about 6.5% p.a. over the first ten years of
the road's expected economic life, and at 5.5% p.a. thereafter. Benefits
applied in the analysis have been quantified and expressed in road user
savings and savings in future maintenance costs. Since the road has been
serving as a major trunk route in the area, no generated traffic has been
assumed following reconstruction. Assuming a 20-year economic life, the
proposed works are expected to yield an economic return of about 16%.
Applying unfavorable assumptions in the sensitivity test, the economic return
is estimated at 13% (Table 15).
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations on the proposed Credit, the following principal
items were discussed and agreed with the Government:
C!)  details of arrangements for reviewing and updating the
replacement plan for DPW management personnel, making an
annual assessment of progress in plan implementation, and
preparing and carrying out an appropriate training program
for such personnel (para. 3.08);
(ii)  schedule for appointment of qualified local personnel to serve as
counterparts to the maintenance consultants (para. 4.14);
(iii)  arrangements for preparation of a detailed program for training
or personnel required to implement the maintenance component of
the project; this program is to be submitted to the Association for
review and approval within four months of the date of effectiveness
of the proposed Credit (para. 4.15);
(iv)  details of proposed arrangements for financing of the project
(paras. 4.18 and 4.19);



22 -
(v)  in addition to its contribution to the capital costs of the project,
the Government will also meet recurrent expenditures for the routine
and periodic maintenance operations to be carried out; in this
regard, it will examine each proposed annual budget, in consultation
with the Association, be:.ore May 31 of each year of project imple-
mentation (para. 4.21).
6.o2      In order to ensure that :he interdependent aspects of the project
items are adequately taken into account by the co-lenders, the Association
will enter into understandings with BADEA and ADF, according to which they
would agree to coordinate their actions and to keep each other informed of the
status of project implementation (para. 4.20).
6.03      The proposed project is suitable for a Credit of US$15.6 million to
the Government of the Republic of N4iger on standard IDA terms.
Fe;bru.ary 3) 1976



N I G E R
THIRD HIGIHAY PROJECT
1968       1262        1970        1971        1972         12973       1974
A. Classified Network"/
Paved Roads                  400        488         488          605         683         933        1,313
Gravel Roads               2,836      2,875       2,979        2,930       2,908       2,637        2,550
Earth Roads                1,148      1,051         996          996         996       1,186          662
Tracks                     2.341      2.333       2.481        2.586       2,564       2.715        2.418
Total    TOTAL             6,725      6,747       6,9944       7,117       7,151       7,471        6,943
B, Unclassified Network
Tracks                                ------ 3,000 to 4,000 --------
1/ Road network under responsibility of DPW
Source: Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Urban. Affairs.
December 1974



TABLE 2
N I a B 11
THID HIGHWAY PROJECT
Freight Transport Volumes
A. Estimates of Public Road Transport in 1972/73
1. Number of public transporters:213 (of which in Niamey 104)
2. Capacity of Road Transport Fleet
(a) number of registered vehicles: 860 units (of which SNTN owns
260 unilts )
(b) loading capacitr 6,560 tons
3. Estimates of tonnages transported:
Total: 750,000 - 800,000 tons
Volume of Excprts: about 215,000 tons
Volume of Imports mbout 420,000 tons
B. Air Freight Transport 196_297
(in tons)
1969       1970        1971           1972         1M2I
Niamey               4,014      3,947      4,261          4,783         6,574
Agadez                  73         66         87            105           124
Zinder                  99         84         95            104            84
Maradi                  77         58         48             44            40
TOTAL          4,263      4,155      4,49            5,036         6,822
Growth rate:  12.5% p.a.
Source: Ministry of Development, Directorate of Transport,
and mission estimates,, November 1974.
February 1975.



NIGER
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Invest_ents in Transport Sector 1970-1974
(in CFAF millions)
1970               1971               L972                jZ71               1974               TOTAL
A        B         A        B         A         B        A         B         A         B        A          B
Government (FNI)      134.0    27.0      177.0      -        130.0    48.o      114.0   48.7       172.0    50.0*       727.0     173.7
Foreign             1,161.2   J88v    1,081.9   132.    1,957.8    71j5   2,927.9   306.1   3,380.0*   n.a.   10,508.8             898.6
TOTAL         1,295.2   415.5   1,258.9   132,5   2,087.8   119.5   3,041.9   354.8   3,552.0    50.0   11,235.8   1,072.3
(US$ equivalent)
$50 million
FNI - National Investment Fund.
(A)   Investments in road infrastructure.
(B)   Investments in air transport infrastructure.
(*)   Estimated.
Source:  Ministry of Development and Cooperation, mission estimates.
November 1974



NIGER
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Growth of the Vehicle Fleet, 1969-73='
(units)
Average Annual
Percentage      Rate of Growth
of Total        over Period
1969      1970       1971      1972    1973       in 1973          1969-1973
Passenger cars                  4,742      5,577     6,267      7,012   7,756        45.7%             13.0%
Pick-ups                        3,744      3,975     4,481      4,897   5,382        31.7%              9.5%
Trucks
- less than 5 t                 386        415       449
- more than 5 t               1,425      1,550     1,624
1,811     1,965      2,073     2,241   2,456        14.5%               7.9%
Trailer Assemblies
- trailers (20 to 25 t)         370        417       438        476     535         3.1%              9.7%
- tractors                      351        420       457        506     590         3.5%             13.9%
Buses                             107        140       167        200      249        1.5X             23.5X
TOTAL              11,125    12 494    13,883    15.332  16,968         100.0%             11.1%
1/ Figures at the end of the year.
Source: Directorate of Transport
March 1975. t



NIGER
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Consumption of Petroleum Products 1968-73
(in m---)
Aircraft                    Automobiles
Jet           Prop.       Gasoline        Diesel Oil        Kerosene
1968           9,500          2,296         18,190           15,063            4,057
1969          11,051          3,057         19,031           16,303            3,669
1970          11,986          2,807         19,,469          18,086           8,222
1971          11,038          2,315         21,212           16,979            2,886
1972          10,169          2,913         22,860           21,654            2,950
1973          15,151          4.,o59        25,690           25,434            3j,423
Average annual growth rate:  7.1%            11.0%
Source: Directorate of Transport, December 1974.
March 1975.



NIGER
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Expenditures 1970-1974
(CFAF million)
1970      1971        1972      1973          1974        TOTAL
A. Government
1. National Budget
(i)  Administration                     192        155        122        120       134            723
(ii)  Routine Maintenance                304        515        545        580       615          2,559
Subtotal A. 1.                     496        670        667        700       749          3,282
2. FNI"
(i)  Betterment Works                    63        158        130        114       172            637
(ii)  Periodic Maintenance               126        163        199        238       193            919
(iii)  Equipment                           71         19        ---        ---       ---             -90
Subtotal A. 2.                     260        340        329        352       365          1,646
Subtotal A.                        756      1,010        996      1,052    1,114           4,928
US$ Million Equivalent             2.7        3.9        4.0        4.4       4.8           19.8
B.      ~~2/
B. Foreign-/
1. FAC                                        372        136         87       535       6002/         1,730
2. FED                                        272        591       840      1,754    2,5003/          5,957
3. USAID                                      240         20          4          5        203/          289
4. IDA                                        277        290     1,027         634       260          2,488
5. CEA                                        ---         10        ---        ---       ---             10
6. Other                                      ---         35        ---        ---       ---             35
Subtotal B.                      1,161      1,082      1,958     2,928    3,380           10,509
US$ Million Equivalent             4.2        4.2        7.8       12.2      14.7           43.1
TOTAL A. + B.              1,917      2,092      2,954      3,980    4,494          15,437
US$ Million Equivalent       6.9        8.1       11.8       16.6      19.5            62.9
1/  National Investment Fund.
2/  Does not include "Unity Road" (Goure-N'Guigmi, 421 km) financed by Canadian aid (CIDA).
3/ Estimated.
SOURCE: Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Urban Affairs; mission estimates.
March 1975.



N I G E R
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimates of Government Revenue from Road Users 1970-1974
(CFAF millions)
Taxes levied on Fuels                                    Other Taxes
On Imports of                         Vehicle
A         B                Vehic_les  Spareparts   Licensing    Registration         Total
1970      448.1      167.8               4z8.o        72.6          20.6           25.3          1,162.4
1971      429.9      15o.8               516.4        92.4          21.0           24.9          1,235.4
1972      461.3      182.0              *4?4.7        93.9          27.2           23.4         1,212.5
1973      512.8      214.8               649.9       160.8          34.8           51.8          1,624.9
1974      556.O      210.8               744.02/    196.ci /        35. i /        58.4         1,800.21/
TOTAL   2,.408.1     926.2             2,763.0       615.7        138.6          183.8          7035-.4
I/Estimated
(A)  Revenues directed to general budget.  Taxes:  on gasoline OFAF 16/L; on diesel fuel CFAF 64f;
on kerosene CFAF 84L.
(B)  Revenues directed to National Investnent Fund.
Revenues based on surtaxes: on gasoline CFAF 6/L; on diesel fuel CFAF 4/L.
Source: Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Urban Affairs, Ministry of Developnent
and mission estimates. December 1974.
M
March 1975.                                                                                                 -



TABLE 8
NIGER
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards for the
Zinder-Nigerian Border and Maradi-Djibiya Roads
Design Speed                                         100 km/h
Maximum Grade:  normal                                 5%
exceptional                           7%
Minimum Radius of               normal               665 m
Horizontal Curvature:           exceptional          425 m
Pavement Width:  Zinder.-Nigerian Border               6 m
Maradi-Djibiya                       7 m
Shoulder Width:  Zinder--Nigerian Border               1.00 m
Maradi--Djibiya                      1Q50 m
Design Axle Load for pavement                         13 t
Source:  MPWT and consultants Louis Berger, December 1974.
May 1975.



TABLE 9
NIGER
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
--CFAF Million ---------              -----------US$'000----------          Foreign as
Local       Foreign       Total       Local       Foreign       Total       7. of Total
A. Maintenance Program
(i) Technical Assistance and
Training                           133.9        276.7        410.6        595        1,230        1,825           67
(ii)  Equipment                          255.4        784.1      1,039.5      1.135        3.485        4.620            75
Subtotal A                   389.3      1,060.8      1,450.1      1,730        4,715         6,445           73
B. Construction
(i)  Zinder-Nigerian border
road (113 km)
a.  Construction                1,126.1      1,794.4       2,920.5      5,005        7,975       12,980           61
b.  Supervision                     81.0        150.7        231.7        360          670        1.030           65
Subtotal B (i)             1,207.1      1,945.1      3,152.2      5,365        8,645        14,010           62
(ii)  Maradi-Nigerian border
road (49 km)
a.  Construction                  640.1       1,020.4      1,660.5      2,845        4,535        7,380           61
b.  Supervision                     46.1         86.6        132.7        205          385          590           65
Subtotal B (ii)              686.2      1,107.0      1,793.2      3,050        4,920         7,970           62
C.  Survey of Construction Industry              4.5          9.0         13.5         20           40           60           66
Subtotal A-C               2,287.1      4,121.9      6,409.0    10,165        18,320        28,485           64
D. Contingencies
(i)  Quantity variation
a.  10% on A. (i)                   13.5         27.7         41.2         60          123          183           67
b.  5% on A. (ii)                   12.8         39.2         52.0         57          174          231            75
c.  10% on B. (i) a.               112.1        178.4        290.5        498          793        1,291            61
d.  5% on B. (i) b.                  4.0          7.7         11.7         18           34           52            65
e.  10% on B. (ii) a.               63.9        102.1        166.0        284          454          738            61
f.  5% on B. (ii) b.                 2.2          4.3          6.5         10           19           29           65
g.  10% on C.                        0.5          0.6          1.1          2            3             5           66
Subtotal (i)                 209.0        360.0        569.0         929        1,600        2,529           63
(ii)  Price escalation
a.  on A. (i)                       36.7         77.2        113.9        163          343          506            68
b.  on A. (ii)                      40.0        116.8        156.8        178          519          697            74
c.  on B. (i) a.                   360.0        573.5        933.5      1,600        2,549        4,149            61
d.  on B. (i) b.                    20.7         38.5         59.2         92          171          263            65
e.  on B. (ii) a.                  154.3        245.5        399.8        686        1,091        1,777            61
f.  on B. (ii) b.                    9.0         16.6         25.6         40           74          114            65
g.  on C.                            0.5          0.7          1.2          2            3             5           60
Subtotal (ii)                621.2      1,068.8      1,690.0      2,761        4,750         7,511           63
Subtotal D.                  830.2      1,428.8      2,259.0      3,690         6,350       10,040           63
TOTAL                      3,117.3      5,550.7      8,668.0    13.855        24,670        38,525           64
Source:  DPW, consultants and mission estimates.  Basic costs as expected at time of negotiations:  end-1975.
January 1976



TABLE 10
NIGER
rHIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Description aad cost of Equipment to be Procured
(US$S 000)
Unit      Total          Total Cost Breakdown
No.      Cost        Coat          Local         Foreign
I. FIRST LOT
A. Equipment for Two Regravelling Units
1.  Bulldozers (160/180 hp)                            2      149.0       298.0           77.2           220.8
2.  Front loaders (100/120 hp)                         2       67.2       134.4           35.2            99.2
3.  Motor graders (120/130 hp)                         2       84.8       169.6           41.9           127.7
4.  Dump trucks (6/7 m3)                              16       35.3       565.0           88.3           476.7
5.  Water Tanker (10,000 1)                            2       52.9       105.8           36.3            69.5
6.  Rubber-tired compactor (20/22 t)                   2       60.3       120.6           28.6            92.0
7.  Towed campers                                      2       23.5        47.0           11.0            36.0
8.  Fuel tanker trucks with service trailers           2      106.3       212.6           66.1           146.5
9.  Service vehicles                                   2       10.4        20.4            6.6            13.8
10.  Repair tool sets                                   2       17.8        34.8           19.8            15.0
11.  Two-way radios                                     2         7.8       15.6            4.4            11.2
Subtotal A                                                    1,723.8           415.4        1,308.4
B. Equipment in Pool
1.  Water Tanker (10,000 1)                            2       52.9       105.8           36.3            69.5
2.  Towed water pump (80 m31h)                         1       15.0        15.0            4.4            10.6
3.  Low-bed trailer (20 t)                             1        78.7       78.7           14.3            64.4
Subtotal B                                                       199.5           55.0           144.5
Subtotal A-B                                                  1,923.3           470.4         1,452.9
C. Reserve Items
1.  Bulldozer (160/180 hp)                             1       149.0      149.0           38.6           110.4
2.  Front loaders (100/120 hp)                         2        67.2      134.4           35.2            99.2
3.  Rubber-tired compactor (20/22 t)                   1        60.3       60.3           14.3            46.0
Subtotal C                                                       343.7           88.1           255.6
Subtotal A-C                                                   2,267.0          558.5         1,708.5
D.  Spare Parts (10%)                                                           226.7           55.8           170.9
Subtotal 1                                                     2,493.7          614.3         1,879.4
II. SECOND LOT
A. Equipment for Two Regravelling Units
Cost as per I. A                                                         1,723.8          415.4         1,308.4
B. Equipment in Pool
Cost as per I. B                                                           199.5           55.0           144.5
Subtotal A-B                                                   1,923.3          470.4         1,452.9
C.  Spare Parts (10%)                                                           192.3           47.0           145.3
Subtotal II                                                    2,115.6          517.4         1,598.2
TOTAL I   II                                                                 4,609.3        1,131.7          3,477.6
GRAND TOTAL (Rounded)                                                         4,600          1,100           3,500
TOTAL          LOCAL          FOREIGN
Percent of Total                                                 100             24.6            75.4
25              75
Source: BCEOM, Mission estimates. Costs as exr,ected at end-1975-
September 1975



NIGER                                       TABLE 11
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
ESTIMATED 1976-1979 BUDGETS#
FOR HIGHWAY MAINTNANCE*
(1974-1975 Budgets shown for Reference)
(CFAF Million - Constant Prices, Mid-1974)
1974       1975             1976         1977          1978         1979
1,  PERSONNEL                              73.0        72.0              91.8-/       96.3         101.2        106.2
2. DIVISIONS OPERATION                     61.0        62.0               79.32/      79.3          79.3         79.3
3/
3,  ROUTINE MAINTENANCE-
A.  Paved two-lane roads               n.a.        n.a.              97.2        121.4         145.7        169.9
B.  Paved one-lane roads               n.a.        n.a.             101.2         98.8          96.5         94.1
C.  Gravel roads                       n.a.        n.a.             441.8        425.7         409.5        393.4
D.  Earth roads                        n.a.        n.a.              53.5         52.5          51.4         50.4
Subtotal 3                        615.0        626.5            693.7        698.4         703.1        707.8
4. PERIODIC MAINTENANCE
A.  Paved roads                        ---         ---               ---          --- 5/       116.07/      116.0
4     -213.4-       -109.6-
B.  Gravel and earth roads             n.a.        n.a.             306.0-/    -13.1 -4239.88-              342.6
C.  Incremental Equipment                                                            9g             10       6
Division expenditures              ---         ---              ...           20.3-         43.0-        61.4
D.  Incremental Subdivision                                                            91/
expenditures                                   ---              ---            2.6-          5.6-        8.0
1/ 11/          12/
Subtotal 4                        193.0-=   235.0-11/           306.0        349.4         514.0        528.0
TOTAL 1-4                    942.0      995.5           1.170.8      1 223 4       1 397 6      1,421,3
5.  LOCAL COSTS AND TAXES ON
EQUIPMBNT                                                            52.8         93.7          40.5
6.  TAXES ON TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
A.  Contract registration                                            16.8         ---           ---          ---
B.  Turn-over tax                                                     9.3         14.5          11.5          5.9
C.  Import duties                                                     3.4          3.1           0.8          0.4
Subtotal 6                                                       29.5         17.6          12.3          6.3
7. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - LOCAL
COSTS                                                                 1.0          1.7           1.4          0.8
Subtotal 5-7                                                         83.3        113.0          54.2          7.1
GRAND TOTAL                                              1.254.1      .336.4       1,461428.4
*   Betterment works not included                                         7/  Regravelling 60.9 km by contract.
1/  Salaries increased by 14% in May 1974.  Additional                    8/  Units output 70% of total - 224.7 km.
5% annual increase for promotions.                                   9/  33% of total (year 1979).
2/  Fuel cost increased by 30% in mid-1974                               10/  70% of total (year 1979).
3/  Linear interpolation between 1974 and 1979 road networks.            11/  Includes some new works.
4j/  Regravelling 170 km by contract.                                    12/  CFAF 200 million to be allocated from
5/  Regravelling 118.5 km by contract,                                        reserve funds.
6/  Units output 33% of total = 105.9 km.
n.a. - not available.
#Prepared in accordance with local budget regulations.
Source: DPW, consultant and mission estimates
October 1975



NIGER
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Financing Plan
(in US$'OOO)
COSTS                                                                           FINANCING
---------Local---- -----    Foreign    Total               IDA                A MDEA     (*)       ADF                --------Government-----------
Taxes    Other    Total                                                                                               Taxes    Other       Total       (*
A. Naintenance Program
(i)  Technical as9sitance and
training program                  330        265       595       1,230     1,825            930      51%         415      23%       ---                  330       150        480       26%
(ii)  Equipment                          650       485      1,135       3,485    4,620           2,465      53%      1,110      24%        ---                  650       395      1,045      23%
B. Construction
(i)  Zinder-Nigerian border
road (113.3 km)
(a)  PK (0.000-28.000)          1,030        345    1,375        2,190     3,565           ---                  ---                2,535     71%      1,030       ---       1,030       29%
(b)  PK (28.000-113.300)        2,725        905    3,630        5,785     9,415          4,155      44%      1,865       20%       ---                2,725      670       3,395       36%
(ii)  Supervision of (i)                 185       175        360         670    1,030             525      51%        235       23%       ---                  185        85        270      26%
ri  -)    -rd   'icr/.bri-e
road (49 km)                    2,135        710    2,845        4,535      7,380         3,260      44%       1,460      20%       ---                2,135       525      2,660       36%
(iv)  Supervision of (iii)               105        100       205         385       590            300      51%        135       23%       ---                  105        50        155       26%
C.  Survey of Construction Industry             10        10         20          40        60             30      51%          15     23%        ---                   10         5          15     26%
Subtotal A-C                     7,170     2,995   10,165       18,320   28,485          11,665                5,235               2,535               7,170     1,880       9,050
D.  Contingencies
- A (i)                                    120        95       215         460        675           345                  155                ---                  120        55         175
- A (ii)                                  130        100       230         685        915           490                  215                ---                  130        80         210
- B (i) (a)                               435        145       580          920    1,500           ---                  ---                1,065                 435      ---          435
- B (i) (b)                             1,150        380    1,530        2,440     3,970          1,750                  790                ---                1,150       280       1,430
- B (ii)                                    55        55       110         205        315            160                  75                 ---                  55         25         80
- B (iii)                                  725       245       970       1,545     2,515          1,115                  495                 ---                 725        180        905
- B (iv)                                    25        25        50           90       140             70                  30                 ---                  25         15         40
-C                                        ---          5         5            5        10              5                   5                 ---                ---
Subtotal D                       2,640     1,050    3,690        6,350   10,040            3,935               1,765                1,065              2,640        635      3,275
TOTAL                            9,810    4,045    13,855       24,670   38,525           15,600   (40.5%)   7,000    (18.2%)   3,600  (9.3%)    9,810    2,515             12,325      (32%)
(*)  Percentage of te'tal expenditures
Source:  DPW, consl- tants, mission estimates.
January 1976



TABLE 13
NIGER
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$'000)
IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year                       Cumulative Disbursement
and Semester Ending                          at End of Semester
1976
June 1976                                       ---
1977
December 1976                                  3,300
June 1977                                      6,500
1978
December 1977                                  9,300
June 1978                                     11,600
1979
December 1978                                13,350
June 1979                                     14,750
1980
December 1979                                 15,150
June 1980                                    15,600
Source: mission estimates.
January 1976



TABLE 14
NIGER
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimates of' Vehicle Operating Costsl"
(CFAF/km net of taxes)
Vehicle Type              Paved Road    Gravel Road   Earth Road    Track
Passenger Cars               19.8           27.5          34.6        47.2
Pick-ups                     29.8           41.9          51.8        66.4
Trucks (7-8 t)               47.7           60.9          74.o        94.2
Trucks (12 t)                57.3           70.8          86.9       109.6
Trailers (22-24 t)           98.7          124.2         155.0       198.8
1/ In 1iarch 1974 prices.
Source: BCEON highway maintenance study.
March 1975.



TABLE 15
NIGER
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Economic Returns of Project Components
AL. Four-Year Maintenance Program
Sensitivity Analysis
Best       Costs          Costs         Benefits       Costs increase 1 5
Estimate   increase 10%  increase 15%  decrease 15%  Benefits decrease
1 %
Economic
Return               27.7%         24.0%          22.3%         21.51           16.4%
Benefit/Cost
Ratio
discounted at 10%     1.63          1.49           1.42          1.39            1.19
B. Road Construction Works
1.  Zinder-
Nigerian
border
(113 km)         13.0%         11.8%         11.3%          11.0%           10.6AL
2.  Maradi-
Nigerian
border
(49 km)          15.8%         14.4%         13.8%          13.5%           13.0,
j   Costs increase 10%; benefits decrease 10%.
Source: Mission estimates.
April 1975.



ANNEX
Page 1
NIGER
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Details of Economic Analysis
A. Four-Year Maintenance Program
Duration of the Program: 1976-79
Economic Life:  7 years
Total Economic Cost (at market prices):
- Investments:      CFAF million 821.3
- Incremental recurrent
expenditures:    CFAF million 461.9
Traffic Growth:  7% p.a.
Benefitsi/:
197b                   =  0%
1977                   = 33%
1978                   = 70%
1979                   = 95%
1980 (and thereafter) = 100%
1/ Percent of benefits of f'irst full year of operation (1980)
Traffic Structure on the Network in 1974
-in
Passenger cars                             26.4
Pick -ups                                  2 l r
Trucks (7-8 t)                             i6.6
Tracks (12 t)
Trailers (22 t)                            14.3
.10 JO..



ANNEX
Page 2
Vehicle Operating Costs
For the Average Vehicle
( WAF/Iaa)
Gravel Road        Earth Road        Track
(8m rwide)        (-r wide)
1.  Road in good condition               57.13              70.68          91.02
2. Road in poor condition                76.42              93.96         121.45
1/ Weighted average of the five major vehicle types listed in preceding table.
Economic Evaluation of the Four-Year Program
(CFAF millon) 27/
Incremental
Recurrent                       Benefits
Investment and         Maintenance       Total     Road User    Net
Year        Technical Assistance    ExPenditures     Costs      Savings      Benefits
1976              228.9                   0          228.9         0         - 228.9
1977              229.2                 21.7         250.9       63.3        - 187.6
1978              241.5                 46.o         287.5      134.2        - 153.3
1979              121.7                 65.7         187.4      183.1        -  4.3
1980               0                    65.7          65.7      301.5        + 235.8
1981                0                   65.7          65.7      411.1        + 345J4
1982               0                    65.7          65.7      501.1        + 435.4
1983               0                    65.7          65.7      591.1        + 525.4
1984                0                   65.7          65.7      681.1        + 615.4
Economic Return   : 27.7%
Benefit/Cost Ratio:  1.63  discounted by 10%
2/ All costs and benefits are net of taxes and expressed in first quarter 1974 prices.



ANNEX
Page 3
B.   ROAD CONSTRUCTION
I.  Zinder-Nigerian Border Road (11 3 km)
Total Economic Cost (at market prices)        CFAF million 1 ,68.1.8
First-Year Return (1 978) = 11 .5%
Economic Life = 20 years
II.  Maradi-li erian Border Road (49 km)
Total Economic Cost (at market prices)  =  CFAF million 945.19
first-Year Return (1 977)       11 .4%
Economic Life  =  20 years



Average Daily Traffic in 1974 and Traffic Forecast
(vpd)
Zinder-Nigerian Border Road
Annual Traffic Growth
Type of Vehicle             1974       1978        1986         1997              - Z    78-86
Zinder-Dogo (33 kn)
Cars and Pick-ups            83         93          153          273             6.5      6.5       5.5
Trucks                       22         28           45           79             6.25     6.o       5.25
Heavy Trucks                 1 4        22           35           62            11.0      6.0      -L.
Total                       o09        143           233         414             7.0       6.25     5.5
Dogo Bande (39.5 km)
Cars and Pick-ups            65         83          136          243             6.5      6.5       5.5
Trucks                       19         24           37           64             6.0       5.5      5.0
Heavy Trucks                 15         23           36           64            10.0        5.75       -
Total                        99        130          209          371             7.0      6.0       5.5
Bande-Magaria (21 .5 kmn)
Cars and Pick-ups            77         98          160          285             6.o       6.25     5.5
Trucks                       21         26           41           71             5.5       5.5      5.0
Heavr Trucks                 1,         25           39           68            10.0      5.75      5-0
Total                       115        149          240          424             6.75     6.0       5.25
Magaria-Tinkim (13.5 kmi)
Cars and Pick-ups            60         77          127          229             6.5      7.0       5.5
Trucks                      4s1         50           79          133             5.0       6.0      4.75
Heavy Trucks                 21         31           47            _            10.0      i         5.0
Total                       1 22       158          253         1411?            6. 75    6.0       5. 25
Tinkim-N. Border (5.5 km)
LFrdK3 Ai -ck-wl                                     5 2'  34  59  113           7.0      7.0       6.o
Trucks                        9         12           1 9          '3             7. 5      6.0      5.0
Bwvy  . c s                ,_         lt_7         47                         w.v -      5-5      5. 0
Tot-al                       56         77          1            22?,            8-0      6.25      5.5



Average Daily Traffic in 1974 and Traffic Forecast
(vpd)
Maradi-Nigerian Border road
Annual Traffic Growth (in %)
Type of Vehicle                 1974     1977     1986      1996                 74-77     77-ti6     87-96
Maradi-Dan Issa (40 km)
Cars and pick-ups                224      271       478      816                   6.5      6.5        5.5
Trucks                            31       35       56        87                   4.0      5.5        4.5
Heavy Trucks                      21       22        35       55                   1.5      5.5        4.5
Total                     276      328      569       958                   5.9      6.5        5.5
Dan issa-Nigerian Border (9 lea)
Cars and pick-ups                173      209      368       628                   6.5      6.5        5.5
Trucks                            29       33        52       82                   4.4      5.0        4.5
Heavy Trucks                      18       19        31       49                   1.8      5.5        4.5
220      261      451       759                   5.7      6.5        5.5
!I|



ANNEX
Economic Evaluation of Zinder-Nigerian Border Road
Road Constraction
(CFAF Million)
Benefits
Savings in Vehicle 0,O^ratinf, Costs    Savings in
Construction      Local        Deviated    Generated     Maintenance
Year     Cost         /    Traffic      Traffic      Traffic         Cost             Total
1976        834.39             0            0            0               0              0
1 977       83L. 39            0            0            0               0              0
1978          0              49.36        88.00         7.72          47.09          192.17
1979          0              52.26        92.96         8.13          47.90          201 .25
1980          0              55.33        98.21         8.57          4B.78          210.89
1 981         0              58.58       103.78         9.03          49.73          221.1 2
1982          0              62.02       109.68         9.52          50.76          231.98
1983          0              65.66       115.95         10.03         61.93          253.57
1984          0              69.51       122.59         10.,)       _ 48.99          153.68
1985          0              73.59       129.64         11.11         17.  2/        166.62
1986          0              77.75       137.29         11.77         65.75          292.56
1 987         0              81.64       144.67         1 2.53        67.10          35.04
1 988         0              85.72       1 52.48        13.3i4        81 .2C         332.82
1989          0              90.01       16O.74         14.21         82.82          347.76
1990          0              94.51       169.50         15.13        8U.46           363.60
1 991         0              99.24       178.78         16.11          86.20         380.33
1992          0             104.20       188.62         17.16        - 23.47 2       286.51
1993          0             109.41       199.04         1 8.27       -  7.98         318.74
1994          0             114.88        210.10        19.46        105.66          450.10
1995          0             120.62       221.82         20.72        107.91          471.07
1996          0             126.65       234.26         22.07        110.31          493.29
1997          0             133.33       247.44         23.44         11 2.88        517.09
Economic Return: 13,0y
I/Cost and Benefits computed net of taxes in third quarter of 1 974. pries.
?JCost includes provision for supervision of works.
a/Savings are negative due to road surface resealing.



ANNEX
Page 7
Economic Evaluation of liaradi-Nigerian Border Road
Road Construction
(CFAF million)
Benefits
Year        Constnuction         Savings in           Savings in              Total
Cost               VOC               Maintenance
2/
1976          945.19                 0                     0                    0
1977             0                 74,57                 34.09              108.66
1978             0                 80.38                 34.35              114.73
1979             0                 86.64                 34.62              121.26
1980             0                 93'39                 34.92              128.31
1981             0                100,67                 35.24              135.91
1982             0                108.52                45.71               154.23
1983             0                116.98               - 66.51 3/            50.47
1984             0                126.10                46.42               172.52
1985             0                135.93                 46.81              182.74
1986             0                146.53                47.22               193.75
1987             0                157.95                 60.81              218.76
1988             0                170.27                 61.20              231.47
1989             0                183.55                 61.63               245.18
1990             0                197.86               - 50.52 3/            147.34
1991             0                213.41                 62.53               275.94
1992             0                229.92                 79.10               309.02
1993             0                248.85                 79.60               328.45
1994             0                268.18                 80.13               348.31
1995             0                289.02                 80.69               369.71
1996             0                313.D6                 81.25               394.31
Economic Return: 15.8%
1/ Cost and benefits computed net of taxes in third quarter of 1974 prices.
2/ Cost includes provision for supervision of works.
/ Benefits are negative due to road surface resealing.



7-  '       .      I  B  Y  A
N.                                                     -'7  .7- .7-                - .   N/
A    L    G    E    R   I    A                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N  I G  E R
\.N                                                                -7-                                                 j    THIRD   HIGHWAY   PROJECT
7- ,                                                                 ROAD NETWORK
'7                                              \.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    --~~~~~~~~:  PROJECT ROADS AREAS
-20   -\_  4t    /                      ,                                             -----  PLANNED ROADS
'CV                                                               S  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUBDIVISIONS
-20''.                                                                                                                                              PAVED ROARIS
;  t/  (  -____GPARVED GRAVEL ROA20
CGRAVEL ROADS
<:Assamzka~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -<                             - - ROADS UNDER CONSTWJCTION
I    ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ABB~~~~~~~~~~~~~BEB                                   V~~~~~~~~~~~~~....  EARTH ROADS
|"~ -~        \          t>Arlit                        Ach,0ml,p0Z-_- O  a                   j       _____  TRACKS
*  Ado                       -              C                     I             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
'  In Aba l  \INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
M     A     L    I                                              >I\ Tegu/dda-in-TessouA  3D   T-
ITBso.dd.i-~T-B o.-    I     I
|              XCADE !                                                              /                        t~~~/ 
z  .?  TchmTBbaladen  '>   '                                                        /-                      ~~~~~~~~~~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KIltOMETERS   1-
WS    fX   iF_;  ma                                                                            ;   /f@ I d'd    AX~~~~~~Os.oas AGDE
Kr ,R,dfod  t6>4:   N  I G  E R I A   M5wtr           12'  '.<5t>'"'  0  \''~.
0'  / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AdB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SjBB,flSI~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~IBk-xfiU.2O
C  AV,O   IA                                                                                                                              Th RNIR B'BRONNonGui  no  do 00
vo                                                                                     M.-~~/Mw                      Dd N)/BRRR
Toodi                l~~~~~~~~Ie   G oo E   R   I  A                                        *I             NAA.G
Yalakala ~~~~O                                    0                                                    r                                 V16'-
0.  4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
I 6  E o n e o   K i in dTI "N uI






8-                                                                                      1               N  I G    E  R
THIRD HIGHWAY  PROJECT
Project Roods
Paved Roads
Improved Gravel Roads        1
%$  >  N  I      G        E        R                   a                                                                Earth Roads
Connecting Rood Babura-Kunyia
<   >  \  g =   _   =  ZINDER     DGoure                     in Nigeria to be improved
Go.we                     International Boundaries
0       20      40      60       60     100
,   \Q  )   11 3.3 km  72.7 km                                         K I LOM ETERS
\            \X  ~~~49k.             ,         
Bondi Haousa                                                                         ).Ii BY A
\   1 \ \   ;   /   t d      X                           g C  d   H a o u s a                            .  \    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~A  L   G   E   R   I  A   /\
13'               jia  X,--___<                                                               Morio                         ,/ oSi
\Bobura                                       M       A L I
Y  N I G E R 
/~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~4uu                              NIAMEY.,          o~~              .
7                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~VOLTA          e            hd
()                                                                             \*h.\   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~~~Ar ..v. ....d by M.p
a~~~~~~~~~.uyaIo-  N I G E R I A fo k'
_ TShe    tooods rhrs own    on    this    -ap   do    not  7  r !                                       I                                                                      O  I
'     m h lye-dop       -ent  o   acoeptanot  by  the            On
WorldB-nk.nd-Gtffdihot                                                             8              KANO                                                                           ( l i                          -  ,'J       f  M



