CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 612 NIR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Third Highway Project)
b etween
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 5, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 5, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF NIGER
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement No. 55 NIR
(Road Project) dated June 24, 1964, between the Borrower and the
Association, the Association has made available to the Borrower a
development credit in various currencies equivalent to one million
five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000) to assist the Borrower
in financing the design, improvement and construction of certain
roads in the Borrower's national highway system;
(B) by the Development Credit Agreement No. 128 NIR (Highway
Maintenance Project) dated September 23, 1968, between the Borrower
and the Association, as amended by an agreement between the Borrower
and the Association dated November 26, 1973, the Association has
made available to the Borrower a development credit in various
currencies equivalent to six million four hundred seventy thousand
dollars ($6,470,000) to assist the Borrower in financing a four-
year highway maintenance program and preinvestment studies; and
(C) by the Development Credit Agreement No. 231 NIR (Second
Highway Construction Project) dated January 29, 1971, between the
Borrower and the Association, as amended by an agreement between
the Borrower and the Association dated November 26, 1973, the
Association has made available to the Borrower a development
credit in various currencies equivalent to six million five
hundred fifty thousand dollars ($6,550,000) to assist the Borrower


﻿-2-
in financing the construction and improvement of, and the prepara-
tion of preinvestment studies for, certain roads in the Borrower's
national highway system and in the purchase of equipment and the
training of personnel;
(D) the Borrower has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of Parts A, B(i)(b), B(ii) and C of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit
as hereinafter provided;
(E) the Borrower intends to contract from the Arab Bank for
Economic Development in Africa (hereinafter called BADEA) a loan
(hereinafter called the BADEA Loan) in an amount of seven million
dollars ($7,000,000) to assist in financing Parts A, B(i)(b),
B(ii) and C of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth
in an agreement (hereinafter called the BADEA Loan Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and BADEA;
(F) the Borrower intends to contract from the African Devel-
opment Fund (hereinafter called ADF) a loan (hereinafter called
the ADF Loan) in an amount of three million two hundred forty
thousand ADF Units of Account (ADF U.A.3,240,000) to assist in
financing Part B(i)(a) of the Project on the terms and condition
set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the ADF Loan Agree-
ment) to be entered into between the Borrower and ADF; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the term "DPW/U"
means the Borrower's Directorate of Public Works and Urban Devel-
opment (Direction des Travaux Publics et de l'Urbanisme).


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fifteen million six hundred thousand dollars ($15,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the goods, works and services (other than consultants' services)
for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-5-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three--fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15
and July 15 commencing January 15, 1986, and ending July 15, 2025,
each installment to and including the installment payable on July 15,
1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half
per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal. amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through DPW/U with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and of Section 4.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower
specifically undertakes to make arrangements, satisfactory to the
Association, to provide such funds as are needed to meet recurrent
expenditures required for carrying out the routine and the periodic
maintenance operations on the Borrower's classified road network.
For this purpose, the Borrower shall, inter alia, review, in con-
sultation with the Association, not later than May 31 of each
year, or such other date as the Association may agree, the budget-
ary proposals for such maintenance operations in the fiscal year
starting on October 1 thereafter.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist in the supervision of
the maintenance works and the training of specialized staff within
DPW/U under Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall, except as
the Association shall otherwise agree, employ one highway engineer,
three mechanics, two chiefs of regravelling units and one expert
in routine maintenance of paved roads, all of whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association.


﻿-7-
(b) In order to assist in the supervision of the works under
Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(c) In order to assist in carrying out Part C of the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, expe-
rience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.03. The Zinder-Nigerian border road provided for
under Part B(i) of the Project shall not be constructed unless
and until the Borrower shall have received notice from the Asso-
ciation, on or before December 31, 1977, that the Association
is satisfied that appropriate arrangements have been made for the
construction of the road between Kunya, Nigeria, and the Borrower's
border (Babura-Kunya road). If such notice shall not have been
received by the Borrower by said date, the construction of such
road section shall be deleted from the Project, unless the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any in-
demnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-8-
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
Section 3.06. In order to ensure adequate management staffing
of DPW/U, the Borrower shall:
(a) review and update, in consultation with the Association
and not later than December 31, 1976, or such other date as the
Association my agree, its plan for providing qualified local


﻿-9-
personnel for DPW/U's management staff in charge of road mainte-
nance, and review annually, in consultation with the Association,
the progress made in implementing said plan; and
(b) take all action necessary, in consultation with the
Association, for the prompt establishment and implementation of
a program providing adequate and timely training to local personnel
in order to prepare it to assume management positions within DPW/U.
Section 3.07. In order to ensure that DPW/U be staffed with
the required specialized personnel, the Borrower shall:
(a) appoint within DPW/U, not later than October 1, 1976,
or such other date as the Association may agree, qualified local
counterparts to the highway engineer and two of the three mechanics
referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 3.02 of this Agreement and
assign such counterparts to the corresponding tasks;
(b) appoint within DPW/U, not later than October 1, 1977,
or such other date as the Association may agree, qualified local
counterparts to the other experts referred to in said paragraph (a)
of Section 3.02 of this Agreement and assign such counterparts to
the corresponding tasks; and
(c) prepare and furnish to the Association for its review
and approval, within four months after the Effective Date or such
other period as the Association may agree, and thereafter promptly
implement, a detailed program for providing such training to DPW/U
personnel as shall be required for ensuring effective periodic
maintenance operations under Part A of the Project.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire, as and when
needed, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction of the roads included in the Project.
Section 3.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the design standards for the roads included in Part B of the Proj-
ect shall be those set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause its road network and
its road maintenance equipment to be adequately maintained and
shall cause all necessary repairs thereof to be made promptly,
all in accordance with sound engineering and economic standards,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the foregoing.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall
be reasonably required to ensure that the dimensions and axle-loads
of vehicles using the roads in its national highway system will not
exceed limits consistent with the design standards of such roads.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall collect and record in accor-
dance with appropriate statistical methods and procedures such
technical, economic and financial data as shall be reasonably
required for proper planning of maintenance, improvements and
extension of its highway system.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(i)       Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the BADEA Loan or the ADF Loan
made to the Borrower for the financing
of the Project shall have been st-spended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the BADEA Loan
Agreement or the ADF Loan Agreement,
respectively, or
(B)  the BADEA Loan or the ADF Loan shall have
become due and payable prior to the agreed
maturity thereof.
(ii)      Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction
of the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreements, and


﻿- 13 -
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of
the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely that the event specified in para-
graph (i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the BADEA Loan Agreement and the ADF Loan Agreement
have been duly signed and conditions precedent to initial disburse-
ments, if any, under said agreements, save for the effectiveness
of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date June 7, 1976 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date
twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Public Works, Transportation
and Urban Development of the Borrower is designated as represen-
tative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Travaux Publics, des
Transports et de l'Urbanisme
Niamey
Republic of Niger
Cable address:
MINISTRAVO
Niamey
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 16 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
By /s/ 1lla Salifou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ E. Peter Wright
Director
Country Programs Department
Western Africa Regional Office
011


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Consulting services           900,000              51%
for Part A of the
Project
(2) Equipment for Part          2,500,000              53%
A of the Project
(3) Civil works under          .7,500,000              44%
Parts B(i)(b) and
B(ii) of the Pro-
ject
(4) Consulting services           800,000              51%
for supervision of
civil works under
Part B of the Proj-
ect
(5) Consulting services            50,000              51%
for Part C of the
Project
(6) Unallocated                 3,850,000
TOTAL      15,600,000


﻿- 18 -
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied           t
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit de-
creases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the Bor-
rower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals may be made in
respect of Category (1) on account of expenditures incurred after
July 1, 1975, in respect of consulting services for the preparation
of bidding documents for the procurement of equipment, in an aggre-
gate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $40,000.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the


﻿- 19 -
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce
the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 20-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:
Periodic maintenance of the Borrower's classified gravel road
network and of about 600 km of earth roads under a four-year
maintenance program (1976-1979) (to reach an annual capacity
of about 320 km of regravelling at the end of the program
period), including the purchase of highway maintenance equip-
ment and the training of specialized DPW/U staff at all levels.
Part B:
Construction and improvement works on:
(i)       the road from Zinder to the Nigerian border (about
113 km) comprising the sections (a) from Zinder to
a point about 28 km from Zinder in the direction of
the Nigerian border, and (b) from this point to the
Nigerian border (about 85 km); and
(ii)      the road from Maradi to the Nigerian border (about
49 km).


﻿-21-
Part C:
Survey of the Borrower's road construction industry.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.
U


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods, works and services
shall be procured under contracts to be awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
p blished by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   Bidders for the works included in Parts B(i)(b) and B(ii)
of the Project shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3
of Part A of the Guidelines.
3.   The works included in Parts B(i)(b) and B(ii) of the Project
shall be executed under unit price contracts.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
The Borrower may award contracts for equipment without re-
course to international competitive bidding, provided that (i) the
estimated price of such contracts shall not exceed the equivalent
of $10,000; (ii) such contracts shall be awarded in accordance
with procurement procedures satisfactory to the Association; and
(iii) the aggregate amount of the contracts awarded pursuant to
this Part shall not exceed the equivalent of $300,000.


﻿1  23 -
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (point of entry) price for imported goods; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be ex-
cluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
D.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preference
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works under Parts B(i)(b)
and B(ii) of the Project the Borrower may grant a margin of pref-
erence of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A.2 of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying also for such preference shall be asked to provide, as
part of the information for qualification, such information,
including details of ownership, as shall be required to determine
whether, according to the classification established by the Bor-
rower and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group
of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents
shall clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect
to such preference.


﻿- 24 -
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by the Bor-
rower, responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)       bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii)      bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the
procedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in
said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility for
domestic preference under Part D above and of the reasons for the
exclusion of any applicant for prequalification and for such eli-
gibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for
its comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower
'shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in,
the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts.


﻿- 25 -
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $10,000 or more and all contracts for civil
works:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is is.,ued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 26 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the con-
tract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 4
Design Standards for the
Zinder-Nigerian Border and Maradi-Nigerian Border
Design Speed:                                       100 km/h
Maximum Grade:
normal                                5%
exceptional                           7%
Minimum Radius of Horizontal Curvature:
normal                              665 m
exceptional                         425 m
Pavement Width:
Zinder-Nigerian Border                6 m
Maradi-Nigerian Border                7 m
Shoulder Width:
Zinder-Nigerian Border                1e0o m
Maradi-Nigerian Border                1.50 m
Design Axle Load for Pavement:                      13 t


