Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo. 12770
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
INDUSTRIAL AND ARTISAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1572-MAU)
FEBRUARY 16, 1994
Industry and Energy Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =             Mauritanian Ouguiya (UM)
US $1.0                            UM 45
UM I                               US $0.022
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BMDC          Banque Mauritanienne de Developpement et de Commerce
CEPI          Centre d'Etudes et de Promotion Industrielle
CFPP          Centre de Formation et de Perfectionnement Professionnel
CGEM          Confederation Generale des Employeurs de Mauritanie
CIFPB         Centre International de Formation de la Profession Bancaire
CNI           Commission Nationale des Investissements
FND           Fonds National de Developpement
FND           Fonds National de Developpement
GOM           Government of Mauritania
MIS           Management Information System
OMAT          Office Mauritanien de I'Artisanat du Tapis
OTM           Office du Tapis Mauritanien
OTM           Office du Tapis Mauritanien
PCR           Project Completion Report
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
SAL           Structural Adjustment Loan
SME           Small and Medium scale Enterprises
UBD           Union des Banques de Developpement
UBD           Union des Banques de Developpement
UNDP          United Nations Development Project
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Office of Dlrector-Gen.ral
Operations Evuiuelon
February 16, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Mauritania -
Industrial and Artisan Development Project (Credit 1572-MAU)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Mauritania - Industrial and Artisan Development
Project (Loan 1572-MAU) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No contribution was received from
the Borrower.
The main objective of the project was to support diversified economic growth through the
development of the industrial and artisan sectors. The project included: a line of credit for small and
medium enterprises; and technical assistance aimed at strengthening the development bank, training
carpet weavers and accountants, and identifying policy and regulatory constraints to industrial
development.
The project was declared effective one year behind schedule. It was implemented over a 7 year
period, during which less than 50 percent of the IDA credit was disbursed. The project failed to meet
its objectives, because of the prevailing macroeconomic and policy distortions and the distressed
financial condition of the implementing agencies.
The PCR presents a good and candid assessment of the project's failed outcome. Of the 11
subprojects financed under the line of credit component, only 3 are reported to be performing
satisfactorily. The institutional development aspects of the project were lost on the two main
implementing agencies, the development bank and the carpet bureau, which ceased operations and had
to be restructured. The project's only contribution appears to have been in the financing of a few
studies which provided useful inputs for a structural adjustment operation.
The project was inadequately appraised and supervised. The lack of adequate monitoring on the
part of the Bank and the Government led to the perpetuation of a project which should have been
cancelled or radically redesigned prior to project effectiveness.
The project is rated as unsatisfactory. Institutional development achievements are rated as
negligible and sustainability as unlikely.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
bhis document has a restricted distribution and nay be used by recipients only in the perfofmance of their official duties. UI contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
INDUSTRIAL AND ARTISAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1572-MAU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Pagze N°
PREFACE ...................................................
EVALUATION SU MARY  ......................................ii
PART I.        PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ....                      ......   1
A.     Project Identity .....................................    1
B.     Background .......................................   1
C.     Project Objectives and Description  ........................   2
D.     Project Implementation ................................    3
F.     Project Results .....................................    5
o   Line of Credit Component.. 5
o      Technical Assistance and training to BMDC..   7
o      Technical Assistance to OTM and to carpet weavers..   8
o      Assistance to CFPP for the Training of Accountants..   9
o   Ministry of Industry TA Component .10
G.   Project Sustainability ...................                                    11
H.    Bank's Performance ..................................   12
1.     Borrower's Performance  ...........         ..       .................   12
J.     Bank/Borrower relationship ...........        ..       ................  13
K.     Project Documentation and Data ..........        ..      ..............  13
PART H.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ..... 16
PART III.    STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ........................  17
A.     Related Bank Credits .................................   17
B.     Project Timetable ...................................   17
C.     Credit Disbursements .................................   13
D.     Project Costs and Financing .............................  19
1. Line of Credit .19
2.  Assistance to BMDC .19
3. Assistance to OTM .19
4.  Training of Accountants .19
5.     Technical Assistance to Ministry of Industry .19
E.     Use Of Bank Resources  ........ ..                    ..........   22
1.     Staff inputs ....................   22
2.   Missions .....................                                        23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






MAURITANIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL AND ARTISAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1572-MAU'
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Industrial and Artisanal Development
project in Mauritania, for which Credit 1572-MAU in the amount of SDR 5.4 million was
approved on March 25, 1985. The credit was closed on December 31, 1991. Only SDR 2.6
million were disbursed, the remaining amotint was cancelled.
2.    The PCR was prepared by the Industry and Energy Division of the Sahel Department
(Preface, Parts I and II). The Borrower has not provided Part II.
3.    Preparation of the PCR started in late 1992. The PCR is based on the Staff Appraisal
report, the Credit and Project Agreements, supervision reports and correspondence between IDA
and the Borrower.



l



ii
MAURITANIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL AND ARTISAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1572-MAU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives.
1.    The Industrial and Artisan Development project (IDF II) had practically the same
objectivesl/ as a previous project, the Urban and Rural Development project (IDF I) approved
by IDA in 1979 and, according to the project PCR, relatively successfully completed in 1985.
Its main objective was to build upon the achievements of IDF I to further economic growth and
diversification through the development of private industrial enterprises and of productive
activities in the artisan sector. To this end, it included the fivY following components: (a) a line
of credit to the Banque Mauritanienne de Developpement et de Commerce (BMDC); (b) technical
assistance and training to BMDC; (c) technical assistance, training and equipment, through Office
Mauritanien du Tapis (OTM), to artisan carpet weavers; (c) assistance to the Centre de Formation
et de Perfectionnement Professionnels (CFPP) for training of accountants; and, (e) technical
assistance to the Ministry of Industry.
Implementation Experience.
2.    This project was prepared in 1983-1984, appraised in early 1984 and approved by IDA's
board on March 25, 1985. It took about a year to the Borrower to comply with the conditions
of effectiveness, in particular, with those concerning the strengthening of BMDC's capital base,
the financial restructuring and the establishment of a debt repayment schedule acceptable to IDA
for a public enterprise which was a major debtor of this bank. The credit was declared effective
in February 1986. It closed as scheduled on December 31, 1991.
3.    Even before the project became effective, its implementation ran into economic and
institutional problems. In 1985, Mauritania's persistent macro-economic imbalances and ill-
conceived policies culminated when the country begun to experience one of the most serious
economic crisis in its history. The inadequacy and limits of its interventionist policies became
manifest and the Government requested IDA's assistance to prepare an overall adjustment
program, including a rehabilitation plan of the ailing banking system. This program was carried
out under a first SAL approved by IDA in mid-1987. In this context, project implementation was
1/    In addition to an assistance to establish small village irrigation schemes along the
Senegal river valley, the Urban and Rural Development project included technical
assistance to BMDC and a line of credit to finance sub-projects in the industrial
projects sector and assistance to artisan carpet weavers through OTM.



iii
doomed to confront serious difficulties because the macro-economic environment was deficient
and constituted an impediment to a sustained development of sound economic activities in the
industrial and artisan sectors.
4.    On the institutional side, OTM and BMDC, the institutions in charge of implementing
the major components of the project whose frailty had been identified as a potential risk for
project implementation proved to be much weaker than assessed during appraisal.  The
management of OTM was unable to quickly secure the conversion into long-term debt of its
substantial short-term liabilities, a condition of disbursement for this component, and due to
increasing liquidity problems this institution ceased operations before project effectiveness.
BMDC's situation assessed in early 1984 in accordance with the prevailing IDA guidelines for
IDF-type projects was found to be relatively sound, although it needed a strengthening of its
capital base and of its institutional capacity. However, a review of the banking system completed
in March 1986 revealed that the situation of the Mauritanian banks was alarming and, in
particular, that BMDC was in a more critical condition than envisioned at the time of appraisal.
Consequently, despite recapitalization measures and the assistance supported by the project, its
situation continued to deteriorate. It was merged in 1987 with another Government financial
institution, the Fonds National de De'veloppement (FND) and the bank resulting from this merger,
the Union des Banques de Dlveloppement (UBD), is currently in the process of being liquidated.
5.    With hindsight, everything suggests that when in early 1986 it became evident that the
banking sector, including BMDC, was plagued with high level of arrears, liquidity problems and
ineffective management, project effectiveness should have been delayed until a re-assessment of
BMDC's situation and the enactment of appropriate measures to rehabilitate it had been
completed. Similarly, in mid-1987, IDA should have taken the initiative to cancel the project
because it was clear that: (i) continuing to keep the project alive to preserve the dialogue with
the Government with regard to the implementation of the SAL adjustment program would not,
as it has proved to be the case, improve the implementation of this project; and, (ii) the most
important objectives of the project would not be achieved.
Results.
6.     Overall, this project, one of the last IDF projects in the Sahel region, failed to achieve
its objectives. The line of credit component financed 11 sub-projects for an amount of about US$
1.6 million, of which 70% only was disbursed; a balance of uncommitted and undisbursed funds
of about US$ 2.9 million were canceled when the project closed at the end of 1991. The line of
credit did not help establish, as expected, industrial enterprises capable of creating new jobs and
of contributing to the country's economic development. Moreover, it might have contributed to
BMDC's portfolio problems. Of the 11 sub-project whose financing was approved, fw were
never completed, four others ceased operations and only three which created 95 sustainable jobs
are reported as operating satisfactorily. The technical assistance to BMDC was useless since it
prevented neither the deterioration of this bank nor the demise of the new bank formed by
merging BMDC with FND.
7.    With regard to the carpet weavers component,the sketchy information available indicates
that this component also failed to achieve its original objectives. After OTM ceased operations
it was revived by private investors associated with FND as a corporate enterprise, the Societ le
Tapis which is a pure commercial venture. It is reported to be still in operations but there is no
information on its performance and on whether it has carried out the training and development
program originally envisaged for carpet weavers.



iv
Sustainability.
8.    This project did not directly produce any durable benefit at the level of the national
economy. Its only contribution was to have financed studies which unveiled the inappropriateness
of the policy framework and the critical situation of the banking sector. These studies served as
an input for the preparation of the SAL. At the institutional level, the two main project
institutions are no longer capable to play a developmental role. The project did not prevent
BMDC and the bank resulting from its merger with FND to decline to the point that it is now
being liquidated. OTM has become a pure commercial venture whose achievements and future
are unclear.
Findings and Lessons Learned.
9.    The preparation and implementation of this project points to three main lessons which
have since been learned through similar IDF projects supported by IDA. The first lesson
concerns the viability of projects of this type. It has been found, and this project confirms this
fact, that no line of credit has a chance to be truly supportive of economic development unless
the overall economic policies of the concerned country are appropriate, its banking policies and
regulations adequate and enforced and its financial intermediaries efficient. The guidelines for
financial intermediaries operations issued in 1992 attempt to ensure that no IDA financed line of
credit will be extended if these conditions are not met. In the case of this project, it is now clear
that it should not have been prepared before a satisfactory implementation of the SAL had been
completed.
10.   Secondly, project preparation did not ensure a firm  commitment of the Government of
Mauritania (GOM) to the objectives of the project and therefore its ownership of the project.
The project documentation indicates that besides the project institutions no high ranking
Government official was ever concerned or involved in assessing project results. This problem
has been observed in various IDF projects and ensuring project ownership has become a crucial
component of project preparation.
11.   Thirdly, the project design did not include criteria or mechanisms to assess projects
results periodically and make sure that progress towards the achievement of its objectives was not
jeopardized. If a mid-term implementation review based on measurable criteria had been carried
out (as is now common practice), the need for actions to either radically re-design the project,
or to cancel it, would have been more evident.






MAURITANIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL AND ARTISAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1572-MAU)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Proiect Identity
Project Name  :                   Industrial and Artisan Development Project
Credit No.                        1572-MAU
RVP Unit    :                     Africa
Country      :                    Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Sector                            Industry and Artisan sectors
B. Background
1.    With a population of 2.1 million, Mauritania is a vast country of about 1.1 million square
kilometers, of which only about 0.2% is suitable for agricultural production. Its main economic
activities are iron ore mining in the north, fishing in and around Nouadhibou, the second largest
city, and agriculture and livestock along the Senegal river valley. In addition to a very limited
resource base, Mauritania suffers from serious environmental degradation deriving from
deforestation, overgrazing and cultivation of marginal lands, all of which contribute to soil
erosion.
2.    The majority of Mauritania's inhabitants have very low standards of living: life
expectancy at birth is estimated at 45 years, infant mortality is 132 per 1000, only 55% of
school-age children receive primary education and the GNP per capita was about US$ 510 in
1991.
3.    Until the mid-80s, Mauritania's economic situation was characterized by major macro-
economic imbalances, highly interventionist policies and a 2% rate of long term growth lower
than that of its population. However, because of its geopolitical situation, during the 1982-1984
period, Mauritania benefitted from an unusually high external assistance of about US$ 180 per
capita annually. Its is in this context that IDA approved in 1979 a Urban and Rural Development
project -IDF I (Credit 888-MAU). This credit provided the Banque Mauritanienne de
Developpement et de Commerce (BMDC) with technical assistance to strengthen its operations
and a line of credit to finance investment projects in the industrial sector. Other beneficiaries of
the project were women artisan carpet weavers and villages along the Senegal river which were
equipped with small irrigation systems. Overall, this project was successfully implemented. In



2
addition to improving its commercial banking activities, BMDC built up a basic capability for
project financing. The line of credit financed 8 viable investment projects generating 225 new
jobs. Through the Office du Tapis Mauritanien (OTM) about 400 carpet weavers received
assistance and irrigation systems were developed in about 30 small villages.
4.    To consolidate this relative success, the Industrial and Artisan Development Project - IDF
II (Credit 1572-MAU) was prepared in 1983. The rationale for IDA's continued support was
based on: (i) the need to support economic growth in sectors other than mining and agriculture
as world demand for iron ore was expected to continue to be weak and severe droughts to be
recurrent; (ii) the expectation that most of the non-Bank external financial aid to Mauritania
would continue to focus on areas other than small and medium industrial and artisanal enterprises;
and (iii) the positive results achieved under Credit 888-MAU. The implementation of this project
took place, however, in the context of economic hardship and structural reforms. By the time
it was approved by IDA in 1985, Mauritania faced one of the most severe crisis of its history.
It had become clear that, with the abortion of a 1981-1985 Development Plan, centrally conceived
and implemented, without profound economic reforms the country could not expect any lasting
growth prospects. In 1987, the Government of Mauritania (GOM) undertook, therefore, with
the Bank and the IMF assistance, a drastic structural adjustment program which resulted by 1991
in a more market-oriented economy and improved considerably the country's economic
performance which grew by about 3.5% per year, on average, between 1987 and 1989.
C. Project Objectives and Description
5.    The main objective of the project was to build upon the achievements of IDF I to further
economic growth and diversification through the development of private industrial enterprises and
of productive activities in the artisan sector. To this end, it aimed at: (i) continuing to strengthen
BMDC's institutional capability and increasing the availability of funds to finance industrial
projects, in particular to small and medium scale enterprises (SMEs); (ii) providing through OTM
further technical and financial assistance to artisan carpet weavers; (iii) helping alleviate the
shortage of accountants; and, (iv) identifying policy and regulatory bottle-necks to the
development of private enterprises in Mauritania.
6.    Project Institutions and components. The institutions participating in the project were:
BMDC, OTM, the Centre de Formation et de Perfectionnement Professionnel (CFPP) and the
Ministry of Industry. The SDR 5.4 million (or about US$ 5.25 million) credit proceeds were
allocated to the five following components: (a) a line of credit to BMDC of US$ 3.8 million
(72.4%); (b) technical assistance and training to BMDC for US$ 430,000 (8.2%); (c) technical
assistance, training and equipment, through OTM, to artisan carpet weavers for US$ 460,000
(8.8%); (d) assistance to CFPP for training of accountants for US$ 310,000 (5.9%); and, (e)
technical assistance to the Ministry of Industry for US$ 250,000 (4.7%).
7.    The principal activities and items to be financed by the IDA credit under these
components were:
(a)    Line of credit to BMDC:  Government loan to BMDC to finance fixed
investment and permanent working capital needs of new or existing private
enterprises in sectors other than agriculture. Of the US$ 3.8 million line of
credit, US$ 1.0 million was specifically earmarked for enterprises with total
assets of USS 250,000 or less to encourage the development of SMEs.



3
(b)    Technical Assistance to BMDC: Government grant to BMDC to finance: (i) one
year of expatriate expertise to help BMDC codify its procedures and establish a
Management Information System - MIS (US$ 80,000); (ii) a three year extension
of the services of a technical adviser to help implement new procedures, MIS and
internal controls; (iii) the training of BMDC's personnel (US$ 210,000); (iv) six
months of short term consultant services to BMDC's Development Department
to help assess the appropriateness of equipment and price of sub-projects
submitted to BMDC (US$ 70,000); and, (v) local training for 48 staff and
overseas training (courses and seminars) for 8 high-level staff (US$ 70,000).
(c)    Technical Assistance to OTM and to carpet weavers: Government grant to OTM
to finance: (i) the training of about 300 artisanal weavers (100 in Ayoun, 50 in
Barena, 50 in Alleg and 100 in Kiffa), including training costs, scholarships, raw
materials, and administrative costs (US$ 180,000); (ii) the organizing of trained
weavers into 50 cooperatives, including the provision of 50 looms, vehicles and
initial supplies of raw materials (US$ 210,000); and, (iii) a one year technical
and marketing assistance to weavers (US$ 70,000). Looms and raw material
were to be treated as a credit in kind to beneficiaries by OTM.
(d)    Assistance to CFPP for Training of Accountants: Government grant to CFPP to
finance: (i) a two year training program for 25 accountants operating in public
and private enterprises (16 in the private sector, 9 in the public sector), including
two years of expatriate instructor (US$ 225,000), salaries of two local instructors
(USS 42,000) and teaching materials (US$ 15,000); and, (ii) an independent
evaluation of the results of the training (US$ 28,000).
(e)    Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Industry: Two man/years of expert
services for the creation of a sector data base and review of the system of
incentives and institutional framework supporting private enterprise development
(US$ 200,000) and equipment and vehicles (US$ 50,000).
D. Project Implementation
8.    The IDF 11 Project was prepared in 1983-1984, appraised in early 1984 and approved by
IDA's Board on March 25, 1985. It took about a year to the Borrower to comply with the
conditions of effectiveness, in particular, with those concerning the strengthening of BMDC's
capital base, the financial restructuring and the establishment of a debt repayment schedule
acceptable to IDA of a public enterprise which was a major debtor of this bank. The Credit was
declared effective in February 1986. The implementation of IDF II progressed slowly amidst
growing economic difficulties and institutional problems. Unforeseen during project appraisal,
these events affected negatively the main components of the project, in particular the
strengthening of BMDC and the use of the line of credit, severely compromising the attainment
of its main objectives.
9.    As mentioned earlier, in 1985 Mauritania begun to experience one of the most serious
economic crisis of its history and the GOM started to realize the limit of its interventionist
economic policies. Recurrent droughts had inflicted major losses to livestock and drastically
decreased agricultural production. Depressed world markets had severely restrained foreign
exchange earnings and growing macro-economic imbalances had reached unsustainable
proportions. As a result, the banking sector, including BMDC, was affected by a very high level



4
of arrears and began to experience a serious liquidity crisis which led to a virtual bankruptcy of
all banking institutions.
10.    At the time of preparation and appraisal of Credit 1572-MAU, the alarming situation of
the banking sector had been diagnosed and the GOM had agreed to IDA's suggestion to
commission its reviewZ/ with a view  to preparing a restructuring program.  Correctives
measures thought to be sufficient, at this time, to restore its financial situation and institutional
strength were prepared to address BMDC's weaknesses. Relatively to other banks, BMDC was,
otherwise erroneously believed to be sound. This is due to the fact that, at this time, the
procedures used by IDA to assess the eligibility of financial intermediaries to IDF-type operations
were insufficient to accurately assess their real financial condition. As evidenced in the credit
SAR, these procedures were essentially limited to an analysis of their term lending operations,
an assessment of the soundness of their term-portfolio and to a broad review of their institutional
structure. The project appraisal did not take into account external factors such as the policy and
regulatory environment, the general condition of the country's economy and the situation and
workings of the overall financial sector which would proved, in the context of this project, as
having a crucial impact on the BMDC's very existence. As a result, the implementation of the
main component of Credit 1572-MAU relied on an institution which, because of its weaknesses
and of the economic difficulties of the country, was in fact doomed to an inexorable decline.
11.    In early 1986, when the GOM became aware of the critical situation of the economy and,
in particular, of the precarious situation of the banking system, it requested IDA's assistance to
prepare an overall adjustment program to be carried out under a SAL. This program included,
in particular, a banking system restructuring program prepared on the basis of the
recommendations of the review which was commissioned in mid-1985 and completed in March
1986. These recommendations included, inter alia, the merger of BMDC with the Fonds
National de Developpement (FND) a small Government financial institution specialized in
managing the line of credit granted by bi-lateral donors to finance development projects. The
review recommended also drastic measures to strengthen the Union des Banques de
Developpement (UBD), the bank resulting from this merger. However, in spite of the emerging
information about the distress of the overall banking system, the Credit was declared effective
in February 1986, when the borrower had complied with the agreed conditions of effectiveness.
12.    In retrospect, everything suggests that Credit effectiveness should have been delayed until
the banking sector review mentioned earlier had provided, in particular, a thorough assessment
of BMDC's situatiog'. It is clear that, at the time of appraisal, expectations that BMDC could
be rehabilitated to the point that it could successfully execute the line of credit were overly
optimistic. As a result, the line of credit was used by BMDC until its merger with FND. It was
then virtually suspended until the project was closed in 1991.
2/     An evaluation ol thc banking syst. m was commissioned lo the Centre International de Formation de la
Profve.Nion Banciire and was compIeted in March 1986. 'Audit du Systeme Bancaire de la R'publique
l..luoue de Muajrilanie" CIFI'B, Pans, 7 Mars. 1986.
3/     IDA's Credit Agrccrncints sl Eily that thu borrower must ensure that sound project implementation
cooiniti uris are III J'1;Ic hdlBrL (C'rtdis are .11Abursed, andl tiiat IDA rescrvcs the right to cancel, delay
anhl,'/)r sI1.r!Id  nicrLrierts if aiid  Ii. \i oichldtioins are not met or change adversely.



5
13.   The implementation of the carpet weavers component became questionable when, in late
1985, OTM had to stop its operations because of financial difficulties. In early 1986, it was
bought by private investors associated with FND and revived as a corporate enterprise, the
Societe Le Tapis. The implementation of this component was delayed until mid-1987 when IDA
declared Societ Le Tapis eligible to receive the financing that the project had initially earmarked
for OTM. With regard to the other components of the project, the CFPP training for accountants
and the technical assistance to the Ministry of Industry were implemented more or less as
anticipated and were able to achieve a significant part of their respective objectives.
14.   Overall, however, it seems that the implementation of Credit 1572-MAU was further
complicated by its overlap with the implementation of the SAL approved by IDA in mid-1987.
The restructuring of the banking system initiated under this operation might have contributed to
create the hope, on the part of the GOM, that the banks would be soon rehabilitated and that a
cancellation of the line of credit was not justified. The project documentation indicates also that
the restructuring of the banking sector resulted in frequent changes at the head of the banks and
might have overloaded the operational and supervision capacity of critical government bodies such
as the Central Bank and the Ministry of Finance. Finally, the drop in the intensity of supervision
of Credit 1572 which occurred after 1987 suggests that the GOM and IDA had shifted their focus
primarily to the implementation of the SAL at the expense of a close monitoring of this project.
Against this backdrop, the implementation of all Credit components suffered from moderate to
severe problems, which resulted in implementation delays, supervision difficulties and shortfalls
in achievement of their objectives and targets.
F. Project Results
Line of Credit Component.
15.   The Banque Mauritanienne de Developpement was originally established, in 1961, as a
purely development bank. In 1974, it was authorized to conduct full range of banking activities
and was renamed Banque Mauritanienne de Developpement et de Commerce (BMDC). Between
1979 and 1983 BMDC expanded its operations and more than doubled its assets under highly
risky portfolio management conditions. By 1982 the quality of BMDC's portfolio declined
considerably as a result of the economic slowdown in the country, inadequate portfolio
management procedures, and the lack of an effective legal framework to deal with delinquent
debtors. At the end of 1982 BMDC's arrears had reached UM 913 million, equivalent to 53%
of its total outstanding portfolio. Thanks to the creation in 1983 of a special court to deal with
delinquent debtors, by 1984, BMDC had managed to reduce its arrears to UM 637 million, or
28% of its portfolio. In addition, as conditions of project effectiveness, BMDC increased
substantially its provisions for bad loans and its capital base was strengthened to restore its
prudential ratios. The project included also measures aiming at improving its institutional
capacity, measures which at the time were considered sufficient to restore BMDC's operational
strength and financial position.
16.   The appraisal mission had identified a pipeline of 36 projects, of which BMDC envisaged
to finance 20 during the 1985-91 period with the proceeds from the IDF II line of credit. Of the
US$ 3.8 million earmarked to the line of credit proceeds, US$ 1.0 million were allocated to
finance small scale enterprises with total assets of less than US$250,000 and the remainder to
finance enterprises with total assets exceeding the above limit.



6
17.    In 1986, BMDC started to face liquidity problems and, in the context of the banking
sector reform prepared and carried out under the first SAL, it was merged in mid-1987 with
Fonds National de Dgveloppement (FND) to form a new bank - the Union des Banques de
Developpement (UBD). As a result, the borrower suspended, in agreement with IDA, the use
of the line of credit which, because the uncertain future of UBD, could not legally be transferred
to this new institution. In late 1990, IDA rejected also a request from the GOM to convert the
line of credit into a Apex financing facility located at the Central bank because the restructuring
of the banking system was far from being successfully completed.
18.    The line of credit was therefore used by BMDC from february 1986 to mid-1987. It
financed, with IDA's approval, the 11 sub-projects listed in the following table which required
a total financing of about US$ 1.6 million. Of this total financing approved originally, about
70% only (about US$ 1.1 million) was disbursed. The sub-projects financed covered various
types of activities in the industrial and service sectors. Of the 11 sub-projects, 4 concerned small
scale enterprises the others were relatively large enterprises.
Table 1
Sub-projects financed by BMDC's line of credit
(Amounts in US$)
Sub-pwjocts Name    j Econonic sector/     Expected              Enterprise's  j Amount
Activity           j Products/Services     Total Asst  Psnanced
HOTEL DE L'OASIS      Tourism/Hotel         Hotel ervices        730,000       362,000
SIPEC                 Industry              Automotive mufflers    300,000     84,000
SrA                   Induxtty              Solar cookers        780,000       76,000
MIE                   Industty             Wool Blankets         1,110,000     170,000
IFICO                 Induxtry              Fishing net          1,780,000     270,000
VERMAU                Industry              Mirrors & glass      150,000       99,000
BOUL.A KIFFA          Infonnal              Bakery products      75,000        66,000
SOKAHOTT              Tourism/Hotel        Hotel services        380,000       110,000
SEL DE MAURITANIE  Industry                table salt            140,000       90,000
I.A.A. G.             Industrial services  Refrigeration services   110,000    75,000
PNEUS DAHOUD          Industry             re-treading of car tires   590,000  190,000
TOTAL          |                                           6,145,000      1,592,000
19.    The number and variety of sub-projects financed by BMDC over a short period of time
seems to point out to a good performance of this institution. However, a closer look at the
results achieved indicates that not only the financing granted by BMDC did not achieve the
objective of developing sound private investments but it certainly contributed to worsen its
portfolio.  As shown in the following table, fM  of the sub-projects financed were never
completed and fa  others had ceased operations at the time of the closing of the project. Only



7
three, which created 95 new sustainable jobs, are reported as operating satisfactorily. It is clear
from this evidence that this component did not succeed to achieve its objectives. The poor result
achieved with the line of credit is largely due to the optimistic assessment of BMDC's
institutional capacity as well as to the harsh economic conditions which were somewhat
overlooked at appraisal.
Table 2
Status of sub-projects financed by the line of credit
Subproject       Amount        Amount        Date     * of    Cedit     Conummnt
(Name)      Financed (S)  Disbursed (S)   Financed   New    Statu
Joba
HOTEL DE       361,753.4    361,753.4      03/11/86   ...    Del.      Constuction
L'OASIS                                                                not completed
SIPEC          84,000       84,000         03/11/86   23     Good      Active
STA            76,000                      03/11/86  ...               Not done
MIE            170,000       134,836.64    05/27/86   ...    Del.      Closed
IFICO          266,728.52    243,534.73    07/17/86   62     Good      Active
VERMAU         98,802.03    98,802.03      09/19/86   ...    Del.      Closed
BOUL.A         65,830       64,653.12      10/15/86  ...     Del.      Closed
KIFFA
SOKAHOTT       110,000                     02/02/87  ...     Del.      Not done
SEL DE         89,290       79,791.85      03/12/87  ...     Del.     halted
MAURITANI
E
I.A.A.G.       74,284.17    54,156.79      10/30/87   10     Good      Active
PNEUS          187,085                     11/05/87  ...               Not done
DAHOUD
TOTAL        |1,583,773      1,121,528.5   |        | 95       T
Technical Assistance and training to BMDC.
20.    The institutional strengthening of BMDC has been a long standing and continuous need.
The action program envisaged by the Credit was designed to continue previous IDA technical
assistance and to address the principal institutional and staff development issues identified as
impediments to the successful implementation of the credit. The project was supposed to provide
continued support to BMDC through a Government grant of US$ 430,000 for:
(i)     one year of expatriate expertise to help BMDC  codify its procedures and
establish a MIS (US$ 80,000);



8
(ii)   extension of three years of a technical adviser for the implementation of the new
procedures, MIS and internal controls, and the training of its personnel (US$
210,000);
(iii)  six months of short-term  consultant services to BMDC's Development
Department to help assess the appropriateness of equipment and price of sub-
projects submited to BMDC (US$ 70,000); and
(iv)   local training for 48 staff and overseas training (courses and seminars) for 8
high-level staff (US$ 70,000).
21.   This component was fully disbursed and the assistance envisaged was delivered to BMDC
and to UBD when BMDC was merged with FND. The bank's procedures were reviewed and
codified by a consultant firm in 1986 but their implementation was suspended pending the
completion of BMDC's merger with FND. The technical assistance to establish a Management
Information System to be implemented with the help of computer equipment financed by the first
IDF project was also provided to BMDC. With regard to training, the project financed courses
delivered by local institutions to about 40 staff members and by foreign training institutions to
another 10. In addition, six other BMDC staff attended short-term seminars on techniques of
credit applications for sub-project financing.
22.   With hindsight, it is evident that the objectives of this component were not met. Besides
its financial difficulties, BMDC was plagued with management problems and interference of the
Central Bank in its operations. Its General manager was changed three times over a period of
three years but none of the appointees had the experience and competence required to take
advantage of the assistance provided by the project. It is not surprising, therefore, that this
assistance not only has been unable to help BMDC remain solvent but has failed to help UBD
mature into a viable bank. The fact that UBD itself is presently in the process of being liquidated
attests to the fact that the re-capitalization of BMDC and the technical assistance and the training
originally envisaged in the project were largely inadequate to address the problems of this bank.
Technical Assistance to OTM and to carpet weavers.
23.   In 1979, during the preparation of the first IDF project, it was agreed with the GOM to
include a component in support of the Office Mauritanien de I 'Artisanat du Tapis (OMAT), which
later became Office du Tapis Mauritanien (OTM), to provide assistance to about 200 women
carpet weavers. This initiative was expected to have a high social impact because it would help
provide a steady income to very poor women in the informal sector. Consequently, US$1.66
million were allocated to rehabilitate this institution through provision of looms, technical
assistance and training. In 1980, following IDA's recommendation, OTM decentralized carpet
production by creating small independent cooperatives. OTM provided to each cooperative
technical guidance and credit-in-kind in the form of one loom and raw materials. By 1982 OTM
had equipped the existing 200 women weavers and started to train another 200. However because
of a short term debt of about UM 25 million inherited from OMAT and of excessive
administrative costs, OTM was operating at a loss and with insufficient working capital to finance
the raw material that was needed. By 1983 OTM stopped all production and training, and IDA
suspended all disbursements. By the end of 1983, OTM's balance sheet showed a short term debt
of about UM 40 million, including UM 22 million towards the banks and UM 13.4 million
towards the social security system. IDA resumed disbursements in October 1984, after the GOM
introduced several measures to rehabilitate OTM (reduction of administrative personnel,



9
strengthening of management, cancellation of the interest due on the debt to the social security
system). A rescheduling of OTM's short term debt was also contemplated.
24.   It was anticipated that after the rehabilitation measures adopted under the first IDF project
and the support provided trough IDF II, OTM would be able to generate net positive cash flows
growing from about UM 820,000 in 1985 to about UM 7.3 million in 1989. Thus, the project
envisaged to provide continued support to OTM through a Government grant of US$ 460,000 for:
(i)   training of about 300 artisanal weavers (100 in Ayoun, 50 in Barena, 50 in Alleg
and 100 in Kiffa), including training costs, scholarships, raw materials, and
administrative costs (US$180,000);
(ii)   organizing trained weavers into 50 cooperatives, including the provision of 50
looms, vehicles and initial supplies of raw materials (US$210,000); and
(iii)   one year of technical and marketing assistance to weavers (US$70,000). Looms
and raw material were to be treated as a credit in kind from OTM to the
beneficiaries.
25.   At appraisal, OTM had been found to have serious financial difficulties. Consequently,
a financial restructuring plan based on the rescheduling of its debt towards the Social Security
System, in particular, was agreed upon with the GOM. The implementation of this plan was a
condition of disbursement for this component. However, before the GOM had the time to act
on these measures, in late 1985 OTM's intractable liquidity crisis forced it to stop operations.
The implementation of this component became more questionable when the Socicte Le Tapis took
over OTM's activities in early 1986. The component begun to be implemented only by mid-1987
when IDA, satisfied with the financial statements and institutional arrangements provided by the
Socigtg Le Tapis, declared this institution eligible for the financing that the project had initially
earmarked for OTM.
26.   The Borrower was unable to provide detailed information on the present performance of
Socigtg Le Tapis. The sketchy facts disclosed so far seem to indicate that this component has not
fully achieved its original objectives. Socigtg Le Tapis is reported to be still operating with more
than 2000 carpet weavers. It has become, however, a pure commercial venture. No information
is available as to whether it has extended its operations to other cities than Nouakchott and, thus,
implemented the development program originally envisaged for women carpet weavers which was
envisaged when IDA's assistance was granted to this institution, .
Assistance to CFPP for the Training of Accountants.
27.   In 1982 IDA prepared an Accounting and Auditing Profile of Mauritania which revealed
a lack of qualified accountants in the country. In addition to the need for training in basic
accounting, training was required to help existing professionals to adapt to the new national
accounting code introduced by the GOM in 1982. The project included therefore the training of
accountants already operating in existing public and private enterprises. This training was to be
provided by CFPP, a state owned vocational training center, founded in the late 1970's with
United Nations Development Project (UNDP) and IDA financing. CFPP's training services
include bookkeeping, clerical services and training in some selected technical fields (e.g.
construction and automobile mechanics). CFPP has financial autonomy under the Ministry of
Labor, and at the time of appraisal had an efficient operation record track. A Project Preparation



10
facility (PPF) of US$ 140,000 was approved in September 1984 to finance the preparation of this
component by experts from International Labor Organization (ILO). This preparation consisted
of the identification of potential trainees and the design of the training programs.
28.   The Credit was expected to provide support to CFPP through a Government grant of US$
310,000 for the financing of a two year training program for 25 accountants (16 private sector,
9 public sector), including:
(i)   two years of expatriate instructor (US$225,000);
(ii)   teaching materials (US$15,000);
(iii)   salaries of two local instructors (US$42,000); and
(iv)   an independent evaluation of the results of the training program (US$28,000).
29.   This component was implemented timely and as planned with the assistance of ILO's
experts. Training programs were prepared for two groups of accountants, professionals and
beginners, already in function in Mauritanian enterprises. These programs included theoretical
courses at CFPP and practical work in the enterprises employing them. Actual implementation
was undertaken between 1986 and 1987, and consisted of about 2,968 hours of training within
a 20 months period. A total of 36 accountants benefitted from CFPP's training: 23 at the level
of professional and 13 others at the level of beginners Oists in Annex 1).
30.   According to the evaluation report on the training results prepared by independent
consultants4, the objectives of this component were reasonably met. The trained accountants
were found to have improved their skills in preparing the accounts of their enterprises in
accordance with the dispositions of the new national accounting code. In addition to enhancing
their personal skills the report states that 60% of the enterprises concerned declared that the
trained accountants had somewhat improved their accounting procedures and 80% requested that
this training be continued by CFPP.
Ministry of Industry TA Component.
31.   The preparation of the project had revealed that the incentive system for private sector
development resulted in serious distortions affecting the economic allocation of scarce resources
and enterprise activities. Excessive tariff and non-tariff protection coupled with rigid price
controls had weakened the efficiency of existing enterprises. In addition, the regulations and
institutional framework in support of the development of the private sector were inadequate. The
investment code was biased in favor of large scale investments and the procedures for granting
its benefits to the entrepreneurs seeking them were cumbersome. Due to the scarcity of suitably
qualified administrative and technical staff and to the lack of a clear definition of their roles and
responsibilities, the institutions in charge of promoting industrial development - namely the
Centre d'Etudes et de Promotion Industrielle (CEPI) of the Ministry of Industry and the
Confederation Genarale des Employeurs de Mauritanie (CGEM), a private institution - were
largely ineffectual and had achieved very little success in carrying out their objectives. IDA's
4t     Evaluation de la Formation des Comptabks - Petites et Moyennes Industries, CFPP, Nouakchott, January
1988.



1 1
assistance to help the Ministry of Industry remedy these shortcomings, and consequently, to
support the development of the private sector and expand employment and domestic production,
was therefore included in this project.
32.   The Credit was expected to provide support to the Ministry of Industry through a grant
of US$ 250,000 to finance:
(i)   two man/years of expert services for the creation of a sector data base, the
review of the system of incentives and the institutional framework, and the
identification of the reforms needed in these areas (US$ 200,000); and,
(ii)   equipment and vehicles (US$ 50,000).
33.   The implementation of this component which was initiated in December 1986 was
successfully completed and fully disbursed by 1990. A long term expert assisted by short term
and specialized consultants carried out studies which proved to be crucial to the policy reforms
included in the SAL which followed this project. In June 1987 five reports were prepared by the
consultants on: (i) the reform of the policy and regulatory environment for enterprise
development; (ii) the reform of the institutional framework in support of the promotion of private
enterprises; (iii) the improvement of the communication to potential investors of the information
on administrative procedure required to initiate new investments; (iv) the identification of sectors
offering a potential for investment; and, (v) specific recommendations to further the development
of SMEs.
34.   These studies were instrumental in preparing the policy reforms which have, since, been
carried out under the structural adjustment program supported by the first SAL approved by IDA
in 1987. As a result, between 1988 and 1991 the following reforms have been successfully
implemented: (i) the revision of the investment code; (ii) the elimination of tariff and non-tariff
barriers to replace them by a uniform and effective level of protection; and, (iii) the total
liberalization of external trade and prices.  At the institutional level, however, besides the
rationalization of the functioning of the Commission Nationale des Investissements, the institution
in charge of administering the investment code, the implementation of the recommendations
concerning the overall institutional framework supporting enterprises promotion was not
implemented.
G. Project Sustainability
35.   The preceding paragraphs indicate that, overall, the project failed to achieve its main
objectives and did not produce any durable result in terms of economic benefits. At the
institutional level, BMDC and OTM which were considered as the most promising project
institutions did not generate the growth of employment in the industrial and artisan sectors
anticipated at appraisal.  Moreover, their situation deteriorated continuously during project
implementation and they can no longer play the development role which was theirs before the
project: BMDC is now defunct and OTM has been converted into a private commercial venture
whose achievements and future are unclear. Whatever its merits, the technical assistance to
BMDC did not prevent it from declining to the point that, despite the measures taken to
strengthen its financial situation and institutional capacity, its liquidation, along with that of the
FND, became unavoidable. The poor performance of the sub-projects financed by the line of
credit might have added to its portfolio problem and precipitated its collapse. The carpet weavers



12
component proved also to be ineffective and its impact has been insignificant on artisan carpet
weaving and on the artisan sector in general.
36.   On the positive side, the training of accountants participated to improve moderately the
management capabilities of the enterprises employing them, but this result is marginal. The
project component consisting of technical assistance to the Ministry of Industry was finally the
only one to have helped achieve long-lasting results: it helped prepare regulatory and policy
reforms in the areas of investment incentives and trade and pricing policies that have since been
carried out under the first SAL.
H. Bank's Performance
37.   In retrospect, this project should not have been prepared in the first place. It was
doomed to fail because the macro-economic environment was wrong and not conducive to a
sustained development of economically sound activities in the industrial or artisan sectors. As
reported in the SAR, the regulatory and policy framework were distorted by excessive protection
and controls. Most importantly the banking system was facing serious difficulties which were
confirmed soon after project effectiveness. In addition to this unfavorable context, the project
appraisal had under-estimated the shortcomings of the project institutions. Consequently, the
measures included in the project were insufficient to address BMDC's and OTM's financial and
management problems. Their weakness, coupled with inappropriate policies which severely
constrained the development of the real sector, were responsible for the demise of BMDC, for
the poor performance of the sub-projects that it financed and for OTM's inefficiency.
38.   When the situation described above became manifest and prompted the GOM to prepare
a structural adjustment program with the Bank support, the project had already been declared
effective. It was normally supervised in 1986 and 1987 (of a total of 45 staff/weeks of
supervision over six years, about 60% were spent during these two years) in an effort to restore
BMDC's deteriorating financial situation and strengthen its management capacity. The use of
staff resources table in part III of this report shows no supervision report for the project after
mid-1987. After this date the supervision of this project was included in that of the SAL
because: (i) the only component whose implementation was not completed was the component
relating to BMDC; (ii) BMDC and later UBD were part of the banking sector restructuring
included in the SAL: and, (ii) the same staff was assigned to supervise credit 1572 as well as the
banking sector component of the SAL. The project documentation indicates, however, that
BMDC's merger with FND signaled the beginning of an enduring decline of the bank. At this
point, rather than accepting an informal suspension of the use of the line of credit, IDA should
have cancelled the project as it was clear that the most important objectives of the project would
not be achieved. The project documentation indicates that since the GOM was opposed to the
cancellation, IDA might have thought that keeping the project alive would facilitate its dialogue
with the Borrower with regard to the implementation of the SAL. With hindsight, this attitude
might have contributed to elude the necessary IDA/GOM dialogue on a comprehensive strategy
to improve Mauritania's economy. By insisting on a cancellation of the project, IDA could have
had the opportunity to clarify this strategy and could have gained a firmer support, on the part
of the GOM, for the implementation, in priority, of the structural adjustment program.
I. Borrower's Performance
39.   This project was a repeater project and, therefore, the Borrower fully understood and
adhered to the project design and objectives. It was also very aware of the weaknesses of the



13
project institutions which were identified during project preparation. Until project effectiveness,
the performance of the Borrower was satisfactory. All the conditions were met though with some
tardiness: it took almost one year before the project could be declared effective mostly on account
of the difficulty to fulfill the conditions attached to the strengthening of BMDC's capital base.
40.   Judging by the results, the Borrower's performance during project implementation was
not satisfactory.  Since, there was no project coordination unit to monitor the overall
implementation of the project, a review of the performance of each participating institutions is
required to assess the Borrower's overall accomplishments. CFPP and the Ministry of Industry
carried out correctly the components under their responsibility. Not only their results were
globally satisfactory, the Status of Covenants in part III of the report shows that they respected
practically all the legal dispositions of the Project Agreement.  The poor results of the
components implemented by both OTM (or Le Tapis) and BMDC indicate that their performance
was equally poor. At appraisal, these institutions had been found to be weak and measures had
been devised to strengthen them. In the case of OTM, its management was so inadequate that
the institution had to stop operations before project effectiveness. When it resumed its activities
under new management it became a commercial venture and nothing indicates that it has taken
over the training and development programs originally envisaged for carpet weavers. Although
BMDC's General manager was changed three times in the 1985-1987 period, BMDC's
management was never adequate. This contributed certainly to the poor performance of the
technical assistance financed by the project and to the gradual decline of the bank.
J. Bank/Borrower relationship
41.   The relationship IDA/Borrower does not seem to have been effective. This might stem
from the fact that, as mentioned earlier, there was no project coordination and therefore no direct
involvement of the GOM in the project implementation. The project documentation does not
indicates that no overall assessment of the project results and of the corrective measures required
to improve its implementation was carried out between IDA and high ranking officials of the
GOM. In addition, it seems that after 1987, priority was deliberately given to the SAL with both
parties failing to realize that, in the context of the adjustment process initiated, this project had
no chance to succeed.
K. Project Documentation and Data
42.   The preparation of this Project Completion Report (PCR) which was initiated in late 1992
was severely constrained by the lack of data on the results of the different components of the
project. The information contained in the project documentation, adequate until late 1987, does
not allow any precise assessment of the results achieved, in particular, through the
implementation of the line of credit and of carpet weavers component. A questionnaire was
prepared and sent to the GOM to request information which could have been used to complete
Part II of this report as well as to update the information available in the project documentation.
This questionnaire has been answered only partially because the main project institutions, BMDC
and OTM, have now evolved in new institutions that appear to have lost all project archives and
institutional memory.



14
Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
Accountants Trained at the professional level
Name of Trainee             Enterprise/Agency       Level of performance of
trainee
Sidi Mohamed Ould Dah            SOMIR                     Excellent
Sarr Demba N'Gouma               SOMITEL                   Excellent
Sidibe Aguibou                   SONOLEC                   Excellent
Dion Moussa Hamady               CIPROCHIMIE               Good
Sall Fatou                       COMAUNAM                  Good
Ba Allassane Adama               PHARMARIM                 Very good
Niang Amadou                     B.P.                      Very good
Mohamed O'Nouh                   SOMAREM                   Satisfactory
Kane Amadou Lamine               COGITREM                  Good intern
Brahim Ould Maouloud             S.T.P.N.                  Satisfactory
Ba Oumar                         SOCOMETAL                 Satisfactory
Didi O'Ebnou                     SOMECOMPT                 Satisfactory
Diop Madoune                     SOCOGIM                   Satisfactory
Kaber O'Cheikh                   EMEL                      Satisfactory
Camara Souleymane                C.E.M                     Satisfactory



15
Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
Accountants Trained at the Assistant Level (Beginners)
Name of Trainee             Enterprise/Agency       Level of performance
of trainee
Mohamed Ahid O'Sidina           E.C.T.                     Excellent work
Sgaira Mint Kedeye              SMAR                       Satisfactory
Ahmedou O'Med Abder             MAOA                       Satisfactory
Fatimetou M'Boydiya             BEMOP                      Very good
Mohamed Yahya                   PHARMARIM                  Very good
Mohamed El Hacen                SOMIPEX                    Good
Cheikhne Mohamedou              PROJECT EDUCATION    Satisfactory
Mohamed O'Sidi                  SMAR                       Good
Mohamed O'Hanin                 B.M.D.C.                   Satisfactory
Salamata Sow                    SCETA                      Good
BS Amaidou Cire                 SNEL                       Good
Aissata Alassane                ETS MARITIMES              Good
Diagana Walie                   MAURIFISC                  Satisfactory
Aminetou M'HAmoud               SOMAT                      Good
Aicha M'Markou                  E.C.T.                     Satisfactory
Mohamed O'Amar                  STAF                       Satisfactory
M'Bodj Oumar                    SNEL                       Satisfactory
Demba Isse Diagana              ECOMAT                     Satisfactory
Varraha Saika                   SOMEB                      Good
Sy Mariem                       E.C.T.                     Satisfactory
Cissoko Yava                    MAURIFISC                  Good
Diop El Hadj Yaya               AIR AFRIQUE                Satisfactory
Peya Gueye                      AFFAIRES SOCIALES          Good






16
MAURITANIA
PROJECT COMPLETIION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL AND ARTISANAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1572-MAU)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Borrower has not provided a Part II.






17
MAURITANIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL AND ARTISANAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1572-MAU)
PART ITH. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A.    Related Bank Credits
Credit Title        Purpose              Year          Status        Comments
of approval
Rural and Urban     Creation and
Development project  Expansion of SMEs   1979          Closed        None
B.    Proiect Timetable
Item                Date                 Date                 Date
Planned             Revised              Actual
Identification                                                       01/83
Preparation                                                          02/83
Appraisal                  07/83                03/84               04/84
Negotiations               04/84                01/85               02/85
Board Approval             04/84                01/85                03/85
Credit signature                                                     05/85
Credit Effectiveness                                                 02/86
Credit Closing                                  12/91                12/91



18
C.    Credit Disbursements
Estimated          Actual              % Actual
at SAR             of Estimate
FY 86
I            640
II           1240               613                 49.4
FY 87
I            1840               795                 43.2
H            2640                1120               42.4
FY 88
I            3440                1411               41.0
H            4040                1936               47.9
FY 89
I            4390                2047               46.6
II           4650               2177                46.8
FY 90
I            4850               2334                48.1
n            5050                2367               46.9
FY 91
l            5250                2419               46.1
H            5400               2478                45.9
FY 92
I            5400               2536                47.0
II           5400               2531 a!             46.9



19
D.    Project Costs and Financing
Local       Foreign             Total        (%)
US$ 000's
1. Line of Credit
IDA                            3,800       3,800            40
FND                            3,400       3,400            36
SP.Sponsors         1.90        400        2.               24
Sub-total           1,900      7,600       9,500           100
2. Assistance to BMDC
IDA                    110       320         430            81
BMDC                  lK                     100           _9
Sub-total             210        320         530           100
3. Assistance to OTM      _          _
IDA                    145       315         460           100
4. Training of Accountants
IDA                    42        268         310            70
(of which PPF)       (25)      (115)       (140)
CFPP                  130                   -I30            3
Sub-total             172        268         440           100
5. Technical Assistance
to Ministry of Industry
IDA                              250         250           100
Total Project Financing
IDA                   297      4,953        5250            47
FND                            3,400        3,400           30
SP sponsors         1,900        400       2,300            21
BMDC                  100                    100             1
CFPP                  130                    130            1
Total               2,427      8,753       11,180          100



20
Covenant     Subject                            Deadline for
Implementation
Credit Agreement
Section 3.02        Submission of TORs for             August 15, 1985      Complied with
(i) and (ii)        TA to Ministry of Indust.
Submission of Consultants         December 31, 1986   Complied with
reports
Section 3.03        IDA and GOM to exchange                                 Complied with
views prior to modifications
of BMDC's statutes
Section 3.04        Procurement procedures                                  Complied with
acceptable to IDA
Section 4.01 (a)    Ministry of Indust.                                     Complied with
and (b)             to maintain records and
accounts and submit
to IDA
Section 4.01 (c)    Ministry of Indust.                                     Complied with
to maintain records
and accounts for SOE
Section 4.02 (a)    OTM and CFPP to maintain                                Complied with
adequate records and accounts                          for CFPP, not
for OTM
Section 4.02 (b)    Submission of audits        No later than               Complied with
for CFPP and OTM           9 months after              for CFPP, not for
year end                    OTM
Section 4.02 (c)    Maintain records and accounts                           Complied with
for CFPP and OTM SOEs
Section 4.03        GOM to reimburse BMDC    Dec. 31, 1984                  Complied with
for unpaid loans guaranteed
by State
Section 4.04 (a)    GOM to carry out a review    June 30, 1985              Complied with
of the interest rates
Section 4.04 (b)    Review by IDA and GOM       Dec. 31, 1986               Complied with
of the study on interest
and on banking system
Section 4.05        GOM to reschedule OTM       October 31, 1985            Complied with



21
debt to Social Security
and to banks
Section 4.06 (a)   Insurance for CFPP                                    Complied with
and OTM goods and equipments
Section 4.06 (b)   CFPP and OTM to conduct affairs                       Complied with
with sound practice and adequately                   for CFPP, not
maintain equipments                                  for OTM
Project Agreement
Section 3.01        BMDC to maintain adequate                            Complied with
records and accounts
Section 3.02 (a)    BMDC to submit audited    No later than              Complied with
accounts                  9 months after             until 1986
year end
Section 3.02 (b)   BMDC to maintain records   Until 1 year               Not complied
and accounts for TA       after closing              with, BMDC is
and sub-projects financed  date                      being liquidated
by the Project
Section 3.03       BMDC to maintain acceptable                           BMDC is being
financial ratios                                     liquidated
Section 3.04       BMDC not to incur debt     Same as above
over the amount required
to maintain acceptable
debt/equity ratio
Section 3.06       BMDC to protect itself     Same as above
from exchange rate losses



22
E. Use Of Bank Resources
1. Staff inputs
Project cycl               Planed               Actual
Staff/Weeks         Staff/Weeks
FY 83
Project preparation                             7.2
FY 84
Project Appraisal                               30.2
FY 85
Project Appraisal and
Negotiations                                    33.4
Supervision                                     0.5
FY 86
Project Supervision                              13.8
FY 87
Project Supervision                              11.7
FY 88
Project Supervision                             6.5
FY 89
Project Supervision                             4.0
FY 90
Project Supervision                             4.1
FY 91
Project Supervision                              1.8
FY 92
Project Supervision                             2.1
FY 93
PCR                                             8.9
TOTAL                              124.6



23
2. Missions
Date             N  of  Staff Days        Specialization   Performance      Type of Problems
Persons in field                          rating
July 85          1       8                Operations       2                 BMDC's portfolio arrears
Officer                           OTM's take over by Le Tapis
Dec. 86          1       4                                 2/3              BMDC's financial siuation
deteriorated
Mar. 87          1       7                                 2/3               BMDC's merge with FND
Jul. 87          2       14                                2/3               BMDC's financial situation and merger
Feb. 90          1       4                   N             3                 Cancellation of project sought



