Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Reort No. P-3971-MAU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 5.4 MILLION
TO TEE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR AN
LNDUSTRIAL AND ARTISAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 5, 1985
This jOCmnent has a restricted distibuom and may be used by recipients oly in the peonasce of
their offid subes. Ds contes may s oherwie be didosed wid""* World Bank atoriation.  I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  -  Mauritanian Ouguiya (UM)
US$1            -  UM 8O
Umi            -  US$0.0125
US$1            -  SDRs 1.0256
SDR 1          -  US$0.9749
MEASURES
1m2       -  10.76 sq ft
lkm       -   0.62 mile
lkm2      -   0.38 sq. miles
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCM       -    Central Bank of Mauritania ("Banque Centrale de
Mauritanie")
BNDC      -    Mauritanian Bank for Development and Commerce ("Banque
Hauritanienne pour le Developpement et le Commerce")
CEPI      -    Center for Studies and Industrial Promotion("Centre
d'Etudes et de Promotion Industrielle")
CIFPB     -    International Center for Training in Banking
("Centre International de Formation a la Profession
Bancaire")
CFPP      -    Training and Professional Improvement Center ("Centre de
Formation et de Perfectionnement Professionels")
CGEM      -    Confederation of Hauritanian Employers ("Confederation
Gfnerale des Employeurs Mauritaniens")
CNI       -    Niational Investment Commission ("Commission Nationale des
Investissements")
FND       -    National Development Fund ("Fonds National de
Developpement")
lIE       -    Mauritanian Company for Industry and Equipment
("Mauritanienne des Industries et Equipements")
0TM       -    Mauritanian Carpet Bureau ("Office du Tapis Maurita-ien")
SOGOGIM   -    Company for Apartment Build Lg Construction and
Management ("Societe de Const uction et de Gestion
TmmobiliAere")
STB       -    Tunisian Barking Company ("Socifti Tunisienne de Banque")
UMOA      -    West African Monetary Union ("Union Monetaire Ouest
Africaine")
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCLICL USE ONLY
MAURITANIA
INDUSTRIAL AND ARTISAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
'lorrower:                Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Beneficiary Agencies:     Mauritanian Bank for Development and Commerce
(BMDC)
Mauritanian Carpet Bureau (OTM), and
Training and Professional Improvement Center
(CFPP)
Ministry of Industry
Amount:                   SDR 5.4 million (US$5.25 million)
Terms:                    Standard
Onlending Terms:           1. US$3.8 million of the credit would be relent by
the Government to BMDC for 20 years, including 5
years of grace, at 7Z interest per annum. The
standard IDA commitment fee of 0.5% would apply to
BMDC. BMDC would onlend to final borrowers at an
interest rate of 11% per annum. The Government
would bear the foreign exchange risk against a 1%
per annum fee paid by the final borrowers in
addition to the interest rate.
2. Of the balance of US$1.45 million, US$1.2
million would be passed on by the Government as
grants to (i) RMDC (US$430,000) for financing
technical assistance and training; (ii) OTM
(US$460,000) for support to artisan carpet weavers;
(iii) CFPP (US$310,000) for accounting training.
The remaining US$250,000 would be used by the
Ministry of Industry to finance an industrial
sector review.
Project Description:      The project would comprise five components,
(a) A line of credit to finance private small and
medium enterprises through BMDC.
(b) Technical assistance to further strengthen
BMDC's institutional capacity.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. is contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(c) Assistance to OTM to train and equip 300
additional artisan carpet weavers and to
provide them with technical advice and
marketing assistance.
(d) Assistance to CFPP to train accountants working
for the corporate sector.
(e) Assistance to the Ministry of Industry to carry
out a review of the industrial sector relating
to both policy and institutional issues.
Benefits and Risks:        The benefits of the project would be (i) at the
enterprise level to help create or expand about 20
small- and medium-scale enterprises which would
employ about 750 additional workers and to create
about 50 carpet weaving workshops for 300 additional
artisans; and (ii) at the institutional level to
further strengthen BMDC as a financial intermediary
for industrial financing and to build up OTM's
capability to develop and support artisan carpet
weaving as well as to improve the accounting
standards of the corporate sector. In addition, the
project would assist the Government in carrying out
a review of the policies and institutional set-up
affecting the industrial sector. The main risk
arising from the organizational weakness of some
project institutions (e.g. OTM, CFPP), would be
minimized by technical assistance included in the
project and by regular IDA supervision.
Project Cost                                   Local    Foreign       Total
-- - US$ 000's --
Line of Credit                                  1,900     7,600       9,500
Technical Assistance and Training to BNDC         210       320         530
Technical Assistance, Training and
Equipment to OTM                              145       315         460
Training of Accountants                           172       268         440
Assistance to the Ministry of Industry            _         250         250
Total                                      2,427      8 753      11i180
Finaucing Plan
IDA                                               297     4,953       5,250
FND                                                       3,400       3,400
Subproject sponsors                             1,900       400       2,300
EMC                                               100       -           100
CFPP                                              130       -           130
Total                                      2.427      8 752      11.180



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91
________-     US   OOO's
Annual            1,240   1,400   1,400      610     400      200
Cumulative        1,240   2,640   4,040   4,650   5,050   5,250
Economic Rate of Return:  NA
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 5359-MAU, March 1, 1985
M   Map:                  IBRD 18714



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL AND ARTISAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Islamic Republic of Mauritania for SDR 5.4
million (US$5.25 million equivalent) to help financ. an Industrial and
Artisan Development project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Islamic Republic of Mauritania - Recent
Economic Developments and External Capital Requirements" (2479a-MAU)
dated June 4, 1979, has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
Since then, a number of missions have visited Mauritaria to monitor the
economic and financial situation and prospects of the economy. Updated
country data are given in Annex I.
The Land and its People
3.        Mauritania bears many of the characteristics of the "Least
Developed Countries"' in terms of its physical and human resources,
despite a level of per capita income (US$460 in 1983) somewhat higher
than that of the world's lowest. Three-quarters of the country is
desert or semi-desert, the principal economic activity being livestock
herding.  Crop farming is generally limited to the sub-Saharan zone in
the south, where rainfall is nonetheless sparse and irregular. Pockets
of modern economic activity are found in the mining complex of Zouerate,
the fishing center of Nouadhibou and the administrative capital of
Nouakchott. These centers are geographically separated from the
agricultural zones, and there is little economic interaction between
them and the rural sector.
4.        The three centers of modern economic activity account for a
major share of the country's overall output, while livestock and crop
farming, which support as much as 70 percent of the population, account
on average for about 25 percent of total output.  The mass of the
population (total 1.6 million) suffers from an extremely low standard of
living, as reflected in key social indicators: life expectancy at birth
is estimated at 45 years, infant mortality is 132 per 1,000, only one in
every three children of school-age attends primary school, and less than
20 percent of the population is literate in either of the two official
languages, Arabic and French.



-2-
Past Economic Performance
5.        Led by increases in iron ore production, Mauritania's GDP
sustained an average annual growth rate of 8 percent during the 1960's.
The economy experienced a sharp deceleration in growth in the
mid-1970's, however, and a period of marked financial instability in the
latter part of the decade. Principal factors were reduced world demand
for iron ore, on which the country had been dependent for 70-80 percent
of its export earnings, and the effects of severe and repeated drought
on output in the rural sector. These factors were compounded by
prolonged military conflict in the Western Sahara and a poorly conceived
investment policy. The investment program was stepped up in the
mid-1970's to rates approaching 40 percent of GDP with the support of
heavy inflows of foreign assistance, particularly from OPEC sources and
commercial lenders. These resources were used principally to finance
the nationalization of the mining sector, ambitious projects in
transport infrastructure and a few large industrial ventures which were
to prove unviable.
6.        The effects of depressed iron ore earnings, drought and a
generally weak record of economic management in the mid-1970's brought
the country to financial crisis by 1977. The Government's current
expenditure requirements that year reached a level nearly double its
receipts, producing a Treasury deficit equivalent to 16 percent of GDP.
On the balance of payments the country suffered a severe drain on its
reserves despite massive inflows of foreign grants and loans. The
Government which took power in 1978 immediately adopted a stabilization
program which called for rescheduling more than $200 million in debt
service obligations, tight controls on the Government wage bill and a
reinforced tax collection effort. The growth of the Government's
current budgetary expenditure was curbed, and the earlier drain on the
country's foreign reserves was arrested. Modest boosts in iron ore and
fisheries production and the stimulus of a new investment effort
temporarily enabled the economy to pull away from the stagnation which
had characterized it since 1975 and to enjoy a brief three-year period
of growth averaging 4 percent per annum during the period 1979-81.
7.        The improved performance of the economy could not be
sustained, however, in the face of a fallback in mining production and
the recurrence of drought. Iron ore production fell by more than 20
percent in 1982-83 to a level only 65 percent of that registered 10
years earlier. With rainfall only about 20 percent of normal levels in
the 1983/84 season, the livestock herd suffered major losses, and
cereals production met less than 10 percent of total demand. Aggregate
output of the economy fell by 2.2 percent in 1982, rose by 6.6 percent
in 1983 (due to distress sales and offtake in the livestock sector and
other exceptional factors) and stagnated in 1984.  In the absence of
sustained growth, per capita incomes today are essentially unchanged in
real terms from those of a decade ago.



-3-
8.        The failure of the mining sector to underpin growth of the
economv in the 1980's marks a major reversal of expectations at the
outset of the current Five-Year Development Plan period, 1981-85. On
the assumption of gradual recovery in the world steel industry and a
consequent near-doubling of Mauritania's ore production, mining was
expected to resume it's role as the economy's motor of growth through at
least the first half of the decade and to ensure the domestic resources
to effect the development strategy adopted for the 1980's: to eventually
shift the base of the economy from its exhaustible mineral resources to
alternative, renewable sources of growth - irrigated agriculture,
livestock and fisheries.  The need to ensure future mining capacity and
at the same time to diversify the economy has resulted in Mauritania's
maintaining its record for some of the highest rates of investment
registered among developing countries. Gross capital formation averaged
$240 million annuallv through a peak period, 1981-83, or 35 percent of
GDP. Continuing high levels of investment have reflected the completion
of large projects in the transport sector begun in the late 1970's and,
simultaneously, the execution of the $500 million Guelbs mining project,
Gorgol Irrigation and other major projects undertaken in the framework
of the 1981-85 public investment program. Additionally, a spurt of
private sector investment in fisheries was made in the early 1980s in
response to Government initiatives to promote national exploitation of
these formerly foreign-controlled resources.
9.        Given the performance of the mining sector and drought-induced
shortfalls in rural production, Mauritania's inability to maintain
satisfactory rates of growth have sharply aggravated its exceptional
dependence on foreign resources to meet consumption as well as
investment requirements. Whereas the external current account deficit
had been held in check at an average 22 percent of CDP in the 1979-81
period and the overall balance of payments maintained in approximate
equilibrium, Mauritania's external position has substantially weakened
since 1982. Despite a strong rise in earnings from fish exports
(estimated at $135 million in 1984 closely rivalling earnings from iron
ore of $150 million), the current account deficit expanded to an average
33 percent of GDP in 1982-83.   Though in part the result of
exceptionally heavy foreign-financed mining investment, the expansion of
the deficit was unmatched by a corresponding increase in capital
inflows, forcing a massive drawdown of Central Bank reserves (cumulative
$77 million in 1982-83). In 1984 the payments crisis was modestly eased
by a decline in cereals imports, replaced by exceptional receipts of
food aid, and a reduction in other general imports induced by a downward
adjustment of the ouguiya exchange rate of 19 percent in relation to the
US dollar.   Further losses in official reserves were nonetheless
incurred (US$33 million), and by end-1984 payments arrears on external
medium and long-term debt had mounted to an estimated $95 million.
The Recovery Program and the Current Outlook
10.       Mauritania's balance of payments and budgetary situation thus
remains extremely weak, requiring continuing adjustment measures over



-4-
the medium term and heavy support from abroad in the form of financial
and technical assistance and food aid. The gradual depreciation of the
ouguiya during 1984 was one of a series of recovery measures in the
areas of exchange rate and price policy, fiscal administration, the
public enterprise sector, the banking system and the public investment
program towards reducing external and domestic imbalances to sustainable
levels and maximizing the modest prospects for the economy in the medium
term.   Such measures are being pursued in the context of the
Government's Economic and Financial Recovery Program. In January 1985
the Government reached agreement with the IMF on a proposed Stand-By
arrangement for SDR 12 million.  In accordance with this agreement, it
undertook in February 1985 a further 19 percent effective devaluation of
the ouguiya in domestic currency terms and increases in cereals prices
at both producer and consumer levels ranging from 12-50 percent. The
Government also agreed to raise interest rates to levels which are
positive in real terms and to restrict credit expansion. The IMF
Stand-By would be put in place following successful negotiations with
Arab and Western bilateral creditors to fill the projected 1985
financing gap of $200 million.
11.       Successful implementation of the Government's Economic and
Financial Recovery Program, supported by the international community, is
critical to the medium-term outlook for the economy. With disciplined
economic management and well-conceived measures to exploit Mauritania's
limited resources, modest but sustained growth in output is possible.
Rural sector production should recover moderatelv from drought-induced
lows of 1984. Although international iron ore markets are not expected
to recover significantly through the 1980's, it is possible for SNIM to
continue to improve the cost effectivenss of its operations. In the
livestock sector, some time will be needed to reconstruct the herd
following the heavy mortality and accelerated offtake over the past two
years. In the period ahead, irrigation development will 4ncreasingly
contribute to food supplies, even though cereals production will remain
highly vulnerable to the effects of drought. In the fisheries sector,
now a major source of foreign exchange and budgetary revenue, growth
could remain strong for another 3-4 years, but would then level out if
resources are not to be over-exploited. Under favorable assumptions,
overall growth of the economy through the remainder of the 1980's could
average 3.5 percent annually, or 1.0 percent ahead of the projected rate
of population growth.
12.       Mauritania's longer term d2velopment strategy must take into
account the country's very limited natural resource base and prospects
for its supporting rising standards of living.   Compounding the
implications of overall population growth is the fundamental economic
and social change taking place throughout Mauritania as a result of a
decade of severe drought and attendant rural emigration. The growth of
Mauritania's urban centers, at some of the most rapid rates registered
in West Africa, is clear evidence of the need to give high priority to
those sectors such as light industry which offer maximum scope for
expanded income and employment opportunities.



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITANIA
13.       As of FY84 the Bank Group has had 19 operations in Mauritania
for a total of US$212.6 million. Of these, two are Bank loans for
mining operations (US$66 million for MIFERMA in 1960, and US$60 million
to SNIM in 1979 for the Guelbs Iron Ore Project). The other 17 are IDA
credits totalling US$86.9 million. Of the IDA operations, five have
been in the transport sector, six in the rural sector, two for
education, two have been technical assistance projects for economic
planning and there have been separate projects for urban and rural
development and petroleum exploration.   IFC has no operations in
Mauritania.   The Bank Group's presence in Mauritania was fairly
substantial in the early 1970's, and in 1970-72 it was the third largest
a             donor providing about 18% of Mauritania's external capital assistance.
Since then, external financial assistance to Mauritania from other
sources has increased rapidly and at present, the Bank Group's share in
Mauritania's external capital assistance amounts to about 8.0%.
14.       Until the mid-seventies Bank Group strategy for Mauritania
focussed on financing traditional projects mainly in agriculture,
transport and education. Since the mid-seventies this assistance has
been broadened increasingly to address the institutional weaknesses of
country economic management, investment planning and project
implementation which h..d manifested themselves during the last decade.
In 1978. the Association assisted the Government in designing a
financial and economic rehabilitation program for which the first
Technical Assistance Project (FY77) provided the expertise. Assistance
for the formulation of macro-economic policy, a medium and long-term
development strategy, and investment programs is being continued under a
Second Technical Assistance Project (FY82), which is also helping to
develop a pipeline of feasible investment projects other than mining
(iron ore) on which the country can no longer solely count for sustained
economic growth. The objective of this assistance is to institute a
much more thorough evaluation of investments than occurred in the past
especially to avoid large, capital intensive projects with low
productivity and unsatisfactory rates of return. Priority will now be
given to projects aiming at the rehabilitation and maintenance of
existing infrastructure, and encouraging only those new investments that
demonstratively promise a high rate of return.
15.       Following a comprehensive review of the public sector
enterprises financed under the first Technical Assistance project,
assistance was also provided to the Interministerial Committee for the
Rehabilitation of Public Enterprises in the preparation of a medium-term
rehabilitation program for the public enterprise sector. This program
sets forth measures to increase the efficiency of the existing
enterprises through selective actions of rehabilitation, privatization
and liquidation and outlines rehabilitation programs for several of
these enterprises including actions on pricing policies, personnel
adjustments, streamlining of management and appropriate maintenance of
equipment.  In support of this program a Public Enterprise Technical



-6-
Assistance and Rehabilitation Project is scheduled to be presented to
the Board of Executive Directors during FY85.
16.       To back-up the Government's efforts to address Mauritania's
severe balance of payment problems, tight fiscal situation and its
Inability to service its public debt problems, our country and economic
sector work has been intensified and will include sector papers on
fisheries, education, energy and urban development. Provided that the
IMF Standby arrangement is approved and satisfactory progress is made in
the implementation of economic recovery measures, a Consultative Group
meeting will be organized to obtain donor support for the Recovery
Program.
17.       Professional training of Go-ernment officials remains an
essential ingredient of IDA assistance to overcome the acute shortages
of trained local staff at all levels, which constitute a major
difficulty in project implementation. Through project aid and technical
assistance, efforts have been made to strengthen vocational training for
the modern industrial sector and farmers' training, in parallel with
broadening access to primary education. Nonetheless, shortages of
pupils completing secondary and vocational schools with satisfactory
results remain critical and explain the low productivity of employees in
the modern sector. As a consequence technical assistance should continue
to be an important part of project financing.
18.       Assistance to the education sector is being provided under the
Second Education Project (FY82) which aims at expanding access to
primary education, improving vocational training in the modern
industrial and commercial sectors, and training of lower secondary
school teachers to replace a substantial number of foreign technical
assistants on expensive contract basis. Future IDA assistance should
continue to focus on the need to reduce technical assistance personnel.
The Government recently requested the Association to assist the
Government Education Reform Committee in the review of key sectoral
issues, a clear definition of overall long term objectives, the
formulation of policies, the preparation of an investment program to
increase efficiency of education and training, and the reduction in
recurrent costs to lower the large share of education (30%) in the
national budget. Additional sector work is being initiated for this
purpose.
19.       Assistance  to  agriculture,  especially  irrigation  and
livestock, will be continued since this sector is still considered
Mauritania's principal source of growth over the longer term, despite
its weak base and extreme vulnerability to drought, and the high cost of
investments caused by difficult physical conditions, limited transport
infrastructure, and the high level of technical assistance needed.
Through the Second Technical Assistance to the Rural Sector project



- 7 -
(FY83), rural institutions will be strengthened and efficient incentives
developed by addressing such fundamental issues as input and product
pricing, subsidies and land tenure. A Small Scale Irrigation project
(FY85) will continue IDA assistance to the on-going irrigation program
and finance the establishment of 75 command areas of 20-25 ha each,
emphasizing the participation of beneficiaries in construction,
maintenance and operation to keep investment costs down. A Second
Livestock project (FY86), would improve livestock production, strengthen
services and - based on encouraging experience in Niger and Mali -
establish pastoral cooperatives on an experimental basis with grazing
rights allocated to identifiable land areas.  This would enhance
renewable resource management through greater involvement by the
pastoralists themselves. In the fisheries sector, wbich could be an
X             important source of future growth, a sector study has been prepared to
assist the Government in the elaboration of a sector strategy. The
objective is to enable Mauritania to capture a larger share of the
benefits currently reaped by foreign trawlers operating along the coast.
Once this strategy is in place, a fisheries project could be considered.
20.       In the energy sector, our assistance consists of supporting
the Government's search for hydrocarbons through the Petroleum
Exploration Promotion Project (FY82) and carrying out an energy
assessment to recommend strategies and policies aimed at improving
energy demand management, develop indigenous energy resources,
strengthen institutions, and identify specific areas for follow-up
technical assistance, based on which a future operation could be
developed. The Association is also helping Mauritania to evolve an
overall strategy for the urban sector.   Urbanization has grown
dramatically in recent years while appropriate measures to adjust to
this development have not been taken. Sector work is being carried out
to gather detailed knowledge of the urban requirements and to examine
the wider urban policy issues in the context of Mauritania's overall
development aspects. This sector work may lead to the design of an
urban project later in this decade. To assist in Mauritania's efforts
to diversify employment and sources of income, financing was provided
to encourage private enterprise through the Mauritanian Bank for
Development and Commerce (Credit 888-MAU) and to promote artisanal
carpet-weaving activities. - The proposed project would further pursue
these objectives and through studies develop appropriate policies for
improving subsector performance and possibilities of further expansion
of the manufacturing sector.
PART III - THE SECTORAL ENVIRONMENT
A.   The Industrial Sector
21.       Structure.  The  industrial sector  (artisanal activities
excluded), whose share of the country's GDP at factor cost and in real
terms was 20.8% in 1983, is dominated by mining operations. In 1983,



-8-
the mainly government-owned National Company for Mining Industries which
produces iron ore employed 34% of the industrial sector's labor force
of about 18,000 and contributed to 50X of its output. The same year the
construction industry, consisting of one government-owned company and 31
private enterprises, mostly small, whose total fixed assets amounted to
about UM 290 million, accounted for 27% of output and 54Z of employment
in the industrial sector.
22.      Manufacturing is still embryonic.   Although the sector
received 35% of investment in the industrial sector in 1983, its 30
enterprises accounted for only 12% of its labor force and for 23Z of its
output. Of the 30 manufacturing enterprises in operation that year, two
- a sugar refinery and a steel mill - were government-owned. Six of the
28 private firms received financing under the first IDA line of credit
to BMDC (Cr. 88B-MAU). The production of food and beverages, household
chemicals and construction materials accounted for about 80% of total
private investment and 83% of the employment that it generated.
23.       Performance.  Mining output which has declined from 1980 to
1983 before returning in 1984 to the 1980 level is not expected to
increase significantly in the next several years. The manufacturing
sector is still in its infancy and handicapped by several factors, in
particular, the inadequacy of infrastructure and human skills. In 1983,
available information would indicate a low capacity utilization of below
50%. However, some improvement in these respects is in sight. In the
Nouakchott area a new port is presently under construction; a new power
plant is expected to start operations in 1988 and the rehabilitation of
power and water utilities, to be financed under the IDA Public
Enterprises Rehabilitation Project, is expected to increase the water
supply by about 50% by 1987. Since the late 1970's, the government's
Training and Professional Improvement Center ("Centre de Formation et de
Perfectionnement Professionel" - CFPP) has been providing training to
public and private sector employees, especially in accounting (paras 60
and 61), but it does not have the means to address the overall needs of
the industrial sector. Furthermore, in the specific area of accounting,
the ILO assistance to CFPP, financed by the IDA Second Education project
(Cr. 1214-MAU), was phased out in March 1983. In order to support
Government's efforts to improve the management of existing enterprises,
the training of accountants already employed in private and public
enterprises will be financed under the proposed project (paras 66 and
67).
24.       Industrial Policies. The growth of industrial activities
(mining excluded) on which the Government largely relies to diversify
the economy, is constrained by the limited resource base of the country
and by the small domestic market fragmented over a vast territory.
However, there is potential for further development, in particular, for
the production of goods whose high transport costs favor the domestic
producer (e.g. building materials), or which provide inputs to, or
process the outputs of fishing and agriculture. In addition, the influx



-9-
of refugees into the towns has provided a source of labor which, witb
some encouragement and training, could be used in light industry. The
Government's policy for the industrial sector, outlined in the 1981 -
1985 Fourth Development Plan, therefore emphasizes the prorotion of
small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises.  Rec.gnizing, however,
the need to reform its own enterprises first, the Government is
confining its role to the rehabilitation of public enterprises, leaving
the development of liiht industry to private initiative.
25.       Although the 1979 version of the Investment Code was improved
on IDA's recommendations during the first project, it is still biased in
favor of large-scale investment. Only investments over UM 10 million
(or about US$125,000) are eligible for such benefits as exemption from
import duties and income tax and other advantages. The Government has
accordingly agreed to IDA's suggestion that the UM 10 million minimum be
abolished, a step that would reduce the bias against small industrial
investments and instead, encour-ge them. This measure has been approved
by the Council of Ministers and :ts enactment by the Military Council
would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01 (d), draft
Development Credit Agreement).
26.       Mauritania which belongs  to the West African Economic
Community and to the Economic Comunity of West African States cannot,
according to the rules of these institutions, restrict imports from
fellow member countries. Neither does it officially limit imports from
other countries. However, besides a high tarif protection which ranges
from 56% to 104% for industrial products, the Government has since 1982
discouraged imports which could threaten existing industries by not
granting relevant requests for import licences.   With respect to
pricing, the Government administers a system of controls which allows
free marketing of a few luxury products, sets specified margins over
costs for other products, and sets the prices of about 30 primary
products.
27.       The Government has agreed to IDA's view, shared by a
UNIDO-financed study of the industrial sector completed in October 1984,
that excessive protection coupled with price control may further
increase price distortions and misallocation of resources besides
weakening the efficiency of existing enterprises. In order to help the
Government remedy this situation the proposed project would finance
technical assistance to the Ministry of Industry which would carry out
an industrial sector review with a view to establishing an adequate
industrial data base, and identifying the necezsary changes in the
incentives system (Section 3.02 and Schedule 2 para E (1) respectively,
draft Development Credit Agreement).
28.       Promotional  Institutions.   Two  institutions  and  two
commissions have responsibilities in connection with industrial
development. The Center for Studies and Industrial Promotion ("Centre
d'Etudes et de Promotion Industrielle"- CEPI), within the Ministry of
Industry, is intended to erovide assistance to new entrepreneurs at all



- 10 -
stages of the project cycle, to carry out feasibility studies, appraise
new projects, and process applications for benefits under the Investment
Code. A private institution, the Confederation of Mauritanian Employers
("Confederation Generale des Employeurs" - CGEM) assists new private
investors. The aim of the National Commission for Industry chaired by
the Minister of Industry, is to improve the environment for industries
and thus to encourage industrial development. The National Investment
Commission ("Commission Nationale des Investissements" - CNI), chaired
by the Minister of Plan, meets periodically to decide whether projects
presented by new investors, are eligible for benefits under the
Investment Code.
29.       Although on IDA's recommendation the role of CEPI and of the
CNI has been redefined in order to shorten the review of projects
seeking the benefits of the Investment Code, this process is still
cumbersome. In addition, the promotional institutions have so far
achieved very little in promoting industrial development because of the
scarcity of suitably qualified administrative and technical staff, and
more importantly, the lack of a clear definition of their roles that
would avoid duplication and make the best use of the available staff.
At the Government's request, the assistance noted in para 27 would also
help (i) design an adequate institutional set up for industrial
promotion, define the respective roles of CEPI, CGEM, CNI and of the two
development banks and propose institutional cooperation arrangements
between them; (ii) formulate an action plan for the reorganization of
CEPI, including a possible participation of private entrepreneurs in
CEPI's ownership and management and define its needs for technical
assistance and training; and (iii) standardize project appraisal
procedures for all institutions involved in industrial promotion. Draft
terms of reference of this technical assistance have been agreed on.
The recommendations resulting from the technical assistance studies
would be reviewed by IDA with a view to making appropriate suggestions
for implementation (Section 3.02 (ii), draft Development Credit
Agreement).
B.   The Artisanal Sector
30.       According to Government estimates, about 49,000 artisans are
engaged in the production of ordinary consumer goods and art objects.
The number of male artisans has remained constant for many years. In
the meantime, increasing numbers of women have entered this field of
production, and there are now about 33,000 women artisans. Although
artisans form between 8 and 10% of the working population, their
contribution is estimated to be only about 0.22 of GDP and about 2% of
industrial activity, other than mining.
31.       Artisanal Sector Policies and Promotional Institutions.  In
1967, the Government took the first step towards expanding the artisanal
sector by creating "precooperatives". It envisaged to supply them with
raw materials and assist them in the organization and in the marketing



- 11 -
of cheir production, to enable them to become independent cooperatives.
Since then, all development plans have included financial support for
artisans. The fourth development plan (1981 - 1985) earmarks about US$8
million for creating an artisan village in each of the 12 Mauritanian
administrative regions to help artisans market their products.
32.       Three institutions have been set up to administer this
government assistance. Within the Ministry of Industry, the Artisan
Promotion Department helps to staff the 33 "precooperatives" that it has
created since 1967. The Mauritanian Carpet Bureau ("Office du Tapis
Mauritanien" - OTM), also under the Ministry of Industry, promotes hand
knotted carpet production with financial and technical assistance,
provided under the first IDA project, to improve the quality and
quantity of carpet production and to train weavers (paras 55 through
59).  Within the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, the Department
of Social Affairs has created about 31 women's cooperatives engaged in
weaving, embroidery and dressmaking.
33.       Achievements and Prospects.   The development of artisan
activities in Mauritania is favored by the pool of cheap refugee labor
and by a long tradition of handicrafts. Nevertheless, although the
Government has repeatedly stated its objective of developing this
sector, artisans have received very little help. To date, none of the
"precooperatives" has become an independent cooperative and only one of
the 12 artisan villages envisaged under the fourth development plan has
been created in Nouakchott. In any event, these artisan villages no
longer appear warranted because of the low level of artisanal
production. The promotional institutions are inadequately staffed, and
have received very little of the funds earmarked for them in the
development plans. The development of the sector as a whole requires
financial resources and skilled personnel beyond Mauritania's present
capacity. With the exception of the carpet weaving activity, the
prospects for the expansion of the sector appear therefore limited.
C.   The Financial Sector
34.       Institutional Setting.  In mid-1973, Mauritania withdrew from
the West African Monetary Union ("Union Monetaire Ouest Africaine" -
UQIOA), created a Central Bank ("Banque Centrale de Mauritanie" - BCN)
and introduced a new currency, the Ouguiya (UM).  Besides BCK and the
Government Post Office System ("Compte Cheques Postaux") there are five
commercial banks. A11 the banks are jointly owned by the Government and
foreign shareholders.  In all of them the Government holds, either
directly or through the Central Bank, a majority interest except for the
Arab-Lybian Bank of Mauritania, in which it owns only 49% of the share
capital-
35.       Of the five commercial banks, only the Mauritanian Bank for
Development and Commerce ("Banque Mauritanienne pour le Developpement et
le Commerce" - BMDC) (para 44 to 54) has an important development



- 12 -
banking role.  In this field it works closely with the fully
government-owned National Development Fund ("Fonds National de
Developpement" - FND) established in 1980 to finance projects in the
agriculture and fishing sectors which received little help from the
commercial banks. However, FND became also involved in industrial
financing. In order to avoid duplication in the field of industrial
development, FND and BMDC acting upon IDA's recommendation, concluded an
institutional cooperation agreement, effective since August 1984, by
which they will cofinance all industrial projects, with BNDC assuming
the lead role for projects costing less than UK 60 million (or about
US$750,000), and FND for projects above this limit.
36.       Banking  Policies.  BCM is the Government's instrument for
enforcing banking policies. To this end, BCM (i) reviews all credit
applications for local resources over UN 2 million to be financed by the
Mauritanian banks ; (ii) sets a ceiling each year on short- and
medium-term rediscountable facilities available to each individual bank;
(iii) regulates the terms and conditions of all bank credits to be
financed by local resources; and (iv) sets financial ratios that the
banks must observe.
37.       BCH does not rediscount credits whose terms exceed 8 years.
Lending rates to final borrowers range from 6% to 13% for rediscountable
credits and 10% to 15% for non-rediscountable credits, the lower rates
applying in both cases to agriculture and livestock. While interest
rates charged on non rediscountable credit are adequate, those charged
on rediscountable credits (to the productive sectors) are low compared
to the international markets and to the annual inflation rate expected
to run at about 10Z in the next 5 years. BCM's rediscount rate is 4.5%
for credits to agriculture and livestock and 6.5% for loans to all other
sectors. The spread allowed to the banks on rediscounted credit is
higher on short-term (1.5% tc 3.5%) than on medium-term credit (1% to
3Z), which may constitute a disincentive for term lending. BCE also
regulates interests paid to deposits.  These range from 5 to 9X
according to their amount and term. The structure of interest rates is
such, however, that for the same amount term deposits are paid at most
0.5% more than short term (up to one year) deposits. As part of the
conditions of the second IMF stand-by arrangement, expected to be
effective later in 1985, the Government has agreed to raise in March
1985 all interest rates by 2% . In addition, BCM will undertake a
review of the level and structure of interest rates to be completed by
June 1985.
38.       Issues.  The banking system is unable to mobilize adequate
local resources to finance the growth of credit to the economy-.
Although during the 1979-1983 period total deposits received by the
banks grew at about 20% per annum from UH 3.3 billion to about
UM 7 billion, they represented only 50% of total lending in 1983.
Because of continued restrictive credit policies siming at reducing
credit for imported consumer goods and improving the country's balance
of payments, the share of BCM financing in total credit decreased from



- 13 -
21% in 1979 to 16% in 1983.  In the meantime, the banking system
borrowed heavily abroad in order to sustain the growth of its lending,
thereby aggravating the country's foreign reserve situation. Moreover,
the banking system lacks adequate term resources for development
financing. Although the interest rates charged on non rediscountable
term credits are not low in relation to foreign credits, the country's
high indebtedness discourages potential foreign term lenders.  The
structure of interest paid to deposits does not encourage term deposits
relative to demand deposits. Still another problem - not uncommon in
developing countries - is that the Mauritanian banks have to contend
with very high portfolio arrears resulting from the economic slowdown
which started in '982 as well as from their own weak management and
inadequate experience.
39.       In recognition of these shortcomings, the Government has
commissioned a review of the banking system by the French International
Center for Training in Banking ("Centre International de Profession a la
Profession Bancaire" -CIFPB) which would include (i) an audit of all the
banks; (ii) measures for increasing their operational efficiency and for
improving their financial condition; (iii) measures for increasing the
mobilization of local and especially term resources; and (iv) the
conditions of the establishment of a financial market within which, with
the exception of a prime rate determined by BCM, the commercial banks
would be free to determine their own lending rates.  The IMF is
attempting to accelerate this banking sector study in connection with
its forthcoming standby arrangement with the country. In coordination
with the IMF, IDA will review upon their completion BCM's study of
interest rates mentioned above as well as the study of the banking
system with a view to making appropriate policy inputs (Section 4.04,
draft Development Credit Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       The project was prepared by IDA missions between December 1982
and December 1983. The appraisal took place in February-March, 1984.
Negotiations were held in Washington from February 19 to February 27,
1985 with a Mauritanian delegation led by Mr. Mohamedou Ould Michel,
Economic Advisor to the Minister of Plan. Supplementary data on the
project are provided in Annex III.  The Staff Appraisal Report No.
5359-MAU, dated March 1, 1985, is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
A.   Background
41.       The proposed project, to be financed by an IDA credit of
US$5.25 million, would comprise five components (i) a line of credit to
BMDC for financing economically and financially viable private small-



- 14 -
and medium-scale enterprises (US$3.8 million); (ii) technical assistance
to further strengthen RMDC's procedures, organization and staff
training (US$430,000'., :iii) assistance to OTM to provide technical and
marketing guidance to carpet weavers trained under the first project in
Nouakchott and to train 300 additional carpet weavers (outside
Nouakchott) and help them start commercial production (US$460,000); (iv)
assistance to CFPP to train 25 accountants employed by private and
public enterprises (US$310,000); and (v) technical assistance to the
Ministry of Industry to carry out a study aimed at improving industrial
sector policies and promotional institutions (US$250,000). The project
would build on the results, described in the following paragraphs, of
the industrial and artisanal eomponent of the previous project.
42.       The first indust  il and artisanal operation (IDA Credit
888-MAU, of US$8 million of 3ctober 1979) which will be completed in
December 1985 consists of (i) a line of credit of US$2.55 million to
BMDC to finance private small- and medium-scale industry; (ii) technical
assistance to BMDC (US$620,000); (iii) technical and financial
assistance to help OTM train about 400 artisan carpet weavers, supply
them with looms and raw materials and establish extension services to
support their commercial activity (US$1.66 million); and (iv)
feasibility studies for an industrial estate in Nouakchott and the
artisanal manufacturing of bricks made of gypsum (US$70,000).
43.       With the exception of the OTH component (paras 55 and 56),
the first operation was satisfactorily implemented. The line of credit
to BMDC (which was increased in September 1984 from US$2.1 million to
US$2.55 million) is fully committed and 95Z disbursed as of end
February 1985. It has financed 9 subprojects creating about 260 new
jobs.  The technical assistance to BIDC helped build-up the appraisal
capability of its Development Department and improve its data
processing. Under the OTH component, it was originally envisaged that
400 carpet weavers should have completed their training and started
commercial production by June 1985, but so far only slightly more than
one half have done so. The two feasibility studies were carried out
satisfactorily. Although the conclusions of the study concerning the
establishment of an industrial estate in Nouakchott were positive, the
implementation of such an estate should await the availability of
adequate supply of water and energy to this city, expected by 1987-1988.
Following the study on artisanal manufacturing of gypsum bricks, the
construction of buildings using this material has started on an
experimental basis. This experiment has not yet however confirmed the.
viability of the process.
B.   The Project Institutions
1.  The Mauritanian Bank for Development and Commerce - BMDC
44.       BMDC, originally named Mauritanian Development Bank ("Banque
Mauritanienne de Developpement") was established in 1961 as a



- 15 -
development bank by the Government of Mauritania and the French Central
Fund for Economic Cooperation ("Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique" - CCCE).  In 1974 it was authorized to conduct the full
range of banking activities, was renamed the Mauritanian Bank for
Development and Caumerce and received management assistance from the
Tunisian Banking Company ("Socite Tunisienne de Banque" - STB) which
bought the shares previously owned by CCCE. BMDC's share capital of
UK 80 million is owned by the Government (76%), STB (20%) and BCH (4%).
45.       During the 1979 - 1983 perlid, the expansion of BMDC's
operations more than doubled its assets.  In addition, BMDC, which
incurred losses until 1979 has been profitable since 1980.  BHDC's
outstanding portfolio increased from UM 1.12 billion to UM 1.97 billion
at an average annual rate of 15%.  Short-term and term lending rose by
about 18% and 10% respectively per year. Between 1980 and 1983 term
lending to the industrial sector grew steadily at an average rate of 26%
per annum, while credits for housing construction, public utilities and
agriculture decreased. Within this sector, as of September 1984, BMDC
had financed 17 enterprises (including 9 under the first IDA Credit) and
held equity investments amounting to UM 23.5 million in two enterprises.
46.       quality of Portfolio. As a result of the economic slowdown and
BMDC's inadequate procedures, but mainly because of the lack of a legal
tribunal with specific jurisdiction over delinquent debtors, the quality
of BMDC's portfolio declined until 1982. By the end of that year, its
arrears were very high, amounting to UM 913 million or 53% of total
outstanding portfolio. In 1983, BMDC took advantage of new measures
enacted by the government on IDA's recommendation, including the
creation of a special court to deal with delinquent debtors; it referred
to that court delinquent loans amounting to UT. 353 million (or 39% of
outstanding arrears). As of end 1983, BMDC had reduced its arrears to
U1f 726 million or 35% of total outstanding portfolio.
47.       BMDC pursued its recovery efforts and, as of September 1984,
reduced its arrears to UM 637 million or 28% of total outstanding
portfolio. BMDC expects to further reduce arrears on short-term loan
portfolio and its overall arrears position will improve more
significantly with expected collections on its six delinquent term loans
to industrial enterprises (none of which was financed by the first IDA
credit). Two of these loans were made with a government guarantee, to
the Mauritanian Company for Industry and Equipment ("Mauritanienne des
Industries et Equipements" - MIE), a privately-owned blanket factory in
which BMDC also holds an equity investment, and to the Company for
Apartment Building Construction and Management ("Societe de Construction
et Gestion Immobiliere" - SOCOGIM),  a government-owned company.
Together these loar.s accounted in 1983 for UM 151 million of BMDC's
arrears (for which no provision was made) and represented respectively
20% of total arrears and 63% of arrears on the term loan portfolio.
48.       Under the first IDA credit, the government had agreed to
compensate BMDC for any loss on government-guaranteed loans, in



_ 16 -
particular those made to MIE and SOCOGIM, presently under
reorganization, should these enterprises be unable to repay BMDC. A
reorganization plan and repayment schedule, both acceptable by IDA, have
been presented for MIE. It was agreed that (i) the submission of a
satisfactory reorganization plan and repayment schedule for SOCOGIM
would be a condition of effectiveness; and (ii) the government would
honor its guarantees if MIE and SOCOGIM were not to respect their
repayment schedule (Sections 6.01 (e) and (f) and 4.03, draft
Development Credit Agreement).
49.       Capital Structure.  On the basis of BMDC's unaudited balance
sheets, as at end 1983, although its term debt/equity ratio was still
below the 4:1 limit set under the first IDA credit agreement, its total
debt/equity ratio (not covenanted under the first IDA project) had
reached 22:1. However, if the UM 98 million additional provisions for
bad loans recommended by its auditors to reflect more accurately BMDC's
portfolio risks were established, this would have reduced its net worth
from UM 118 million to UK 20 million, bringing its term and total
debt/equity ratios respectively to 5.8:1 and to 129:1, the latter being
excessively high by normal banking standards. In 1984, at IDA's urging,
B1MDC's board of directors agreed to increase its share capital by UK 200
million of which U14 50 million would come from a cash subscription by
BCM to BMDC's share capital and about UK 150 million from the
conversion, agreed on between IDA and the government in March 1984, of
the first line of credit (US$2.55 million) into government equity. The
equivalent of US$1.945 million (or about UM 120 million) disbursed by
BMDC as of end 1984, has already been converted into equity and the
conversion will be completed by end 1985 following the full disbursement
of this first line of credit. In parallel, BMDC has agreed to include
(i) in ics 1984 balance sheet an amount of un 49 million of additional
provisions; and (ii) in its 1985 balance sheet, the balance between this
amount and the amount of additional provisions that BMDC's auditors will
recommend following the audit of its 1984 accounts.
50.       The fir.ancial reaEures described above would, by end 1985,
bring BMDC's net worth to UM 279 million and improve its term .
debt/equity ratio to 1.4:1 and the total debt/equity ratio to 10.5:1,
which would be quite satisfactory by normal banking standards. (By way
of comparison, banking regulations in the West African Monetary Union
allow the banks a ratio of net worth to risk assets of 6%, which would
imply a total debt/equity ratio of 16.7:1). The term debt/equity limit
of 4:1, set under the previous project, would be maintained.  In
addition, it is r-commnended that a limit of 12:1 be set on BMDC's total
debt to equity ratio.  The establishment of additional provisions of
UM 49 million and the payment in by BCM of UM 50 million into BMDC's
share capital increase, would be conditions of effectiveness of the
proposed credit (Sections 6.01 (b) and (c), draft Development Credit
Agreement).
51.       Organization and Staffing.  BMDC has competent management and
c nu.x..s of dedicated staff.  With the technical assistance provided



- 17 -
under the previous project, BIIDC has developed a good capability for
term lending, including adequate project appraisal and supervision.
BMDC has made noteworthy efforts to improve its operational procedures
and its data processing (in particular by introducing the use of
computers), and to strengthen its personnel.  In order to achieve a
higher level of operational efficiency, BMDC intends to complete the
codification of all its operational procedures, as well as to review
those already codified to adapt them to the organizational changes which
occurred in the past years and to strengthen its management practice and
staff training.   Measures to that effect are included in BMDC's Action
Program analyzed in the following paragraph.
52.       Action Program.  In consultation with IDA, BMDC has formulated
a comprehensive Action Program outlining specific measures for
correcting existing institutional shortcomings and for achieving further
improvements, both from a financial and an operational standpoint. This
Action Program contains specific and monitorable deadlines for key
steps.
a)   From a financial standpoint, the share capital increase
and the establishment of additional provisions referred to in
para 49 should result in considerable improvements in BMDC's
capital structure, including a restructured balance sheet that
would more accurately reflect the condition of the portfolio.
In addition, BMDC will pursue the account-by-account review of
its loan portfolio in arrears, to be completed by June 1985
and to be repeated at least annually thereafter, to serve as a
basis for its intensified loan collection efforts and as a
part of its objective of gradually reducing the ratio of
arrears to outstanding portfolio from 35% (actual as of
end-1983) to 15% by end-1987. In regard to future financial
management, the Action Program sets such quantitative targets
as a current ratio of no less than 0.75:1, a term debt/equity
ratio of not more than 4:1, a total debt/equity ratio of not
more than 12:1, and a gradual reduction of the ratio of
administrative cost to total assets from 3.6% in 1983 to below
3.0% by 1988;
b)   From an operational standpoint, the Action Program provides
for the establishment of an adequate Management Information
System, the codification of key operating procedures and
systematic staff training, the desirability of which is
discussed in para 51. The technical assistance to be provided
under the project (para 63) would help BMDC carry out this
program of institutional strengthening.
53.       Financial Projections.  BMDC's financial projections for the
period 1985 - 1989, indicate that its total assets are expected
conservatively to grow at a rate of 10% instead of the 19% of the recent
past.  Its operations are expected to remain profitable and its net
profits as a percentage of net worth to rise from 9% in 1985 to 15% in



- 18 -
1989. Term debt and total debt to equity ratios would range from 1.4:1
to 1.7:1 and from 10.0:1 to 10.4:1 respectively. Provisions, which are
expected to represent 10.7% of total outstanding portfolio in 1985,
would be increased to reach 13% in 1987 and would remain at this level
thereafter.
54.       With the experience gained during the first project BNDC has
built up a pipeline of about 36 subprojects (of which three are
expansion projects) whose total cost would be UK 2.8 billion (or US$34
million). BMDC intends to select from this pipeline about 20 small- and
medium-scale subprojects with the highest economic merits. During the
1985-1989 period, its disbursements on term loans are expected to amount
to UM 434 million. Rediscounted medium-term credit is expected to
amount to about UM 87 million.  BMDC dees not expect other external term
resources than the proposed IDA line of credit (equivalent to about
UM 300 million). To fill its term resources gap, BNDC envisages using
about UN 47 million of its one-year renewable deposits, which have
proved to be stable in the past, and can therefore be used for term
lending.
2.   The Mauritanian Carpet Bureau - OTM
55.       Background.  In 1979, when carpet production and weavers'
training, provided by the Mauritanian Tourism and Artisanal Bureau were
virtually at a standstill, a component of US$1.66 million for
rehabilitation of this handicraft was included in the first IDA project.
In 1980, on IDA's recommendation, the newly created agency, OTH,
decentralized  carpet  production  by  forming  small  independent
cooperatives of six weavers each, working from the house of one of the
weavers.  In addition to technical guidance, 0TM  provided each
cooperative, as a credit in kind, with one loom and an initial raw
material supply. OTM was to recover the cost of the raw material by
paying only the labor cost of carpets delivered by the weavers. Each
cooperative was to repay the cost of its loom within eight years, with
an 8.5% per annum interest rate.
56.       Operations.  By 1982 OTM had, with IDA's funds and the help of
the Tunisian Carpet Bureau, equipped 200 women weavers and started to
train another 200. However, because it had, in 1980, inherited from its
predecessor an onerous short term debt of about UM 25 million and excess
administrative staff, it was operating at a loss and with insufficient
working capital to finance the raw materials that it needed.
Consequently, notwithstanding the weavers' willingness to work, their
production, which rose from 760 m2 in 1980 to 1,500 m2 in 1981, dropped
in 1982 to 1,000 m2. Furthermore, in 1983 the government stopped paying
its 50% share of training costs, the banks discontinued the granting of
overdrafts to OTM, which consequently stopped production and training,
and IDA suspended in March 1983 all disbursements on this component of
the project. OTM's balance sheet as of December 31, 1983 showed a
short-term debt of about UK 40 million including UM 22 million towards
the banks and UM 13.5 million towards the social security system.



- 19 -
57.       As a condition of the resumption of IDA's disbursements, the
government reduced OTM's administrative personnel from 36 to 11, along
with other administrative measures for streamlining OTM and
strengthening its management.  In addition, it has reduced OTM's debt
towards the social security system to UM 9.4 million (by cancellation of
the interest due) and agreed to bring about the conversion of this debt,
as well as OTM's debt towards the banks, into long-term debts with terms
compatible with OTH's debt servicing capacity. The government further
agreed that during the implementation period (i) no debt repayment would
be requested by any of OTM's creditors; and (ii) OTH's future revenues
would be deposited in a special account at BMDC to finance OTM's
activities exclusively.   Consequently, IDA resumed disbursements in
October 1984.
I
58.       Prospects.  OTM has a fully equipped training center capable
of receiving 200 trainees at any one time. By June 1985, there will be
about 400 weavers, of which 200 already fully trained, capable of
producing a highly appreciated product for local as well as foreign
markets, in which potential European importers have shown interest. In
addition, continued assistance to OTM would (i) create considerable
employment (taking into account the fact that women once trained, can
easily train other members of their families) at a very low cost (about
US$1,500 per person for training and equipment); (ii) provide work in
particular for the impoverished women refugees in the cities; and (iii)
increase, although marginally, the country's foreign exchange earnings
because a large proportion of carpets produced would be exported or
locally sold to foreigners.  OTM's projected income statements show
that, following the above rehabilitation measures, it would be able to
generate positive cash flows (after debt repayment) growing from about
UM 820,000 in 1985 to about UM 7.3 million in 1989.
59.       It is therefore recommended that the proposed project continue
to support OTM by financing the training of new weavers and the
equipment and initial raw material needed to establish new cooperatives.
It was agreed with the Government that OTH's debts towards the social
security system and towards the banks will, no later than October 31,
1985, be converted into long-term loans with amortization periods of not
less than 10 and 8 years respectively, including grace periods of not
less than 3 and 2 years respectively and with interest rates compatible
with OTM's repayment capacity. Draft loan agreements between OTM and
its creditors would be submitted to IDA no later than August 15, 1985.
The effectiveness of these two loans will be a condition of disbursement
for this component. If by October 31, 1985 either of these loans are
not effective, the OTM component would be dropped from the project and
the funds earmarked for this purpose would be allocated to the line of
credit to BMDC (Section 4.05 and Schedule 1 para 2 (b), draft
Development Credit Agreement).



- 20 -
3.  The Training and Professional Improvement Center - CFPP
60.       CFPP is a state-owned vocational training center, founded in
the late 1970s with UNDP and IDA financing (under the first Education
Project), located in Nouakchott. Its object is to organize in-service
training for both public and private sector employees, In bookkeeping,
clerical services and selected technical fields (e.g. construction
activities, automobile mechanics). The private sector participates,
through CGEM, in the financing of CFPP's operation. CFPP has financial
autonomy under the Ministry of Labor and operates efficiently.
61.       The Accounting and Auditing Profile of Mauritania, prepared by
the World Bank in 1982, drew attention to the lack of qualified
accountants.  In addition to an already considerable need for basic                 I
training in accounting, training is required for all existing
professionals to help them adapt to the new Mauritanian Accounting Code
that the Government introduced in 1982. CFPP, the only institution
which provides training for accountants of industrial enterprises, has
therefore a major role to play in enhancing accounting practice in these
enterprises but it lacks the financial and technical means to carry out
this task. As mentioned earlier (para 23), the proposed project would
include assistance to CFPP to train accountants. A PPF of US$140,000
was approved in September 1984 to finance the preparation of this
training component.
C.  Project Description and Objectives
62.       Line of Credit to BMDC.  The Government would relend US$3.8
million of the IDA Credit to BMDC for onlending on the following terms
and conditions (i) Beneficiaries: BMDC would finance fixed investment
and permanent working capital needs of the new or existing private
enterprises, included in its pipeline (para 54), in sectors other than
agriculture. With the objective of reaching a relatively large number
of smaller enterprises, an amount of US$1 million is earmarked for
financing enterprises whose total assets do not exceed US$250,000; (ii)
Relending Terms to BMDC: The line of credit would be relent by the
Government to BMDC for 20 years (including five years of grace) at an
interest rate of 7% p.a., which, considering the final onlending rate of
11% referred to in (iii) below, would give BNDC an adequate spread of 4
percentage points. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the
Government against a 1% per annum fee charged on final borrowers. The
standard IDA commitment fee of 0.5% would apply to BNDC. BMDC will
re-use the second generation funds to finance activities or projects
that are in line with the original objectives of the line of credit,
including the financing of enterprises' permanent working capital; (iii)
Terms and Conditions to Final Borrowers: Subloans by BMDC would have
maturities of up to 12 years, including a grace period of one to three
years. BMDC's subloans would finance up to 85% of the subprojects whose
cost is below the free limit and up to 75% of those whose cost is above
the free limit. BMDC's onlending rate to final borrowers would be 11%



- 21 -
(plus a 1X per annum fee accruing to the government as a guarantee fee
for covering the foreign exchange risk); (iv) Subproject Processing:
There would be an individual free limit of US$150,000, with an aggregate
limit of US$1 million. It is estimated that with this limit, about 12
subprojects out of 20 will require IDA's review for approval. All
subproject appraisal reports by BMDC would show appropriate economic
justification, including an analysis of capital intensity and choice of
technology, value added and foreign exchange savings or earnings.
Whenever applicable, subproject appraisal reports would include the
calculation of the financial rate of return and the economic rate of
return.  The latter should be no less than 12% (Agreements on these
arrangements are contained in Schedule 1 para 1, draft Development
Credit Agreement; section 3.01 (c) (i), draft Development Credit
Agreement; sections 2.02 (d) and 2.03 (b) draft Project Agreement and
Schedule L para 3 (a), draft Development Credit Agreement, sections 2.02
(b) and (c), draft Project Agreement and Schedule 1 para 2 (c), draft
Development Credit Agreement).
63.       Technical Assistance to BIIDC.  This component would help
further develop BMDC's institutional strength in particular through the
implementation of the Action Program referred to in para 52. To this
end, US$430,000 would be passed on as a grant by the Government to BMDC
to finance (i) one year of expatriate expertise to help BMDC codify its
procedures and establish a Management Information System (MIS)
(US$80,000); (ii) the extension for three years of the services of an
existing technical adviser who will help put into practice BMDC's new
procedures, MIS and internal controls, and the training of its personnel
(US$210,000); (iii) six months of short-term consultancy services to
BMDC's Development Department to help assess the appropriateness of
equipment and price of subprojects submitted to BMDC (US$70,000); and
(iv) training fees for 48 staff to attend courses at the Center for
Training in Banking, a facility located at BCI and created and
efficiently operated with the assistance of the French CIFPB and the
foreign costs of the training of 8 high level staff in overseas courses
and seminars (US$70,000).
64.       Technical and Financial Assistance to OTh.  This component
would help OTM (i) train about 300 additional weavers in cities outside
Nouakchott (100 in Ayoun, 50 in Barena, 50 in A]leg and 100 in Kiffa);
(ii) organize the trained weavers into 50 cooperatives to which OTM
would provide equipment and initial raw materials; and (iii) provide
further technical and marketing assistance to weavers. The latter would
be trained in successive cities over a three year period, in sessions of
six months each. The provision of the looms and raw materials would be
treated as a credit in kind by OTM, to be repaid by weavers on the terms
specified in para 55.
65.       For this purpose the Government would pass on US$460,000 as a
grant to OTM to finance (i) the weavers' training costs, including
scholarships, raw materials (used as teaching materials) and
administrative costs (US$180,000); (ii) the provision of 50 looms,



- 22 -
vehicles and initial supplies of raw materials for the trained weavers
(US$210,000); and (iii) the extension for one year of the services of an
existing advisor provided by the Tunisian Carpet Bureau to complete the
strengthening of OTM's management and organization and the establishment
within the institution of a marketing department initiated under the
first project (US$70,000).
66.      The Training of Accountants. This component would finance a
pilot scheme intended to train, over a two-year period, an accountant
for each of 25 selected enterprises (16 privately-owned enterprises who
are borrowers of BMDC and 9 state-owned enterprises) who would become
capable of applying internationally accepted accounting standards. This
training will be provided within the CFPP by an ILO and two Mauritanian
instructors.  It would cons4.st both of formal courses at CFPP and of
practical on-the-job training at the enterprise level.
67.      The Government would pass on for this component, an amount of
US$310,000 as a grant to CFPP to finance (i) a US$240,000 contract
signed with ILO to provide two years of services of an instructor
(US$225,000) and teaching materials (US$15,000); (ii) the salaries of
two local instructors (US$42,000); and (iii) an independent evaluation
of results (US$28,000).
68.      Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Industry.  This
component of US$250,000 would finance (i) two man/years of expert
services (US$200,000) to help the Ministry of Industry establish an
adequate data base and carry out a review of the incentives system and
of the institutional set up for industrial promotion mentioned in paras
27 and 29 and help implement the necessary reforms to improve them; and
(ii) equipment and vehicles (US$50,000).
D.   Project Costs and Financing
69.      The total project cost (net of taxes and duties) would amount
to US$11.2 million, of which US$8.8 million or 78% would be in foreign
exchange. The financing of subprojects would amount to US$9.5 million
or 85% of total project cost. IDA financing would cover 47% of the
project cost, with the balance to be met by subproject sponsors (21% or
about the same percentage during the first operation), the project
institutions (2%) and FND which received in 1984 a line of credit of
about US$6 million from the Arab Fund for Economic and Social
Development (30%). IDA financing would cover 57% of project foreign
costs and 12% of local costs. It would in particular finance all the
local costs of CFFP's and OTM's training with the understanding that
these two institutions will, upon completion of the project, continue
the training at their own expenses.



- 23 -
E.   Project Implementation
70.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  The project would be monitored
through half yearly progress reports by BY -, OTM and CFPP, on their
respective IDA-financed activities, and their content would be agreed on
during negotiations. BMDC, CFPP and OTh would submit annual audited
accounts, including for BMDC a detailed analysis of arrears no later
than nine months following the end of the accounting period. CFPP would
submit, no later than 12 months after the end of the accountants'
training, an evaluation of the results by an independent instituttion or
consultant.  In addition,each institution would prepare, within three
months of project completion, a Project Completion Report, the form and
content of which would be agreed with IDA.
r
71.       Procurement.  In line with the Bank's standard practice with
DFC-type projects, and given the expected small size of the procurement
contracts, there will be no international competitive bidding. For
imported machinery and equipment, OTM and subproject sponsors would be
required to sollicit at least three quotations. For off-the-shelf
materials and civil works, BMDC would satisfy itself that purchases are
suitable and competitively priced. Consultants would be selected in
accordance with IDA guidelines and their terms of reference and
conditions of contract subject to prior approval by IDA
72.       Disbursements.  A US$500,000 revolving fund amounting to about
4 months of projected disbursements would be established in the form of
a Special Account in US dollars at BCM. It would prefinance
expenditures by the three project institutions (BMDC, OTH, CFPP) and
those relating to subprojects approved by IDA. Disbursements would be
fully documented for technical assistance contracts and imported raw
materials and equipment. Initially, full documentation would be
required for subprojects; however, the Association would, within six
months following project effectiveness, review BMDC's performance with
the possibility of allowing disbursements against Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs). The latter would be used for expenditures relating
to training and salaries of CFPP's local instructors. Disbursements
under SOE procedure would be supported by full documentation retained by
the project institutions and made available for IDA inspection during
supervision. The SOEs and the Special Account would be audited by
auditors acceptable to IDA. I'isbursement would be for 100% of IDA's
participation towards the cost of azzh subproject and 100% of local
training fees of BMDC's staff, af OTM's-training costs, of the salaries
of local instructors to be recruited by CFPP and of the technical
assistance to the Ministry of Industry. Reimbursement requests for less
than US$20,000 equivalent would not be submitted.
F.   Benefits and Risks
73.       The project would build upon the results of the previous one
and continue IDA support of the Government's objectives in the SME and



- 24 -
artisanal sector. At the enterprise level, the project is expected to
finance through BMDC about 20 small- or medium-size subprojects
generating about 750 new jobs at an average cost of about US$14,000 and
to provide, through OTM, professional training as well as equipment and
initial raw materials to 300 additional artisan carpet weavers. At the
institutional level, the project includes technical assistance for
further strengthening the operational capabilities of BMDC as a
development lending institution, of OTM and of 25 enterprises through
the training of their accountants. At the sector level, the project
would reinforce IDA's policy dialogue with the Government through
discussions to take place following the completion of the industrial
sector review (paras 27 and 29) and the Central Bank review of the
banking sector (para 39). Finally, at the country level, the project
would transfer sorely needed foreign exchange resources from IDA to one
of the neediest countries in Sub-Saharan Africa, for use in economically
productive investments.
74.       A major risk which the project entails is the relative
weakness of the institutions involved in project implementation,
although such risk is more pronounced for OTM, than it is for BMDC, the
principal project institution, which has made steady progress under the
first project. Another risk would be that, on account of both the
inadequate policy framework and the relative shortage of investment
projects prevailing in the country, sub-optimal subprojects might be
envisaged by BMDC for financing. The project seeks to minimize such
risk through IDA's subproject review process as well as through
technical assistance included in the project to strengthen the project
institutions and through close supervision.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic
Republic of Mauritania and the Association, the draft Project Agreement
between the Association and BMDC, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in' Article V, Section I (d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
76.       Special conditions of the Draft Development Credit Agreement
are listed in Section !II of the Annex III of this report. Special
conditions of Credit effectiveness include (i) the enactment by the
Military Council of the abolishment of the UM 10 million threshold in
the Investment Code (para 25); (ii) the subscription by BCM of UM 50
million in cash to BMDC's share capital and inclusion in BMDC's 1984
balance sheet of an additional provision of UM 49 million (para 50);
(iii) the provision of plans for the reorganization of SOCOGIK and of
the repayment schedule of its debt owed to BMDC on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA (para 48); and, (iv) the execution of a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between the Government and BMDC (para 62). A special



- 25 -
condition of disbursement for the OTM component is the conversion, on
terms acceptable to IDA, into long-term debts, of OTM's UM 9.4 million
debt towards the social security system and UM 22 million debt towards
the banks (para 59).
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 5, 1985



- 26 -
Page rof 5
mama                   - SOCI A      uL s DZM erA
N Z A1 uvas (EWIm  AVEsw ) IL
NO1?                cam?  ERU   ESTUIAIE)
tgil  1OLb      C4= t           ID=ZNOMR               10=Ao
a cinuss Eq. U)~~~~~~~~~AUUS O SM  1 FRC &MO S
TOTAL                             1030.7       1037       10307,
ACICULTWRAL                        395.1        395.3      394.6
cWm      Cari (on)                    100.0        210.0      470.0            1112.9                 1149.6
CXtIUANS OP OIL EWIVAUT)            l2.0        1150       132.0             529.0                  622.1
sam sam waAe.
POPIILATION*ID-VRA (TNDOUMo)       970.0       1214.0     198.0
II POPUATION  R or TOTAL)            3.4         12.        25.1 09.;                                48.2
POPUIAfON PEOJCTIOS.
p0pUIATfl IN I* 2000 (MLL)                                L25
STXOUAT  PtCUATWO (KIUL)                                   8.2
PDrOLATIO KONDIUI                                          1. 
POPULATION OBsmT
vEm Sq. M.                         0.9          1.2        1.5              55.8                   36.3
PE S. KM. ArRL LSO D.5                          3.1        4.0             111.5                  461.7
POPULATIO  AGE SUCD E  (2)
0-14 YES                         *4.0         45.3       46.2              45.4                   43.6
I-4  YES                         53.3        52.0        50.8              51.7                   53.1
65  MID ABE                        L7           L7         2.                2.9                    3.3
POPULATION GrH  RATE CZ)
TOTAL                              2.2          2.2        2.3                2.8                    2.8
URDU                              16.2         15.5    1    .1               5.2                    4.5
CRUDE S3K2M REAT (Pa  NOUS)         50.7         49.9       43.4              47.0                   *0.4
CRUc OEATH RAT (CPEE 7US)           27.1         23.9       19.4               15,2                   11.5
1OBS      OOCTION RATE               3.4          3.4.       3.4               3.2                   2L8
-PAtLY PLANNIN
Aar ans.         mum (T..)
US ES  OP aIMD m       )            ..           ..        1.0 IC             ..                   22.2
FMAd sem s
umcx or FO OD.MM CAPmTA
(1929-71-100)                      107.0        102.0       73.0              91.6                   97.3
Fa CsATA SUPTL  Or
CALORIES (2 oF EQUIrBVS)          93.0         85.0       97.0               98.2                  110.8
DINS (cGAMS PMDAY)                80.0        75.0        750                56.7                  70.1
of WCC  ADDAL ANID PUtS         51.0         49.0       4.0 /d             17.0                   17.8
CUILD (AGS 1-4) DER  383            45.0         36.1       27.0               18.7                   14.6
_-a
Lirt ECST. AT Irm  (TYEAS)          37.2         40.3       ".3               51.7                   57.5
INFANT lYT. RAT Cm  T0US6)         178.0        161.9      13LO              102.7                   101.5
ACCESS TO SAFE sA* (SPOr)
TA                                  ..         17.0         ..               35.6                   59.7
UN                                  ..         98.0       16.0 I.           54.1                   34.5
REAL                               o..         10.0         ..              27.3                    38.4
ACCES TO EnETA DISPOSAL
(C or POPULATWIO)
TOTAL                               ..          7.0
UR                                  ..        100.0
RREAL                               ..           ..
POPLATION PB PIYSICI             40420.0      17850.0    1*350.0 Id        11948.3                 43*5.1
POP. PER NURSD  PERSON            5430.0 if   *440.0      2080.0 7;          2248.9                 1831.1
POP. El HOSPITAL BED
TOTLL                           4780.0       2890.0     2610.0 Jd          986.9                   632.9
Un                                  ..        700.0     131LO /d*           368.7                  545.5
RURAL                           5210.0 I!a  5370.0      3710.0 f           4012.1                 2513.5
ASEISSIS PEt OSPIAL s                 ..           ..         ..                 ..                   26.2
11SING
AVE11E SIZE Or OUSCENA
TOTAL                               ..           ..
UA                                  ..           ..
RSAL                                ..           ..
AVERAGE NO. o PERSOS/ROCK
TOM                                 ..           ..
Uma                                 .,           .
RUAL                                ..           .
ACCESS TO ELECT. (:or OEDWUCS)
TOTAL                               ..           ..         ..                 ..                   46.2
UAN                                 ..           ..                           ..                    77.7
RAL                                  .           ..          .                 ..                   1.1



- 27 -
Page 2 of 5
11AURITANIA             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHET
MIAURTANIA                            REFERENCE GlROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) f
MOST                 (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) fb
RECENT         HIDDDLE INCI           MIDDiL lUCIUe
imoh        go& tk    ESTDIATEib   AFRICA S. Or SAHARA    N. AFRICA 4 MID EAST
ADJUSTED CNROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                      8.0         14.0        33.0               91.0                     88.3
MALE                     13.0         20.0        43.0               90.5                    102.5
FEMALE                    3.0          6.0        23.0               73.6                     73.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     0.4          2.0        10.0                17.4                    43.0
MALE                      1.0          4.0        16.0               23.7                     52.3
*                              FEMALE                    0.04                     4.0               14.8                     33.0
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)                        12.5         4.5                 5.3                    10.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             20.0         24.0        41.0               38.6                     30.3
SECONDARY                           17.0         24.0        25.0 /h            24.3                     23.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE CZ)                5.0 /I      10.0        17.0 /h             35.6                    43.5
COESUOt
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP            0.4          3.4                           20.7                     17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP          12.4         45.3        98.5               100.8                   138.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAIID PoP              ..           ..          ..                18.5                    46.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY CENERAL
INTEREST) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPUIATION                          Z24 /         .                 17.2                    31.2
CINEMA ANNIUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA                                0.3 /d             0.3                      1.7
LABOR FORtCE
TOTAL LAWOR FORCE (THOUS)            299.0        362.0       454.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     3.8          4.1         4.3               33.8                     10.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               91.0         88.0        69.0                57.1                    42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.0          4.0         8.0               17.4                     27.9
PARIlCIPATION RATE (PERCElT)
TOTAL                               30.9         29.8        28.4                36.3                    26.2
KALE                                59.8         57.8        54.3                47.6                    46.4
FEMALE                               2.3          2.4         2.4                25.1                     5.8
ECONONIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.5          1.6         1.7                 1.4                     1.8
DICCI DISUIB8TIIO
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOMIE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 52 OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20: OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST ZOZ OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40Z OF HOUSEHDLDS
POVrTa TARCET   -
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTYr INCME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URbS.                                                                           525.3                   274.8
RURAL                                                        110.0 /b          2n9.0                    177.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CWPITA)
URBAN                                 ''           ''       330.0 /h           477.4                    402.6
RURAL                                                       120.0 /h            186.0                   284.9
ESTLIATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (2)
URBMA
RURAL
NOr AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
NO TE S
/s   The group averages for each indicator are populacion-weighted arithmetLc means.  Coverage of countries among the
Indicators depends on availability of data and Is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for 'most Recent Estimate" between 1980 and 1982.
Ic   Ages 12-50 years; /d 1977; /I  1976; /f 1962; /L Government hospital establishments; /h 1978; /lI 1963; f/  1972.
JUNE. 1984



-28 -
ANNEX 1
teens teetesyat                                     a-gje31of  5
kelet  etlt.wjh she de. ste iran rts ...t..   wi-rail, jaiged sir  ..' eshwettei.e aS reiatta. he.eteelA .5..he esti ibl chip atgwt hlbl,tLfMAetteewll
-lbttee.  gtaew  ac littw. slit,ois   twaist   s        ..p ...the  e .C.tjett.t osi" dI)) PA esl   gee  ."thowoe.    thtewte    isec   b    atli                        h
eahe.lww.rt  .wet  a   tsh L   si.  iAPtt wa,.ttw.  *tp -b .,. -edtw  A lwc- uwi APP       se adrl   wst. --b.   I. fle..  bcawww I-   oftt-e   iwwlwfvsnttnetd 
P              Aelce.I   b   e eA. -.tAk  =it  shR ie c at. Pu pitltt "Itihlw   ertltle  new.- tAtd wattil Stie   ai  eba cslp fle  .&Wajew        b       et
flap   e deetwt ls ta leWr .itte  the .-.0....A. rwPiitewe anie tie terttetet  dep -            the eeA ttLAtttalt Aod  bct ewi BeA PAwl  MA an.. weta PAPVLee b
ewIerti.wAn te  eItuegwae. at w            twaewa  t,.w.-II-a eais  It. Iwlti tet.M             ISPAd werei  the tiliw  atI iS'" tidtti.t -io  _Its imelath  esl    .
LAM ttwic  .I...              0-IA -           A              u                               . ~ Id eq5.  ffeiuLa IhAs-Fwwtt.lls  ted   hA tete               -. .4 pitti
-hh":5    ." ' letwe.  it*resiyt   e-ttitewert      p              st wwt  aed                                       wets,  .eiies   t..4dv. Menial wrweaw iS
- H -A _. -ft.. ." .1.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~it..teAAetliIrt.d y eet tep-,a isJr.  t-p-et.ed
tPrtsiA  l"!P)-mp.*ateasr    itewleesspls                                                           ltti5 patIte ad  4eaeg-rt e1p!iteihptla
M55    Om          .-.tWiSet. - atet w91155eaerti   it,  l     r.q   rt.                       edtw  teeter.-    -  petweaacttr stel  he a phpwlets. lb rAPP af adleet
tlue.si 0 iweeyta lai d.. teit.tl.ew    i.ilsw-    yr.  ela                                     aetlae  catew Z.   MPile. itt.b) whe-at w Fi l-psllww ".ePAwAnst  iS.
aS  getie.wt  twettrtrt i  hItest   it  it qitrtweeewereplca ftS.Pau.  - 'ti-I twig. wi - n   reel.. tills.,L1P    WI. d
tog!, i   tIlt  dale.                                                                         ritwsn'eltIA-  lIF al 1 siehi  PI ai                   -lIa  Ai -destti
CAFM     A.                                                                                                   Milit", 1ibri7 JIlW   l   wte  e  ta
Cl  tar  tls'.ee.tiu  - Si .t Ict   a.. tied  tte.   _I-i  5              A..teStIs1.                   PO    f,I-               ..AAI14     .
P.a OPPRUPAP                                                              -I& A 11-bt-d  .qp Pra.Clw  I  eretlt Crrrt  fr eyetlu  -SaeSAeMARA  rri
etc  -~~    -  is   ii arid th1tt-Ittp-  iwtttd eita.-   tesirttat.  lAd  toliaw                                         e      lld   Cawrwa     eteweta is
ecptew tee   teset. we  -iwt  Ittu, .       .e.t.eit i.li a... I Al.e-ewtMetitwl e-t-IcteritA                                   t . t-sie - pew.  t- rer wd
ewee.lbtawail  It. lesitl  ret11. clew         ~    ,L he.eee   et A.-                     seAP, we..dptt:etiwesetw
,=.s cee  IL. CirtittLY cIrweatseA....... t.weetsca  pest. twisty.-
Pleelewpercyw-ew Ate   " e iset, ii. Ibi eite '-a cir-c.                             PALwlta.Pd-1  -it                          -Pt-I
cseests API,    1 .4 eat twtl  a   tenths  --.  tee pA-j:tlA    pet5ePidi,                          ieaelti
.5wals  Ih  deS  u..id g  ceterlw. ii                     t .1.    ,a-.-  h                sere   aitwiwtitidrat  seclee   wyPIP eaigd- It" percA
gnash  -seAi --H.  .        Thi  wlcsewar  eweetl  ilaw - '.wi tar   -  h                      -       e   aptA I.e   be..   ihe-tm., th   ctttetet ie ltietiosee
bliefL  . she  ecieiw   thrtttee   wt the  A.pie .1w. steye                                Prea.e - .           wui.  at.t- tea..             -Fli  a.- elogwwcit
2,b ewa. tee tal    ?h. -icIe   tte,tie  tIiw         PAc rteic tAuwst.                       edral   -eelee I.  teat  at reir tw  unre.Ad relate  tell
tere  thPA   aIe t     etleaee..J_.letlili  Sc. iwi atIwia  theppt   cit   E1  s  ter   lag;arnwPFietc 
is  -ewsreA.e witate    rt   eAeei   ii.   tisi                                    .e...t Id.ericaid...11..dr.
-Iesa-  ACawwitI   ites       wahe                           rlcw   bVrlca   eete   wewe  i.srdrt-teectliteii
seIaPilwII   tiritie  rts    il  relweelta   It-  At udpcwlrIt-   apisas   c  ewedr ati Iwis                                                             a-
asS, si         PL 11-Ac iwec.                .           A.  o-tsWtllee   el  -rlt                                       ewi.y-Tttswd eictdt
!witeete.lweiiir                                                               prtary  C  ewiccaity teal. dtwi Ad         a. A       sestireIi h
s-se  wecatLP tie, SCs sad tINt-                       I.-       dciPniettie                              S   hee-i f. -. PArt   tce   ala5  cda                 ie 
_ti. h.  catwtee   ei 4iwld-eec c11ieiei   a                                                 ate.e       wetaaipittc mi.id IiT taei   ea.ldA
ft,awt    a  l.tcuCti -PAhtWt. PqA .I_-tk    came artt-ai  tI-                             t.Pyt              I-
C-! ti  V .d.esd:        t a:seee       atesa M.             sd-ear                        ya "I,aIrl. Caps  it  tecAd wali ted1m   - P..erce.A -aeannieala.
pe tcwtc;-[lI.:ti-, id iS  dai.Pat. ewirh   tewi esie etate  ireest 0 welIse aiPtcre  taw .a
Veeete   CertSt   see      set-a                    r      ci  et teesteta-                     sitiry aset..
pe I..aew  tdtt-i. tee--ts. ad tst-ti.                                            is.hrerr...is.  shia-.e.d cMIw-itt          - Mlt er-e   teaaI=   tee tadl
bald tie Ceat  55. irrcel-wes-  ist  tc  tassel                         - ati                   Iedear  5wee.e  pwtt pe  Ihews  Pt pies1icta  ePeed
tas. bteeitwte-  ee ihre                     Pddet   - wiIw witl ha  te                         L. e    ,Icetu   is  te pie   ttreile       . it TV  cIc  -e iw Stewsi.
be   _Ia rereacri  pettd 'I che  wtter -c tiewef. ae-i-eti                                  tci crCtt-.aitce lereweedewtic                      - Sa e    --re.
tettle AS   ca; .-AwL, iLes-teewwe ce Als,tt A. e   C.t.  -e ereset-   --.wI, d-ire  kAiri  swtcit   wi Pi    -t.tilw
teitr Csicted- Acwlcti tasti ttwcieai  - aia    Ise        rerwte  he tautr  It at`PPi     PAwi    -lice  tat A                           Pm ea.
FPeaa.                                                                                         tleel  ate Irietept.t..w    atsa5   nnI   ks
rewt.Finte- ter  Iearet.1  trwi..wj-tteia   1aei                                     nu.  sese
we tessa-aertig a- .45 cit Ftcet.etee ct etten iwicaiM at.
ercelrte ce  ia   ets-atretri ee t-et ecrted i.    -e  t      sae--sce
eta d-twela  i... eaitatr aw   eiJ tist5  ttheek  sr i.           1          - ae ter     ti,tacIAPIel    -  tietaL.  aicle   -Pew,LatdP    ii
a.iia  ptiatels  - wtLiD   L -a-  tilt.r.rIaitdwcadi                                     trt.       tiret     ai  tett  Ii ieLc.  icmeety  tetbecdo;-
ifletne    alsc    c     ti   r   iteaa      fwae       twe(..ieteiwts       ae  tees Pi`i PPA- itete.  attetwe   a elug. Is ad
ectic.as eweape etlcd.dt   Itereait ~tacrlta.1 tea  sawer  ti                 ettttsetr, wele is  w   a Pireicac  4 Icei  sat ttaw: I  ,  Pit
Said.  aAIwe  eec   rthrt,ta  ilhc  tS-i                          .wdttadltdc
da.    clAhle s.ptaectledsieet.si-s   acile                                                 N. 1111  .atwtdt.lesiebai  sAID. aitIvtesilt 
C-ie.. a-tiI  e       triie  cdlu..  d- irhese.    -qr-                                  i.  ..esas.   tete  slat eearte.1                      PdLM.-tf
ittts    d hA-c    esaesearcisi   wpeii   Sa14tghlCt                                     ehes.tjiccytli   ti                  v gd It-te.
a    ALiei  tant  INtl-Si. 1th as  iAtt-acs..                                          leCPsw wtbywtwrlta
WIt =      -.wew e   -tat A. a  eai   rt.ptdy-   eea    taa    a
e-   i tus  e  weie  is  re   e tIS .-  a      Pat -.tl.  Its                       StttC GMat? tati                                                             -
ctsyieitnyit   hai  ees-_     y    w  sen -   rel.l-   ad A 1 at-w                  e.  etasd    eteaaar w.  atrck l  srwS   en    wel.i
Sisali en p.t La a  ta eIyL               eweS-ead1 '-esei'wdS  iemerdee   cldrtasls
Thtrd heyl  hid  haIr   sal'S. itN ad  tee.dati.                    tatatwa Lea-tre tenet.Twewa teaA(Sat e.elw) - wttaad retetA
OPM-4                                                                                         ettAu AttA .
Ceti liawi tiul seth bce  eet iteicadl - head  dealt pie thee-isP Is            Ieiee  al-slew rea          . twew   t-sfs    ttIPs"        -cbea    ae
eectId     da_Is)t.    t ar (P-e tt  leS-ee; lIlt,           W tIre is  :eet.dAnn. ptca  las- et she                         1ci -Westwtidcei trw -b-   es.-t
AN       P                       .- -  L.eeg LArwt.  secPlt   .as.                          a    wt 2~    .  .M   -II  -_ee   i  itew   tet.  is nW t  w..- Ms.b.tePL
is htlIt  liee I    is   ItId   fdcc- ; W.tee..1M    a.                                          ..IL     .FA               ..it            I.,A   -       -t          PA
twiwat reenlist watw tar tkeiiaidt - pastel dec- . ec s.tee1c1..id=
pitS  can ret naiad  It- tieshet tate. lire a,dPI--- tie_.s  dc cc.b
iswes.riwcet Zt-,Idt  itwprltldheeils  ieiq.isa. -1Ie                                                                                                      -
Cm   ta-rh  watitd  we bI   elite  raw .c c ita    tte
i-chit  it the tsheId a. at he. Ic   i  P ilePptietia. pert PA
lb. dye A. testLaL  lb  itattttase  ade
Ace    .Fwtirt  wtL- ii Itetp ess etwtlai-  tec    ehi   ad petal
-P hpe   iptSt.sh.  w  rrt   ea   ee-    steta



- 29 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
FCONOHIC INJDICATUS
CROSS WAITOIAL nODOCT 1T  16983                                                           MAL RAT! oF GtOITr! In constant prite.)
US6 WIn.          2                              1975-78 CAv.)     1979-31        1983
CUP at Market rrse                         707.1         100.0                               -.5               5.0          7.1
CreM  DDo_*tis  UTeMOin'rt                 269.9          39.4                              52.1              33.8        -66.5
Grams Vactioal SavLig                       33.9           4.9
Currone  Account  alafiC                  -226.2          32.3
ExportD et Goode. WS                       372.9          52.7                              .4.2              24.8         47.4
aoprt. of Goods. le                       -617.0          B7.3                               2.6              11.2          3.0
*    ov     . Uo=  FORcz AND FrIDUCTVT   to 1983
Value Added                    Labor Fore*                  V.A. Per Vorkar
us,an          1               Thm           2 
Agrieulture                243.9       32.4               313.36     69.0                778.5      47.0
InhutTy                    140.9       15.7                 36.3      8.0              3,881.5    234.1
Saotycee a  Unallocatud   367.9        48.9                104.4    23.0               3,523.9     212.6
Total/Average           752.7      100.0                454.0   100.0               1,657.9     100.0
CUZEAL GOVNMT r flW
UK Ing.            Percmnt of CDp
hT_             1961       L95 562 (AV.)
Carrmt RecDate                  81873            21.4           16.8
Car'nt hpenuture               -11.316           27.3           24.2
Currant Dalunca                 -2.443            5.9            7.4
Capital Erpanditura             -4.516           1.L           15.6
Overall DaLance                 -7.029           17.0           23.1
EwternaL Aemistance (net)        7.155           17.3           23.2
;M-r. CDIT AIM PRICES
.18 1      1982        1983
(Million CM Outarandig end-Period)
Honey and Onasl4Hoy                         9.630     9.572       10.0I 5
Clal  on GowCrowemt                        2.434     3.611        4.216
Claim On Private Sector                    11.263    12.758       13.869
(Preren-e or Index Numbers)
Moy and Quasi-Hony as Z: of GD2              23.8      25.0         24.4
GeneraL Prtce Indez (1980 - 100)            111.9     121.3         127.2
Amnal Percentage DCang.s  n
Genral Pric  Index                           11.9       8.4          4.9
Clef. on Goewn                               49.5      51.2         14.5
Claim  On Private Sector                     11.7      14.8          8.7
Note: AU coversion to dollars to thD tabLe are at the average exchange -at prevailing dung the period covered-.
F'bDary. 1985



- 30 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5
TW13 ,  P4f119 no CAPTTh3 nag
eAIiE n0 PA1W DW                                                                                     16r1CMAND3St flIMT  (1391-li Lu.1
1972       291             3S1    191,2        3963                                           n sn o
Tram Orae4.                                   3.
nob       e113.                               43.
Import of  moojg* 313              144.7       173.4         312.11 I12.3        372.9         Al Other camiitiA                    7 3.
S_ten of Coed m                  -t14.3      -213.6         -!G1.4  .420.3    -617.0
_eue    a (dGeNP  ct - l           -0.1          ly         --..fl   7M T       !U 5                TotaL                       272.7        300.0
tatenot P?"to (mt)                 -2.0       -11.0          -23.4  -34.9       -33.6
Wlorai   EM tue                     14.5      -27.6          -20.0  -30.7       -23.0
DII., flet,r rPamat. (mm)          -3. 1          .3           19.9   13.        36.4
me tramfera           t             31.2       120.4 -1.1   34.3                   .1. *-f Dnem.' 21. 1913
Balanc. M Garvet Account            11y      -T11           - 175F  -2377      -alE'!
hta  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ue tr MP
Direct Nuuil    S usume..t          10.3         4.4           22.3   14.9         .9          PrbItl  P6t. Ijl. __wimga                   1.01?.
ftt M 4 LUT Rorrftou                 3.6        35.4          151.4  306.1       172.2         UmugaR_me   mvat a so"
Ot b     -e                      (11.0A       n7.3)        M137.0) (222.0)    (196.3)          *Otal o1feteia   mm Numn                   1.171.I
AM mttu                           (-2.4)    tU2.1)           (33.7) (-33.9)    r-n.2 )
ateal Coat.                          3.4        13.6           32.9   31.0        13.5
Oiler CaP Le1 (.)                  -14.2        -1.9         -14.7  -19.,          7.4         DMnR          U  I .T 
Orb,m hLoes *A.e.                  -32.2        -0.9
tnrnu  ifn Official amrwo (4.)  17S .?6"                       E                                  blDaft. &Sal.        _*ot-U 
cmg Official 3...eue (an  yew)  43.7            36.4          179.7  323.3        9t.S
Not Official Roarwo. Cam  year)    14.3        -21.4         -131.2  -16.2       -44.7
Pel sd Related NnetwlL.
Imots                           ..          ..             .       .          .
of sbLgt Pperolem           9,.9        30.6            3.9   43.0        32.6
Ex"rn                           -           -              -      7.1       20.3
Of alblh: Petroleum                         -                   7.1        20.J         11311DM 3t MU    !of Wee *t11 wri. 2934
3331 mill=a
EAT! OF ttenulofUf 
Ortaranjieg mmd hialermi          U.         3
uS11.00 - M                       ".54        43.6t         4.26   32.15        33.60         U.iiabu,                          0.3         33.9
omeoaist Int. Uuiiabse             75
l1 Rato of debt serice to eapone of peot  ad _o-f.etor mule.
?ebeuou. 190



- 31 -
ANNEX 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITANIA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(as of September 30, 1984)*
Amount (less cancellations) 1/
US$ Million
Loan or
Credit Number    Year    Borrower       Purpose               Bank    IDA       Undisbursed
One Loan and Ten Credits fully disbursed                      66.0    39.8
888-MAU           1979    Mauritania   Urban and Rural
Development                  8.0          1.48
1747-KAU         1980    SNIM           Guelbs Iron Ore       60.0                  0.37
1068-MAU 2/      1981    Mauritania   Gorgol Irrigation               15.0          4.14
1175-MAU         1982    Mauritania   Petroleum                        3.0          1.59
1214-MAU         1982    Mauritania   Second Education                 5.7          3.36
1231-MAU         1982    Mauritania   Fourth Highway                   4.0          3.13
1292-MAU         1982    Mauritania   Second Technical
Assistance                   4.6          2.99
1414-MAU 3/      1983    Mauritania   Second Technical                 8.1          8.1 3/
Assistance to
Rural Sector
TOTAL                              126.0    88.2        25.16
of which has been repaid         66.0      1.9
Total now outstanding              60.0    86.3
Amount sold                  63.4
of which has been repaid    63.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA    60.0    86.3
Total undisbursed                   0.37   24.79        25.16
1/  Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/  Beginning with Credit 1068-MAU, credits have been denominated in Special
Drawing Rights. The dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar
equivalents at the time of credit negotiations for the IDA amounts and the
dollar equivalents as of September 30, 1984, for the undisbursed amounts.
3/ Not yet effective
*    The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to
the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



3Z -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
MAURITANIA
INDUSTRIAL AND ARTISAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION 1:     TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 1 year
(b)  Project Prepared by:            Government and IDA
(c)  Identification:                 Through supervision
of ongoing first IDA
project (Cr. 888-MAD)
(d) Appraisal Mission:               March 1984
(e)  Negotiations:                   February 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness: September 1985.
SECTION II:    SPECIAL IDA IMPLEMENTATION ACTION
PPF (US$ 140,000) to finance CFPP in preparing the
training of accountants.
SECTION III:   SPECIAL CONDITIONS
1.             The Goverment or BMDC, as the case may be, have given
assurances on the following major points:
(i) consultation between IDA and the Government on the
conclusions of the review of the incentives system and of
the institutional set up for industrial promotion to be
carried out under the proposed project (paras 27 and 29);
(ii) consultation between IDA and the Government followirg the
review of interest rates and the study of the bankiig
system (para 39);



- 33 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
(iii)government compensation in favor of BMDC in the
event of non repayment of the loans extended to MIE
and SOCOGIM (para 48).
2.        Special Conditions of Effectiveness would be:
(i)  the enactment by the Military Council of the modification
to the Investment Code (para 25);
(ii) the submission to IDA of SOCOGIM's reorganization plan
and repayment schedule (para 48);
(iii)the payment by BCH of a UM 50 million cash
contribution towards BMDC's share capital increase
(para 50);
(iv) the incorporation in BMDC's 1984 balance sheet of UM 49
million additional provisions for bad debts (para 50);
and
(v)  the execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and BMDC (para 62).
3.        A Special Condition of Disbursement for the OTM component
would be the conversion, on terms acceptable by IDA, of OTM's
short-term debts towards the social security system and towards the
banks into long-term debts (para 59).



IBRD 18714
MAURITANIA
A   HT9 A4OC* a m am               l,-ltim
ll "   S           ~~(.1  C';YI4ecavwsn                     7                       1S
--I  GIUWS                          A    aTm NMn0aml, ad madUm       * -           0          M
A                                   A   OTM Ptd 1      Jnd g    e n d          9.  
*       n                                                     -J  O j
_-_ -      . dw Imw''IW UWfayIui.n
f u'n                                                  |NM A L I
___'_____                                                It'-
z~~~wd                                                                  maaels  -  
ICILOUiETEKS        -                               !                                                                4
C'                                      I fP Dereki
tU   -  J     ?                                 #             ''''''X''' ' '''SS'' -- ;W 
Tidlikio,*             -     1
IYNOUAHCHOTTW0uirX_    
-             t ,--n                a M                ,
ar~~ *               )      :-ueArS ~*   Derd* t-
0' ~  ~     ~    ~    '
-I~~~~M                       
-16e  St  Louis}X~~ rimJarea                          *        *b
-     c%eaar         Maam- 'A           Jl>                  Lern _-f _r.ouss
,             >s I,, or                                                       <-^~~~~~~~r 
DAKAl 3~~~akeldC;t                                                  M      A       LI_
.~~                                                                              ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - p.p- 
S E N E G AL                                                                                     ,
)                                                         fJ RY 1a_5
". 16                                  It'                                 raow_
JANUARY 1985






