Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIClAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 13842
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
LOAN 3434-ZIM (IBRD)
CREDIT 2331-ZIM (IDA)
JANUARY 3, 1995
Country Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Zimbabwe Dollar
Appraisal (October 1991): US$ I = Z$ 5.0
Closing (December 1993): US$ 1 = Z$ 6.9
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFC         Agricultural Finance Corporation
AZC         Air Zimbabwe Corporation
CSC         Cold Storage Commission
DANIDA    Danish International Development Agency
DMB         Dairy Marketing Board
EFF         Extended Fund Facility
ERS         Export Retention Scheme
ESAF        Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESAP        Economic Structural Adjustment Program
ESW         Economic and Sector Work
FCA         Foreign Currency Accounts
FER         Framework for Economic Reform
FY          Fiscal Year (see note below)
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GMB         Grain Marketing Board
IBRD        Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IDA         International Development Association
IMF         International Monetary Fund
LDP         Letter of Development Policy
M2          Broad Money
MIU         Monitoring and Implementation Unit
NOCZIM      National Oil Corporation of Zimbabwe
NRZ         National Railroad of Zimbabwe
OGIL        Open General Import License
PCR         Project Completion Report
PFP         Policy Framework Paper
PSIP        Public Sector Investment Program
PTC         Post and Telecommunication Company
SAP         Structural Adjustment Program
SDF         Social Development Fund
ZESA        Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority
ZIC         Zimbabwe Investment Centre
ZISCO       Zimbabwe Iron and Steel Corporation
Z$          Zimbabwe dollar
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Otfice of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
January 3, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Zimbabwe -
Structural Adjustment Program (Loan 3434-ZIM and Credit 2331-ZIM)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Zimbabwe - Structural Adjustment Program (Credit
233 1-ZIM and Loan 3434-ZIM) prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II contributed by the
Borrower.
The main objective of the loan and credit was to support the first phase of the Government's five-
year (1991-95) structural adjustment program (SAP) in the areas of budget deficit reduction, external
trade liberalization, and domestic deregulation. The program also included a number of sectoral
initiatives and actions to address the impact of adjustment on the poor.
The overall implementation of the SAP progressed well, despite a severe drought in 1991/92.
Trade liberalization and some aspects of deregulation (pricing and marketing reforms) proceeded more
rapidly than anticipated, but the drought upset both the fiscal and balance-of-payments targets and
undermined the supply response to the program. Other factors, well articulated in the Borrower's
contribution, which negatively affected progress were: the failure to develop and implement
expeditiously a comprehensive strategy for parastatal reform; a poorly defined framework for dealing
with the social dimensions of adjustment; limited institutional capacity; and the lack of coherent
coordination of donor activities and funds.
Although the drought and its aftermath led to great hardships which tested the national resolve,
commitment to the adjustment program appears strong. Overall, the project outcome is rated as
satisfactory.    Institutional development  is  rated  as  modest and  sustainability  as  likely.
The PCR  is of good quality.  Part II provides an excellent assessment of the program's
performance and implementation lessons.
The planned audit will evaluate recent performance in program implementation, particularly in the
areas of civil service and parastatal reform and poverty alleviation aspects.
Attachment
T1his document has a restricted distribution and mnay be used by recipients only in the performnance of their official duties. Its contents
mnay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZMABWE
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
LOAN 3434-ZIM (IBRD)
CREDIT 2331-ZIM (IDA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface                                                                                  i
Evaluation Summary                                                                     iii
Part I     Program Implementation Assessment                                             1
A.  Program Objectives and Design                                                 1
- The Need for Economic Policy Reform                                       1
- The Government Response: The Framework for Economic Reform                2
- The Objectives and Design of SAP                                          3
- The Specific Conditions for Release of Second Tranche                     4
- The Role of the IMF                                                       5
B.  Achievement of Program Objectives                                             5
- The Overall Outcome of the Program                                        5
- The Effectiveness of the Operation in Achieving its Specific Objectives   8
C.  The Sustainability of the Program Achievements                               14
D.  The Bank Performance                                                         17
- The Role in Policy Formulation in the 1980s                              17
- Effectiveness in the Supervision, Monitoring and Implementation of SAP   17
- Cofinancing of SAP                                                       17
E.  The Borrower Performance                                                     18
- Effectiveness in Preparation and Appraisal of SAP                        18
- Commitment to the Adjustment Process                                     18
- Effectiveness in Monitoring and Implementation of SAP                    19
- Effectiveness in Procurement and Disbursement for SAP                    19
F.  Key Lessons for Subsequent Adjustment Programs                               19
This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONT'D)
Part II    Statistical Annexes                                                        22
Appendices
A. Aide-Memoire of PCR Mission                                             29
B. Borrower's Contribution to the PCR                                      32
C. Miscellaneous Appendices                                                52
Map



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Ln. 3434 - ZIM (IBRD)
Cr. 2331 - ZIM (IDA)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Structural Adjustment Program in
Zimbabwe, for which loan 3434-ZIM and credit 2331-ZIM in the amounts of US$ 125 million and
US$ 50 million equivalent, respectively, were approved on January 21, 1992.
The loan and credit were closed on December 31, 1993. They were fully disbursed, and the
last disbursement took place in February 1994. Cofinancing of the project was provided by
Denmark.
The PCR was prepared by Andrew Goudie, Consultant to AF6CO, Africa Region and
reviewed by Lloyd McKay, Task Manager, Fred King, Country Officer, Ataman Aksoy, Acting
Division Chief, AF6CO, and Gene Tidrick, Lead Economist, AF6DR. The borrower provided
comments that are included as an appendix to the PCR.
Preparation of this PCR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in April 1994.
The borrower contributed to the preparation of the PCR by providing views that are reflected in the
mission's Aide-Memoire, by preparing its own Evaluation of the project's execution and initial
preparation (see Appendix B), and by commenting on the draft PCR.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Ln. 3434 - ZIM (IBRD)
Cr. 2331 - ZIM (IDA)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction.
1.    Bank Role prior to SAP. [paragraph 62-63, 69]1/ During the 1980s, the Bank focussed
on a program of Economic and Sector Work (ESW), aimed at fostering an awareness of the need for
a broad-based economic policy reform. This work, in conjunction with the informal work and advice
provided by the Resident Mission, was instrumental in assisting the Government in defining its
macroeconomic and sectoral policy. In particular, the Country Economic Memorandum of 1987 and
the Trade Liberalization Study in 1988 played an important role in the development of policy. The
ESW was accompanied by a modest, but increasingly important, lending program that was directed at
supporting infrastructure, family planning and health care and poverty alleviation.
2.    The Objectives and Design of SAP. [para. 11] The principal objective of the Structural
Adjustment Program (SAP) was to support the implementation of the initial stage of the Government's
Economic Structural Adjustment Program (ESAP) in the following four key areas: reduction of the
fiscal deficit; trade reform through the establishment of the appropriate exchange rate and the
expansion of the Open General Import License (OGIL) system and Export Retention Scheme (ERS);
deregulation of the domestic economy; and alleviation of the impact of adjustment on the poorest
sections of the population.2/
3.     The Specific Conditions for Release of Second Tranche. [para. 13]  Under the operation,
there were established six specific policy objectives, for which a satisfactory implementation was
deemed appropriate for the release of the operation's second tranche:
I/ Paragraph and Section numbers refer to the text in Part 1.
2/ In response to the emergency situation created by the drought, one amendment to the Credit Agrement was made,
permitting up to 20% of the Loan and Credit to be expended on foodstuffs. Associated with this aenndment was the tipulation
of revised procurement rules in this respect to facilitate the exceeding of the standard ICB limits.



- lv -
i)    Trade policy: expansion of the unrestricted OGIL system to include, by June 1992, goods
representing 15 percent of the aggregate value of imports during 1991; together with the
expansion of the ERS to permit at least 25 percent of export earnings to be retained;
ii)    Fiscal policy: reduction of the fiscal deficit (excluding grants) for FY 1991/92 to no more
than 8.3 percent of GDP, with such deficit being further reduced by the net revenues arising
from the measures undertaken since October 1991;
iii)    Public enterprise policy: reduction in the overall operational deficit of the major public
enterprises to a maximum of Z$370 million for FY 1991/92;
iv)    Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP): implementation of the PSIP for FY 1991/92 to
be satisfactorily undertaken, and the Government to have consulted with the Bank on the
major components of the PSIP for FY 1992/93;
v)     Civil Service staffing: the number of positions in the Civil Service to have been reduced by
5,000 by June 30 1992; and
vi)    Consumer tariffs: Post and Telecommunications Commission and the Zimbabwe Electricity
Supply Authority to have been permitted to adjust consumer tariffs to cover specific cost
categories agreed with the Bank.
4.    Financing. [para. 12] The SAP was approved by the Board of Executive Directors on
January, 23 1992. It included an IBRD Loan of US$125 million and an IDA Credit of
US$50 million. In addition, cofinancing was subsequently provided by Denmark, in accord with the
Grant Agreement of December 29, 1992, which established a Trust Account for DKr. 75 million.
Project Experience and Results. [Section B]
5.    There are several factors that render it impossible to isolate the specific impact of the SAP.
First, the operation was an integral element of the Government's overall Framework for Economic
Reform (FER), and, as such, it was one of several major influences on the economy. Second, the
very severe drought in 1991/92 was undoubtedly a massive exogenous shock that had a major
constraining influence on the response to the reform program and - to a lesser degree - on the
implementation of the program, itself. A more meaningful analysis of the program is gained from an
assessment of the implementation of the policy reforms, together with an assessment of the post-
drought recovery.
6.    The overall conclusion of the PCR is that the implementation of both the SAP, in particular,
and of the Government FER, in general, have progressed well throughout the life of the project, 1992
to 1994. From one perspective, the Government program of reform could be defined as gradualist,
having now spanned almost a decade since the need for reform was initially identified. It is,
however, more appropriate to regard the program as one with two phases: the first phase up to 1990
was characterized by efforts to define the most effective reform program through considered study
and preparation; while the second phase, subsequent to the Budget of July 1990 and the establishment
of the FER, was marked by concerted and committed progress in implementing the reform. While
implementation was not uniformly rapid across the breadth of the program, it was, nonetheless, fast
in some respects and, indeed, accelerated, despite the serious external shocks that hit Zimbabwe at
this time. Progress in other respects has been less effective; in particular, the reform of public
enterprises, the provisions to shield the most vulnerable groups of society, and the containment of the
fiscal deficit have been major concerns.



- v -
7.    The drought-induced recession has had such a major short-term depressive impact on the
supply response to the implementation of the FER, it is difficult to determine the effectiveness of the
reforms in establishing a sustainable long-term growth trend. The agricultural sector has rebounded
strongly from its trough of 1992, and recovery of the industrial sector began in the second half of
1993.
8.    The Risks to Program Sustainability. [Section C.] To date, the Government has shown
itself to be committed to the implementation of the reform program, and has withstood the extreme
pressures imposed by the drought without major amendment to its basic strategy. However,
considerable risks remain:
(a)    The management of public sector expenditures. The impact of continuing high levels of
public expenditure on the macroeconomy remains the primary risk to the adjustment program.
Private sector development will be put at serious risk without the curtailment of public
expenditures: notably, expenditures directed to supporting the parastatals, the public sector
wage bill, and defense-related activities;
(b)    The management of the social costs of adjustment. The measures to address the
transitional costs have been inadequate. Immediate measures both to mitigate the most serious
impacts and to promote the creation of employment opportunities at the micro level are
critical to maintain support for reform;
(c)    The rate of private investment and the efriciency of capital utilization. If high levels of
private investment are not sustained, and if there is not a significant improvement in the
efficiency with which capital is utilized, industrial competitiveness will not be enhanced
appropriately to sustain accelerated growth in an open economy;
(d)    The deregulation of the market. With unemployment becoming an increasingly central
issue, the role of the small-scale formal and informal sectors enterprises in creating
employment opportunities has become more crucial. The development of these sectors - and,
hence, the social stability of the program - will be put at risk without more decisive moves to
deregulate further at the micro level;
(e)    The development of export markets. Having now moved rapidly to establish an economy
that is subject to international competition, sustained growth will depend on promoting exports
to maintain an external equilibrium and to generate growth;
(f)    The prospect of continuing regional stability. With political uncertainties persisting in the
region there is a continuing risk to economic development.
9.     Supply Response. These concerns with regard to the future sustainability of the program
appear to have contributed to a more muted supply response than would have been desired at this time
of the program's implementation. In view of this weaker response, the issues surrounding the social
costs of the adjustment have become all the more pressing, in order both to meet the needs of the
most vulnerable groups and to ensure the continuing acceptability and sustainability of the economic
reform process itself. Without decisive and well directed policy development in these fields, the
sustainability of the program would, indeed, be problematic.
10.   Effectiveness and Commitment of Government to Reform. [para. 68-69] In the late
1980s, Zimbabwe was not in a state of crisis and was deemed creditworthy by the external
community. Thus, while the Government acknowledged that major economic reforms were
necessary, it did consider it possible to spend some time undertaking necessary preparatory analysis.



- vi -
Such preparatory work might have been undertaken much earlier; nonetheless, the fundamental
approach of analyzing options and preparing before acting can not be faulted. Indeed, this process
played a most important role in the development of the internal political consensus and in assisting the
Government in taking full ownership of the program. This ownership has been reflected in the
considerable commitment to the implementation of the reform program. Indeed, reforms in price
decontrol, marketing and trade liberalization proceeded more quickly than was originally planned.
Some elements of the adjustment have, however, been less effectively implemented and remain a high
priority for the coming year: notably, in the adjustment of the public sector finances in general, and
of the parastatals, in particular, and in the commitment to addressing the social dimensions of
adjustment. The overall conclusion is, however, one of the Government displaying a serious
commitment to reform, both in undertaking the preparation and design of the program, and in this
first phase of its implementation.
11.   Effectiveness in Project of SAP. [paras. 63-64, 70-72]  The monitoring and
implementation of SAP has been conducted through the Monitoring and Implementation Unit (MIU)
of the Ministry of Finance. It would be helpful to develop a more systematic and regular reporting
system for informing the participating donor community of progress. Both the procurement and
disbursement aspects of the project were satisfactorily undertaken by the Reserve Bank and the
Resident Mission. The Statement of Expenditures procedures worked efficiently and effectively and
the Reserve Bank was successful in establishing the necessary systems to facilitate the process.
12.   Specifically, the second tranche review mission (September 1992) concluded that the
implementation of the reform program had progressed well in most areas, despite the intervention of
the drought. Two waivers to the Loan Agreement were sought and granted. These were with respect
to the progress in the reduction of the overall fiscal deficit, and in the reduction of the parastatal
deficits; in both cases, the financial overruns were directly attributable to the impact of the drought
and the legitimate response that the Government pursued. The tranche was, consequently, released in
October 1992.
Summary of Key Lessons Learned. [Section F.]
13.   The primary lessons from the Zimbabwe experience may be summarized as follows:
14.   Preparation and Ownership are Important. One of the strengths of the approach to reform
has been the analysis and policy design that has been initiated prior to the implementation of reform.
Moreover, in building an internal consensus and in establishing a clear ownership of the program, the
Government has been able to maintain a high level of commitment as the phased reforms have been
put in place. While this fundamental approach has been successful, a more rapid move to initiate the
preparatory work would have been beneficial and would have facilitated, faster introduction of the
reform measures, themselves. The Bank effectively contributed to design through formal and
informal economic and sector work but ownership rightly remained with government and this can be
time consuming.
15.   Fiscal, Monetary and Exchange Rate Policy must be Coordinated and Share the Task of
Macro Management. The importance of a coherent and comprehensive program of macroeconomic
reform is clearly demonstrated by the Zimbabwe experience. With less fiscal deficit reduction than
was expected, a more substantial monetary adjustment was imperative in order to retain
macroeconomic equilibrium, and this dampered private sector investment and the supply response.
16.   The Control of Government Expenditure is Central. A significant acceleration in the rate
of adjustment of expenditure would have facilitated a loosening of monetary policy and, thereby, a
more rapid and more marked supply response to structural adjustments. High levels of Government



- vii -
expenditure, and associated high inflation and high interest rates, constrain the rate of private sector
development.
17.    Structural Reforms of Parastatals is Often Difricult and Hence Requires Priority
Attention. The implementation of parastatal reform revealed important shortcomings: while the price
deregulation and adjustment were rapidly and appropriately undertaken, the programs to enhance
enterprise efficiency and competitiveness through more fundamental structural adjustment of the
enterprises were very slow to be implemented. In view of the long lags entailed in the structural
reform process, it would have been advisable to have accorded the structural reforms to increase
efficiency equal importance in implementation with price reform. Greater clarity is required in
defining the role of the parastatals; notably, the social functions (e.g. fulfilling the Government's
strategic grain strategy) that they are expected to perform and the transparency with which these
functions are financed. Moreover, improvements to managerial capacity were necessary, such as a
more appropriate salary structure and through the attracting of established proven managers from the
private sector.
18.   Deregulation is Important to Achieve a Supply Response. Major inhibitions to the
establishment and trading of enterprises prevail at the micro level. Only with the rapid elimination of
such constraints - especially, those under local authority control - will the small-scale and informal
sectors be empowered to respond to the macroeconomic measures that have been taken to establish an
appropriate business environment. In view of the employment-generating strengths of these sectors,
such steps are especially important. In general, the reform program has had a Central Government
focus and would have benefitted from a parallel concern for local Government constraints over
economic activity.
19.    Market Based ERS is Better than OGIL. External trade reform suggests that the
establishment of a market-determined exchange rate such as that inherent in the ERS system should
take precedence in the reform process. In contrast to the OGIL system, the tradeable ERS retentions
provide a freely operating market, with a market-determined rate that has progressively become more
representative of the whole economy as the scheme has expanded. It provides a self-financing market
mechanism, together with an in-built incentive to exporters.
20.   Protecting Social Services and Ensuring Access by the Poor is Important for Maintaining
Social Achievements and Sustaining Support for Reform. It is apparent that a more integrated
approach to the design and implementation of the economic reform program and of social policy
would have facilitated a more rapid and effective response to ameliorating the social impact of the
adjustment program. The poor initial anticipation of the impact of economic reform, together with
the inadequacy of the analysis of the most appropriate and feasible response, was a major
shortcoming. Real social expenditures, were not as effectively maintained as they should have been
and more attention should have been given to ensuring continued access to social services by the
poor. Informed and systematic analysis of the priorities and effectiveness of social expenditure should
have received more attention.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Ln. 3434 - ZIM (IBRD)
Cr. 2331 - ZIM (IDA)
Part I. Program Implementation Assessment
A.    Program Objectives and Design
The Need for Economic Policy Reform.
1.    In the years following Independence, the primary objective of the Government's economic and
social development strategy was the rapid reduction in the degree of social and racial inequality
throughout the country. In particular, in view of the limited extent to which the black population had
been integrated into the formal economy prior to Independence, there was a strong focus in the
strategy on investment in human resources and the development of social programs. At the time of
Independence in 1980, the country had been tightly controlled at the center and was heavily inward-
looking, largely stemming from the period of sanctions from 1965-1980 that had necessitated an
extreme self-sufficiency. In the immediate post-Independence period, the public sector continued to
play a dominant role in economic activity through direct investment in the productive sectors, the
provision of subsidies for rural development, the continuation of foreign exchange and price controls,
and the continued regulation of private investment.
2.    In the 1980s, the principal achievements of the Government in promoting development were
undoubtedly in the social field. This is clearly illustrated by contrasting the primary social indicators
in 1990 with those of 1980: primary school enrollment increased from 1.2 million to 2.2 million;
secondary school enrollment increased from 74,000 to 671,000; infant mortality declined from
86 deaths per thousand births to 47; the immunization rate for children increased from 25 percent to
82 percent; and the rate of growth of population fell to 2.8 percent per annum in the early 1990s.
As a consequence of this progress, Zimbabwe's social indicators are now significantly ahead of other
Sub-Saharan African countries, and compare favorably with other developing countries.
3.    While there were, indeed, major advances towards fulfilling the social objectives, the
economic development of the country proved to be more elusive, with stagnant living standards
throughout the decade. In particular, the annual average rate of growth of GDP between 1980-90 was
3.2 percent, about the same as the population growth rate.



4.     This relatively disappointing growth performance was attributable to many factors:
particularly, the continuing controls over domestic trade, prices, and the allocation of foreign
exchange, and the dominant role of the public sector, with its constraining impact on private sector
development. At that time, there was considerable concern surrounding the low level of private
capital expenditure, and its impact on future productivity and competitiveness. More recent evidence
suggests that the investment estimates over this period may have understated the true level of capital
expenditure, and that, in fact, the rate of capital expenditure grew rapidly after 1985. It is apparent
that investors did respond both to the favorable elements in the economic environment in the late
1980s and early 1990s - such as the liquidity of enterprises, the favorable tax incentives and the
negative real interest rates - and in the expectation of the implementation of an economic reform
program - especially, in anticipation of exchange rate devaluation. Thus, while investment appears to
have recovered over the late 1980s, it is now apparent that the efficiency with which this capital was
utilized was poor, producing a low output-capital ratio, and that it was also relatively capital
intensive.
5.    Irrespective of the precise trend in capital expenditures, economic reform was essential to
enhance the efficiency with which all economic resources - and, particularly, capital expenditures -
were being utilized. The lack of private sector development and efficiency was seen as attributable to
three key factors: firstly, the underlying weakness of the macroeconomy and the perceived risk that
this created for potential private investors; secondly, the extensive and intensive nature of the
regulation in the domestic economy; and, thirdly, the restricted access to foreign exchange. Not only
did these weaknesses hamper the development of the formal sector, but they equally impacted on the
development of the informal sectors of the economy.
6.     Throughout the 1980s, the Government fiscal deficit stood in excess of 10 percent of GDP,
increasing inflationary pressure in the economy and potentially crowding out private investment.
Furthermore, while the current account of the balance of payments was effectively managed through
extensive controls over the allocation of foreign exchange, thereby preventing any damaging build-up
of external debt, this severely constrained the flow of imports.
The Government Response: The Framework for Economic Reform.
7.     Towards the end of the 1980s, it became apparent that, while there was no major economic
crisis imminent, the prevailing economic development strategy was not achieving its desired economic
objectives. In consequence, a revised strategy was developed with the launching of the Framework
for Economic Reform (FER) in 1991. This program of reform specifically seeks to address the key
policy constraints that had hindered economic development throughout the 1980s and, thereby,
establish sustained higher growth and employment. The principal secondary objectives were the
enhancement of public sector efficiency and the enhancement of private sector development.
8.    Within this broad framework, the FER has five key policy goals:
i. reduction of the fiscal deficit and reform of monetary policy;
ii. trade liberalization;
iii. deregulation of the domestic economy to promote private sector activities;
iv. sector specific policy initiatives; and
v. measures to alleviate the transitional costs of the reform program on the most vulnerable
groups of society.



- 3 -
These fundamental objectives have not undergone any radical revision since their inception in 1991.
9.     The FER, therefore, specifically embodies a move away from the comprehensive system of
direct economic controls and regulations that had characterized both the pre-Independence period and
the immediate post-Independence period of 1980-90, to a fundamentally different economic structure
with a far greater reliance on market forces and indirect instruments of economic management.
Moreover, through this strategy, the Government is seeking to promote higher levels of investment in
the private sector in order to accelerate GDP growth in excess of the rate of growth of population,
while, at the same time, implementing the appropriate policies to ease the transitional social costs of
the adjustment process.
10.   In one important respect, the primary objective of the immediate post-Independence period -
namely, the implementation of rapid steps to reduce the substantial imbalances in social and racial
equality - remains of central importance. However, the FER acknowledges that this would be most
rapidly and most appropriately achieved through an improvement of the economic investment climate
in order to accelerate growth and enhance the creation of employment opportunities. In addition, the
FER explicitly recognizes that the necessary levels of investment expenditure would need to be
generated by the private sector, with its access to the required technological knowledge and to the
requisite finance. Specifically, the strategy acknowledges that the attracting of direct foreign private
investment requires not only a pro-active investment regime, but a secure legal framework and a
minimum degree of domestic regulation.
The Objectives and Design of SAP.
11.   The principal objective of the Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) was to support the
implementation of the initial stage of the Government's Structural Adjustment Program, including the
steps already taken over the March 1991 to December 1991 period and the proposed steps for the first
9 months of 1992. In providing finance in the form of import support, the SAP directly sought to
contribute to the adjustment process by alleviating the immediate external finance constraint. With
respect to the policy objectives, the operation sought to support the following four key areas:
i)    Fiscal Policy: the fiscal deficit would be reduced by at least 3 percentage points of GDP in
the 1991/92 fiscal year. This adjustment would be accomplished without major tax revenue
increases, but rather through the rationalization of current and capital expenditures in accord
with the overall objectives of the Government's Structural Adjustment Program;
ii)    External Trade Policy: trade policy reform would focus on three elements: first, the
progressive movement towards an appropriate exchange rate; second the share of the value of
imported goods financed through the OGIL would be increased, and the ERS rate would be
increased; and, third, the tariff structure would be rationalized;
iii)    Domestic Regulatory Policy: deregulation of the domestic economy would be effected
through, first, the continuance of steps to remove price controls on all goods included in the
OGIL; second, the elimination of trading and transport restrictions, especially those affecting
grain movements; and, third, the further streamlining of legislation relating to investment
approvals and labor retrenchment procedures;



- 4 -
iv)    The Social Dimensions of Adjustment: the impact of the adjustment program on the poorest
sections of the population would be alleviated through sectoral initiatives and specific actions.
Specifically, the Social Development Fund would be established providing fee exemptions for
the poorest in society, fiscal incentives for training would be reviewed, and the capacity of
existing training institutions to assist in the alleviation of unemployment would be
strengthened.
12.   The SAP was approved by the Board of Executive Directors on January, 23 1992. It included
an IBRD Loan of US$125 million and an IDA Credit of US$50 million. In addition, was
subsequently provided by Denmark, in accord with the Grant Agreement of December 29, 1992,
which established a Trust Account for DKr. 75 million. Further, parallel financing was provided as
follows: African Development Bank (US$171.0 million); Canada (US$2.4 million); European Union
(US$10.0 million); Japan (US$16 million); Norad (US$5.3 million); United Kingdom
(US$27.3 million); Germany (US$17.3 million); United States (US$5.0 million) and Sweden
(US$18.3 million).
The Specific Conditions for Release of Second Tranche.
13.   The Letter of Development Policy identified a wide range of policy measures that the
Government was committed to introduce in parallel with the processing of the Bank operation. More
specifically, under the operation, there were established six specific policy objectives, for which a
satisfactory implementation was deemed appropriate for the release of the operation's second tranche:
i)    Trade policy: the expansion of the unrestricted Open General Import License (OGIL) system
to include, by June 1992, goods representing at least 15 percent of the aggregate value of
imports during 1991; together with the expansion of the Export Retention Scheme (ERS) to
permit at least 25 percent of export earnings to be retained;
ii)    Fiscal policy: the reduction of the fiscal deficit (excluding grants) for FY 1991/92 to no
more than 8.3 percent of GDP, with such deficit being further reduced by the net revenues
arising from the measures undertaken since October 1991 (the increase in the minimum tariff
to 10 percent; an additional 10 percent tariff applied to imports covered by the OGIL; and
the elimination of the manufacturer's rebate);
iii)    Public enterprise policy: the reduction in the overall operational deficit of the major public
enterprises3/ to a maximum of Z$370 million for FY 1991/92;
iv)    Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP): the implementation of the PSIP for FY 1991/92
to be satisfactorily undertaken, and the Government to have consulted with the Bank on the
major components of the PSIP for FY 1992/93;
v)    Civil Service staffing: the number of positions in the Civil Service to have been reduced by
5,000 by June 30 1992; and
3/ For this purpose, the following ten enterprises were included: NRZ, GMB, CSC, DMB, CMB, AZC, ZISCO, AFC,
NOCZIM, and ZESA.



- 5 -
vi)    Consumer tariffs: the Post and Telecommunications Comrnission and the Zimbabwe
Electricity Supply Authority to have been permitted to adjust consumer tariffs to cover
specific cost categories agreed with the Bank.
The Role of the IMF.
14.   The first program between the IMF and the Government was established with the agreement
of the Extended Fund Facility in January 1992. Subsequently, in September 1992, this agreement
was amended with the IMF approving a new three year program of parallel arrangements under the
Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) and the Extended Fund Facility (EFF), with the first
year program covering the period July 1992 to June 1993. The second annual arrangement, covering
the program year October 1993 to September 1994, was approved by the Executive Directors of the
IMF in February 1994. Under the first year program, a total of SDR 133.8 million was dispersed.
15.   Both the IMF program and the Structural Adjustment Program of the World Bank were
designed explicitly to support the implementation of the Government's Framework for Economic
Reform and, in consequence, there was strong complementarity between the two programs. Indeed,
the first tripartite Policy Framework Paper (PFP) was presented to the Bank's Committee of the
Whole in July 1992, with the second PFP being distributed in January 1994.
B. Achievement of Program Objectives.
The Overall Outcome of the Program.
16.   There are several factors that render it impossible to isolate the specific impact of the
Structural Adjustment Program. First, the operation was an integral element of the Government's
overall Framework for Economic Reform, and, as such, it was one of several major influences on the
economy. It would not, therefore, be meaningful to attribute the combined impact of the policy
reforms to the SAP alone. Thus, from this perspective, it is more appropriate to assess the global
impact of the combined policy measures, in conjunction with the substantial and various forms of
supportive external funding.
17.   Second, any external shock necessarily complicates the analysis of the impact of the internal
economic policy reform program. In the context of Zimbabwe, the very severe drought in 1991/92
was undoubtedly a massive exogenous shock that certainly had a major constraining influence on the
response to the reform program and - to a lesser degree - on the implementation of the program,
itself. Consequently, it is not even feasible to isolate the combined impact of the policy reform
program and its associated financing. A more meaningful analysis of the program is gained from an
assessment of the implementation of the policy reforms, together with an assessment of the post-
drought recovery and the degree to which its sustainability and strength appear to result from the
reform process.
18.   The overall conclusion of the PCR is that the implementation of both the Structural
Adjustment Program, in particular, and of the Government economic reform program, in general,
have progressed well throughout the life of the project, 1992 to 94.



19.   From one perspective, the Government program of reform could be defined as gradualist,
having now spanned almost a decade since the need for reform was initially identified. It is,
however, more appropriate to regard the program as one with two phases: the first phase up to 1990
was characterized by efforts to define the most effective reform program through considered study
and preparation; while the second phase, subsequent to the Budget of July 1990 and the establishment
of the FER, was marked by concerted and committed progress in implementing the reform. The
basic five year time horizon of the FER, defined in order to establish the primary reforms, would not
appear to warrant the description gradualist in the Zimbabwe context. While implementation was not
uniformly rapid across the breadth of the program, it was, nonetheless, strikingly fast in some
respects and, indeed, accelerated, despite the serious external shocks that hit Zimbabwe at this time.
Specifically, trade liberalization and pricing and marketing reforms proceeded more rapidly than
originally planned. Progress in other respects has been less effective; in particular, the reform of
public enterprises, the provisions to shield the most vulnerable groups of society and the containment
of public expenditure have been major concerns.
20.   The remainder of this section assesses the impact of the reform program on macroeconomic
developments (see Appendix D. 1)
21.    Economic Growth.  Following the introduction of the FER in early 1991, the early
indications were that its impact was indeed positive, with GDP growth accelerating to almost
5 percent in 1991 (see Appendix D.2). In addition, investment rose to about 22 percent of GDP,
suggesting that the central focus of the FER on the promotion of private sector activity, did have the
potential to accelerate growth sufficiently to raise living standards.
22.   The onset of the drought in 1991/92 rapidly induced a severe domestic recession that
dominated economic development for the next 18 months. As a result, GDP fell by almost 8 percent
in 1992, with the agricultural and forestry sector collapsing by 21 percent and manufacturing
declining by almost 10 percent. Necessarily, this had a severe impact on both incomes and the
purchasing power of those incomes. In the agricultural sector, output fell to its lowest level since
1983, with production in the cotton, maize and sugar sectors declining by between 70 and 75 percent
and with 25 percent of the nations' cattle herd lost as a direct result of the drought. In the
manufacturing sector, the drastic declines in the availability of agricultural raw materials, together
with a severe contraction in domestic demand, led to the gains of the previous four years being
overturned. This situation was, moreover, exacerbated by shortages of power and water and by the
tight control of credit policy that was necessitated by inflationary developments.
23.    The drought necessitated the importation of 2.5 million tons of food and the establishment of
a program for the free distribution of food to 40 percent of the population. In addition to this free
food distribution, the Government sought to alleviate the worst effects of the drought and re-establish
recovery through the distribution of agricultural inputs to smallholder farmers and through the
concessionary refinancing of debts of commercial and smallholder farmers.
24.   While the impact of the drought-induced recession of 1992 continued into the first half of
1993, the good rains did, nonetheless, lay the foundation for a rapid recovery. However, with the
continuing impact of the shortfalls in domestic demand, together with a tight monetary policy and
high interest rates, economic recovery was only firmly established in the second half of the year.
Consequently, provisional estimates for 1993 suggest GDP growth of only 2 percent. With
manufacturing anticipated to show a continuing contraction of almost 9 percent, there was, however,



a strong recovery in the agricultural sector with growth of 25 percent. In particular, cotton increased
production by 300 percent over the previous season, while tobacco recorded a record level of output.
25.   Thus, with the drought-induced recession having had a major short-term depressive impact on
the supply response to the implementation of the FER, it is difficult to determine the effectiveness of
the reforms in establishing a sustainable long-term growth trend. The agricultural sector rebounded
strongly with good rains in 1992/93 and recovery of the industrial sector began in the second half of
1993.
26.   Fiscal and Monetary Policy. Having averaged around 13 percent throughout the 1980s,
inflation accelerated rapidly to 29 percent by the end of 1991, as price controls were relaxed and
inflationary pressures became evident. The fiscal deficit and depreciation of the exchange rate in
1991 added to the inflationary pressure. Moreover, with the onset of the drought in 1991/92,
inflation accelerated rapidly due to the drought-induced shortages, and on account of the ending of
consumer subsidies and further price decontrol. Consequently, the consumer price index accelerated
to 46 percent in 1992, with half of this increase attributable to food (29 percent of the consumption
basket) for which prices rose by 71 percent.
27.   The Government addressed this severe inflationary trend primarily through a sharp tightening
of monetary policy and the raising of interest rates. In particular, in the fiscal year to June 1993,
broad money (M2) increased by only 15 percent, compared to a 27 percent growth of nominal GDP.
With the increased need for Government borrowing to finance the drought-affected fiscal deficit,
credit to the private sector increased by only 7 percent over this same year. Consequently, having
pursued a policy throughout the 1980s of maintaining the growth of M2 in line with the growth of
nominal GDP, the ratio of M2 to GDP fell sharply from 32 percent in 1989 to 24 percent in 1993.
With the pursuance of such a tight policy, prime bank lending rates rose from 20/25 percent in 1992
to 30/45 percent in the first half of 1993, before falling back somewhat in the second half of the year.
Nonetheless, real interest rates remained above 10 percent, causing considerable concern for the
impact on investment incentives, in addition to the impact that low credit availability had on the
working capital and investment financing needs. While the strictness of the monetary policy
undoubtedly delayed economic recovery, it was successful in bringing inflation down. From the peak
in August 1992, inflation fell steadily to a level of 20 percent by the end of 1993.
28.   As was noted above, the establishment of an appropriate fiscal policy was a central objective
of the SAP and it is considered in detail in the next section.
29.   External Trade Account. While good progress was made in many respects in 1991, as noted
above, serious stabilization problems emerged in the middle of 1991 with regard to the external
account. In consequence, the current account deficit increased from 3.8 percent of GDP in 1990 to
8.4 percent in 1991, largely as a result of the very rapid growth in imports in response to the pent-up
demand that was released by the program of trade liberalization and to the lax monetary policy. The
Government responded by devaluing the official exchange rate by 35 percent in the third quarter of
1991 in order to restore stability and external confidence in the reform program. Once again, the
impact of the drought overwhelmed the policy reforms in this field in 1992, with the value of exports
falling by 15 percent. While the imports of non-drought related goods fell sharply due to the
recession, imports of drought related products amounted to US$400 million, with the result that the
current account deficit rose sharply to 15 percent of GDP in 1992.



30.    In 1993, Zimbabwe suffered a second major external shock with the sharp deterioration in the
terms of trade. Thus, while export volumes increased by 12 percent, the value of exports was only
marginally increased. In particular, tobacco prices fell by 35 percent. Despite stagnant export
earnings, depressed import levels due to the recession and a drop in drought-related imports led to a
sharp fall in the current account deficit to around 5 percent of GDP in 1993.
The Effectiveness of the Operation in Achieving its Specific Objectives.
31.    There were four primary objectives of the SAP, as were outlined in paragraph 11 above.
32.    Fiscal Policy.  The original target under the FER was to establish a strong downward trend
in the aggregate budget deficit as a proportion of GDP, from the peak of 10.6 percent in 1990/91 to
5.0 percent by 1994/95 (see Appendix D.3). While a consistent reduction has not been achieved, this
is largely attributable to the impact of the expenditure measures deemed essential during the drought
of 1992, which were equivalent to 2.7 percent and 4.6 percent of GDP in 1991/92 and 1992/93,
respectively. As a consequence of these expenditures and the low revenues attributable to the
recession, the deficit rose sharply to 11.2 percent of GDP in 1992/93, having declined to 7.6 percent
in 1991/92. Thus, while monetary policy was strongly tightened over the 1992/93 year, fiscal policy
was relatively loose, with significant expenditure overruns being deemed necessary by both the
Government and donor community. With substantial shortfalls in the disbursement of external
assistance, leading to a relatively low inflow of counterpart funds, the fiscal deficit necessitated a
heavy overrun in the domestic borrowing requirement of the Govermnent relative to the original
program. As noted above, this had a major impact on the availability of private sector credit.
33.    The planned deficits for 1993/94 and 1994/95 of 5.8 percent and 3.4 percent, respectively,
were designed to re-establish the original trend, and, if these projections were to be fulfilled, the
adjustment could be seen as on track. However, the provisional estimates for 1993/94 suggests that,
although expenditures have been significantly compressed, the deficit remains high and the 5.8
percent target will not be reached.
34.    Specifically, with regard to the second tranche condition under the SAP, it was concluded at
the time (October 1992) that the 1991/92 deficit had exceeded the tranche condition by one percentage
point of GDP. In view of the extenuating circumstance of the drought, the condition was waived for
second tranche release. In fact, the revised data subsequently indicated that the 1991/92 deficit of 7.6
percent of GDP was only marginally in excess of the tranche condition (that is, 7.2 percent after
taking the account of the post-Budget measures in 1991), despite the impact of the drought-related
expenditures .4/
35.    Government expenditure was instrumental in four respects in dampening the supply response
to the program of economic reforms that were in train. First, high fiscal deficits contributed to the
high inflation rates over 1992/93 and this cut real incomes and domestic demand, thus exacerbating
the subsequent recession in domestic production and employment. Second, interest rates rose sharply
4/    It is unclear in the President's Report why the deficit condition was stated as 8.3% of GDP, with the condition being
further reduced following the post-Budget measures in 1991. The LDP stated the 1991/92 projection as 7.2% of GDP,
including all the 1991 measures.



-9 -
to counter the inflationary trends, potentially constraining investment. Third, the high levels of credit
extended to the public sector to finance the deficit effectively crowded out credit to the private sector.
Finally, the maintenance of high expenditure levels prohibited a more rapid decline in tax rates, and,
thus, reduced the incentive implications of lower corporate and personal taxation. Thus, from both
the perspective of domestic consumption and investment, the high levels of public expenditure have
acted to dampen the supply response of the private sector. There is, therefore, an urgent need to
more rapidly curtail public expenditures to facilitate private sector development.
36.   Within this aggregate program, the SAP focussed on three fiscal elements: parastatal reform,
Civil Service reform, and the PSIP. In each case, the objective was to enhance the efficiency with
which expenditures were deployed and to contribute to the macroeconomic adjustment in the fiscal
accounts. The importance of parastatal reform is evidenced by the fact that operating losses in
1991/92 were equivalent to almost 2 percent of GDP (financed partly from the budget and partly
through Government-guaranteed credit), while public sector wages and salaries were equivalent to
over 30 percent of total Central Government expenditure or 13.2 percent of GDP (see Appendix
D.4). The other key drain on the fiscal account - but which was not an explicit focus of the SAP -
was defense expenditure, which totalled 5.4 percent of GDP in 1991/92.
37.    Civil Service Reform. Within the FER, it was originally programmed that there would be a
25 percent reduction in the number of civil servants - excluding the health and education sectors -
phased over the subsequent four years (see Appendix D.5). In this way, the Government wage bill
would be reduced from 17 percent of GDP in 1990/91 to 13 percent in 1994/95, equal to the level
prevailing in 1986/87.
38.   While the second tranche condition under the SAP was more than achieved, with 7000 posts
being eliminated by June 30, 1992, compared to a target of 5000, the subsequent progress of the
reform has been more problematic. Indeed, by the end of June 1993, only 10,000 posts had been
eliminated, compared to a targeted 12,000. The delay in policy implementation in 1992/93 was, in
part, due to the Government's reluctance to add further to an already serious employment problem,
attributable not only to the drought and the recession in the world economy, but to the numbers of
school leavers that were entering the labor market.
39.   It is, perhaps, questionable whether it was appropriate for the policy to have focused on the
reduction in the number of posts, rather than the aggregate size of the public sector wage bill. In
view of the difficulty of determining whether the posts that were eliminated were originally staffed,
and, thus, whether the elimination of a post actually led to cost savings, it may have been more
appropriate to have focused on the aggregate wage bill. On the other hand, such a focus might have
posed further problems for the retention of key skilled personnel, if wage levels had been severely
depressed. Certainly, a more aggressive approach to the overall reform of the civil service structure
would have been desirable.
40.   Parastatal Reform.  In 1991, it was clear that the parastatal enterprises were in need of
substantial reform. Not only were they a major burden on the fiscal account, but the inefficiency of
their operations was having a detrimental impact on the competitiveness of private sector enterprises,
in general. Moreover, their monopoly status precluded the participation of private sector competitors
and the enhancement of efficiency through competition. Consequently, the Government initiated a
program to reduce the support to parastatals to Z$40 million by 1994/95 to improve their efficiency
and encourage private sector development.



- 10-
41.    The reform of the parastatal sector has not proceeded at the proposed pace and, to date, the
implementation of policy change has been disappointing. While the drought was undoubtedly a major
factor for some parastatals, the weakness of the reform is largely attributable to other factors. Thus,
explicit budgetary support for the parastatal sector remains very substantial, as does the level of credit
extended under Government guarantee by the banking sector. The heavy reliance on both these
financing mechanisms is instrumental in explaining the continuing role of the Government in
crowding out private sector activity and delaying the supply response. While a condition for the
release of the second tranche was the curtailment of the aggregate operating loss of the largest
parastatals in 1991/92 to a maximum of Z$370 million, actual loans totalled Z$600 million, with
around half being attributable directly to the drought-induced maize imports by the Grain Marketing
Board (GMB). The tranche condition was accordingly waived. Moreover, having planned for a
reduction by more than half in the aggregate loss in 1992/93, the outturn totalled Z$653 million. Of
this, Z$300 million was attributable to the losses incurred by GMB on account of the sale of imported
maize at below cost and the high purchase price established for local maize procurement.
42.    Several crucial weaknesses are apparent in the area at parastatal reforms. First, the manner
of implementing the reforms appears questionable, with considerably greater attention being given to
the removal of price regulations than to the resolving of the underlying structural problems in the
enterprises. The structural reform should have been conducted in parallel with the price reform, and
have been implemented more rapidly and effectively. Second, while the enterprises were
appropriately subject to serious appraisal, the process of study has been subject to major delays and
specific Action Plans and Corporate Plans are only now being designed. Third, the future role of
each parastatal in the economy remains with the commercial functions of some parastatals appearing
to be confused with the social functions, notably with respect to the strategic grain issue and the
maintenance of employment levels. Fourth, private sector involvement in the financial restructuring
process has, so far, been minimal. Fifth, a more effective monitoring system would have provided
policy makers with better information on enterprise performance and have facilitated more timely
policy adjustments. Finally, a greater concern to identify the priority enterprises and focus on them
would have been advantageous, especially in view of the limited capacity to implement broad-based
reform.
43.    An accelerated appraisal process with a more dynamic lead from the center, an explicit
definition of the enterprises' role, and a greater commitment to involving the private sector in a more
active implementation role were not accorded sufficient priority. Indeed, it is questionable that
comprehensive restructuring, especially of physical capital, should be undertaken in those cases where
private participation is ultimately anticipated.
44.    Public Sector Investment Program. The primary objective of the PSIP has been to establish
a more systematic approach to the management and monitoring of investment projects and assist in the
prioritization of investment proposals consistent with the underlying macroeconomic and sectoral
strategies. The Government has, therefore, continued to compile annual PSIPs and consulted with the
Bank in this process and, in this regard, fulfilled the second tranche condition.5/
5/ While the actual 1991192 PSIP adhercd closely to that agreed with the Bank, the Goverainent did not consult with the
Bank on the 1992/93 PSIP. Nonetheless, having since reviewed the progamn, the Bank has agreed that the program was
reasonable.



- 11 -
45.   In the ongoing process of compiling PSIPs, it is apparent that there are several areas in which
the process of developing the PSIP could be considerably enhanced:
i. The process of project selection and prioritization could be strengthened. Institutional
weaknesses are an important constraint to the compilation of an appropriate PSIP, both
on account of the weakness of sectoral knowledge and the capacity to undertake the
necessary supporting analysis;
ii. The donor community could be more actively encouraged to promote projects that have a
greater consistency with the strategies of the overall FER and with those of specific
sectors;
ii. The planning horizon for the PSIP is also based primarily on the forthcoming year. It
would be clearly preferable to adopt a longer horizon with, for example, a rolling
three year program;
iii. Little ex post analysis to assess the actual effectiveness and value for money of projects
appears to be conducted. This would be invaluable for informing the issues raised in (i)
above;
iv. In view of these continuing weaknesses, a more comprehensive and systematic analysis of
expenditure programming and of expenditure priorities would be valuable: specifically,
within the context of a Public Expenditure Review.
46.    These issues are of particular importance since the PSIP has a major role to play in overall
development. It is central to the consolidation of the reform program through its role in eliciting a
substantial supply response. Not only does the public sector investment program contribute to the
overall business environment for the private sector and thereby encourage overseas investors, but
economic infrastructure is critical to the development of the small-scale formal and informal sectors
from which much of the employment growth will need to come. Second, the PSIP has a major role
to play in the reduction of poverty over the medium term through the provision of economic
infrastructure and public services.
47.    External Trade Policy. The fundamental objective of the Government's external trade
strategy is to implement a phased program of trade liberalization in order to establish a unified
market-based foreign exchange system, with modest tariff-based import protection, by 1995. A
phased approach was adopted in order to help maintain macroeconomic stability and to provide local
firms with the opportunity to improve their international competitiveness. The initial emphasis was
placed on the establishment and progressive expansion of the Open General Import License (OGIL)
system and the Export Retention Scheme (ERS). In this first phase of trade reform, the OGIL system
was initially introduced in a restricted6/ form in October 1990, before being expanded and made
unrestricted in July 1991 (see Appendix D.7). Subsequently, it was further expanded to cover
20 percent of aggregate imports by value by December 1992. In parallel, the ERS was expanded
from between 5 percent and 7'h percent of export earnings in October 1990 progressively to reach
30 percent of export earnings by September 1992. At that time, ERS entitlements were also made
6/ The importation of eligible products continued to require an import license and was targeted to specific end-users.



- 12 -
tradeable. This progress in the expansion of both the OGIL and ERS schemes was in accord with the
initial SAP program, allowing the second tranche condition to be satisfied.
48.   While the OGIL Scheme had been the dominant element in trade reform in 1990 and 1991,
the emphasis was changed in 1992 and 1993 with the rapid expansion of the ERS system being given
priority. The rationale for this adjustment to the ESAP was primarily that this phased approach
would concurrently provide an additional market-based incentive to export and, with the ERS being
self-financing, would avoid the risk of an unsustainable balance of payments. Moreover, as a result
of the tradeability of the ERS entitlements, the Scheme provided a valuable indicator of the market
rate of exchange. In January 1994, the OGIL was abolished and the ERS replaced with Foreign
Currency Account whereby actual foreign exchange is retained by exporters. This, combined with
the free tradeability of this exchange in the domestic market through the commercial banks and
authorized dealers has established a more effective market-based rate. Moreover, with the ERS
retention rate being increased to 60 percent for all sectors, the total exchange being managed in this
market-determined system continued to increase.
49.   This phased widening of the market system was accompanied by the real depreciation of the
official rate by 35 percent in the third quarter of 1991. Thereafter, with a stable nominal rate, the
real effective rate appreciated by around a third in the year to September 1992. Despite a substantial
further real depreciation of the official rate in the first quarter of 1993, ERS entitlements were still
trading in December 1993 at premiums of around 20 percent over the official rate. In January 1994,
however, in conjunction with the other major reforms noted above, the official rate was depreciated
by 17 percent, thereby reducing the spread between the official rate and new FCA market rate to only
5 percent. Moreover, by April 1994, this differential had further declined to a little over one percent.
50.   This program of trade reform has, therefore, adhered closely to its target of achieving a
unified market-based rate by the end of 1994. Moreover, the momentum of this phased approach to
reform has been consistently maintained and, with the second stage of reform in 1993/94, with its
emphasis on the ERS rather than OGIL, the program was successfully adjusted to facilitate a more
rapid attainment of its objective. With its initial establishment, the OGIL played a useful role in
progressively releasing the pent-up demand pressures of the past and removing some of the
administrative controls over importation. However, the tradeability of, firstly, the ERS entitlements
and, later, the foreign currency itself provided a more appropriate means of moving to a fully market-
based system.
51.   Domestic Regulatory Policy. Domestic deregulation has been focussed on three aspects
and, in each respect, substantive progress was attained:
(a) Price decontrol. In December 1991, around 60 percent of domestic production was
subject to price controls (excluding those prices administered by the state enterprises): by
August 1993, this proportion had fallen to only 11 percent, with only maize and
fertilizers prices remaining controlled. Moreover, the fixed margin-based price controls
are no longer enforced. Consumer price subsidies have also been eliminated; notably,
those for maize, which were reduced over the course of 1992 and eliminated in June
1993, despite the severity of the drought on domestic production. With respect to the
second tranche condition under SAP, requiring the Government to facilitate price
increases for PTC and ZESA, the condition was fulfilled. Moreover, the two enterprises



- 13 -
have been accorded increased autonomy in price setting, with Cabinet approval no longer
required to effect price changes attributable to exchange rate changes;
(b) Marketing reform. Major marketing deregulation has also been effected, with no
controls remaining on domestic trade. Controls over external trade remain for some
products (including maize, cotton, soya and beef), for which an export license is
required;
(c) Investment deregulation. In order to provide a positive incentive to both local and
overseas investors, several steps have been initiated including, from May 1993, allowing
all post-tax dividends paid by new companies to be remitted in full (providing these
dividends are paid in foreign exchange through the ERS market); permitting overseas
enterpri: -s that made investments after September 1979 to undertake the unrestricted
repatriation of the foreign exchange deployed in the initial capital injection in the project
(provided the ERS market is used to acquire the foreign exchange); permitting foreign
investors to buy shares on the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange (provided the purchase is
financed with foreign exchange acquired through the normal banking channels), and the
proceeds from the sale of shares to be remitted in full, after the deduction of withholding
tax; and, following the Zimbabwe Investment Centre Act of September 1992, reorienting
the role of the ZIC awav from investment sanctioning towards investment facilitation and
promotion, with Government approval only being required for very large projects.
52.   Deregulation is, however, a continuing concern at the more micro level, particularly with
respect to the extent and nature of local authority regulation. These constraints are significant in view
of the importance of not deterring the establishment and growth of small-scale enterprises in both the
formal and informal sectors. Specifically, the zoning regulations, the controls regulating the quality
of building structures erected for enterprise purposes, the prohibition on the acquisition of title deeds
in growth points, and the remaining trading licenses constitute a continuing disincentive. However,
the establishment of the inter-ministerial Deregulation Unit, to assess the appropriate manner to
respond to these concerns, is an encouraging step.
53.    The Social Dimensions or the Adjustment. In three primary respects, the adjustment
program has had transitional costs that have not been uniformly distributed throughout the economy.
First, employment opportunities in the formal sector have declined on account of both the economic
recession and the civil service reforms. It is now estimated that only 12 percent of the workforce is
employed in the formal sector compared to 15 percent in 1980. Moreover, with the supply response
being more protracted than desirable, significant improvements in this respect are not anticipated to be
rapid. Second, while inflation reached 46 percent in 1992 and exceeded 20 percent in 1993, nominal
wage growth has been considerably less, implying a major cumulative decline in real incomes for
most of the population. Third, real expenditures on the social sectors have declined significantly in
response to the imperative to attain a major fiscal adjustment - albeit increasing as a share of total
Government expenditure. Thus, the standard of social service provision has fallen.
54.   The policy measures established to mitigate the most serious transitional costs have neither
been implemented in a timely manner nor designed appropriately to manage the emerging need.
Several concerns can be identified:



- 14 -
(i) It is apparent that the initial planning and preparation were not undertaken early enough.
During the 1987-91 period, when the design of the economic adjustment program was the
subject of detailed and intense analysis, little analytical study of the social impact was
considered. Moreover, when an assessment was undertaken, it underestimated the scale
and nature of the adjustment costs.
(ii) Despite receiving appropriate recognition in the FER, the necessary policies were not put
in place. The Social Development Fund (SDF), with a focus on the payment of health
and education fees to designated target groups and the provision of food money for those
identified with incomes below Z$ 200 per household, was very delayed in its
establishment. Moreover, research has shown the SDF to have had major design
shortcomings, and, despite improvements over the last year, its success has remained
limited: no support has been provided in the health sector; in the education sector, while
many students have been assisted with school and examination fees, only about
20 percent of eligible students have been covered; even when educational fees have been
covered, the administrative costs have been extremely high, with payment delays of 6-
8 months on average; in the case of the urban food money programs, only about
three percent of the expected eligible households have been assisted; and it is estimated
that only about 15 percent of eligible retrenchees from the private and public sectors have
been assisted with training.
(iii) While fiscal adjustment was essential, the scale of the real social expenditure reductions
is questionable. Certainly, there were important weaknesses in the expenditure
monitoring process that did not facilitate an informed prioritization of expenditures to be
effected. There is an obvious need to undertake further analysis in this respect in the
context of a comprehensive and detailed Public Expenditure Review.
55.   This experience to date has, therefore, raised many issues that require further consideration in
the redirection of the SDF initiative: namely, the definition of the eligibility criteria, together with the
feasibility of identifying the target group and the cost of so doing; the appropriateness of charging
fees in geographical areas where the anticipated eligibility for exemptions will be high; the means of
greatly simplifying and unifying both the application procedures and the eligibility criteria to enhance
take-up rates and reduce costs to both Government and recipients; the possibilities of self-targeting
systems when these are compatible with social and political expectations; and the possible mechanisms
for enhancing employment creation.
C.    The Sustainability of the Program Achievements.
56.   The Risks to SAP Implementation. At appraisal, several risks to SAP were identified:
(a) at that time, the adjustment program was considered to be gradualist in its approach and,
therefore, inherently risky in view of the importance of sustaining the momentum of
adjustment over many years;
(b) the prospect of opposition to the program was a concern; specifically, from economic
groups that would experience the loss of their previously privileged position (for



- 15 -
example, due to the establishment of an open economy) or would be disadvantaged as a
result of the transitional costs of the adjustment process;
(c) the possibility of exogenous factors, including adverse climatic conditions or regional
political insecurity;
(d) the limited implementation and monitoring capacity of the Government.
In retrospect, it is apparent that the most substantive exogenous factor was undoubtedly the severe
drought of 1991/92. However, while this necessitated a major redirection of Government resources
to the drought-related, emergency programs and, therefore, disrupted the adjustment of the fiscal
accounts, it is, nonetheless, clear that the Government did not effect major revisions to the objectives,
strategy or, indeed, policies of the FER and pressed ahead with major reforms despite this shock.
Thus, the potential impact of the drought was significantly reduced. Moreover, the possible risks
from implementing the program over a five year period have not, so far, materialized: the momentum
and commitment to reform have not been threatened or diminished. The transitional costs of the
adjustment and the institutional aspects of SAP are considered in sections B and E, respectively:
neither has so far proved a major constraint to the implementation of the policy program.
57.   The Risks to Program Sustainability. The Government has shown itself to be committed to
the implementation of the reform program, and has withstood the extreme pressures imposed by the
drought without major amendment to its basic strategy. In many respects, the adjustment may be seen
as almost irreversible: it would appear highly improbable that the comprehensive range of centralized
controls that existed prior to the FER would be reinstated in the medium term. However,
considerable risks remain. While a strong supply response, yielding rising real incomes and
increasing employment opportunities, would have provided the momentum for self-sustaining growth
and would have enhanced the credibility and acceptability of the adjustment, such a response has not
yet been established. Indeed, even with a stronger supply response, it would be essential to manage
effectively the social dimensions of the adjustment in view of the likelihood that the benefits from
adjustment would be unevenly distributed.
58.   More specifically, the attainment of a more vigorous and sustained supply response will
remain dependent on a marked enhancement of policy in several key elements:
(a) The management of public sector expenditures. The impact of continuing high levels
of public expenditure on the macroeconomy remains the primary risk to the adjustment
program. While the redirection of resources to counter the drought was undoubtedly
appropriate, the pace of fiscal adjustment - and, particularly, the reduction of
Government expenditure - has, nonetheless, been too slow. Private sector development
will be put at serious risk without the curtailment of public expenditures: notably, with
respect to the level of parastatal expenditures and the level of defense-related
expenditures.
Most importantly, progress has been protracted in assessing the problems of the
parastatal enterprises. While preparatory study was, indeed, necessary, a more
vigorous implementation of measures to raise efficiency and reduce the burden on the
fiscal accounts is necessary. Moreover, a greater involvement of the private sector must
be encouraged in this process;



- 16 -
(b) The management of the social costs of adjustment. The benefits and costs of reform
are unevenly distributed, and the measures to address the transitional costs have clearly
been inadequate. Most importantly, the target groups in society have not been
successfully incorporated into the SDF programs. Immediate measures both to mitigate
the most serious impacts and to promote the creation of employment opportunities at the
micro level are, therefore, critical to maintain support for the process of reform.
Improved access to productive assets will be required. Moreover, the efficiency with
which social sector expenditures are deployed, together with maintaining the fundamental
level of real expenditures, will remain a priority concern;
(c) The rate of private investment and the efriciency of capital utilization. Sustaining a
high level of private investment together with a significant enhancement in the efficiency
with which capital is utilized, are crucial if the competitiveness of industry is to be
improved. Moreover, investment is important in both the largest enterprises and at the
micro scale;
(d) Deregulation. With unemployment becoming an increasingly central issue, the role of
the small-scale formal and informal sectors in creating employment opportunities has
become more crucial. The development of these sectors - and, hence, the social stability
of the program - will be put at risk without more decisive moves to deregulate further at
the micro level: notably, in the areas of local authority regulations, such as zoning, the
quality of construction and local trade licensing;
(e) The development of export markets. Having now moved rapidly to establish an
economy that is subject to international competition, sustained growth will depend on
promoting exports to maintain an external equilibrium and generate growth. At present,
the underlying capacity to export is weak and should receive considerable support to
alleviate potential external constraints to growth. Such support might include the
provision of financial export incentives, of market development assistance, and of
effective relief from import taxation. It is apparent that the success and adequacy of
support should also be seen in the context of international and, specifically, regional,
competitiveness.
59.    An additional risk to the supply response is undoubtedly the prospect of continuing regional
instability. With the signing of the peace accord in Mozambique in October 1992, one important
regional uncertainty has been considerably diminished. Nonetheless, with political uncertainties
persisting in the region, there is a continuing risk to regional economic development.
60.   In view of this weaker than anticipated supply response, the issues surrounding the social
costs of the adjustment have become all the more pressing, in order both to meet the needs of the
most vulnerable groups and, equally, to ensure the continuing acceptability and sustainability of the
economic reform process itself. Without decisive and well directed policy initiatives to generate
stronger supply responses and shield poor and vulnerable groups, the sustainability of the program
would, indeed, be problematic. Without these actions, economic, social and political tensions could
stimulate pressures to adopt ad hoc measures to alleviate short term problems in a manner that might
well be incompatible with the long term objectives of the FER.



- 17 -
D.    The Bank Performance.
The Role in Policy Formulation in the 1980s.
61.   During the 1980s, the policy dialogue between the Bank and the Government was, at times,
strained due to differences of view regarding the appropriate timing, sequencing and pace of
macroeconomic and structural reform. The Bank, therefore, focussed on pursuing a program of
Economic and Sector Work (ESW), aimed at fostering an awareness of the need for a broad-based
economic policy reform. Indeed, this work, in conjunction with the informal work and advice
provided by the Resident Mission, was instrumental in assisting the Government in defining its
macroeconomic and sectoral policy. In particular, the Country Economic Memorandum of 1987 and
the Trade Liberalization Study in 1988 played an important role in the development of policy. The
ESW was accompanied by a modest, but increasingly important, lending program that was directed at
supporting infrastructure, family planning and health care and poverty alleviation. Over the period
1981/91, twenty projects were initiated and, in addition to their direct contribution, the projects
facilitated progress to be made in some important policy issues.
62.   Subsequent to the budget in July 1990, the Government made a formal request to the Bank to
assist in the preparation of the FER and, following its publication in January 1991, the Bank played a
key role in the dissemination of the program and in building support amongst the wider donor
community. Consequently, a Donor Coordination Meeting was held in March 1991, followed by a
series of Consultative Group Meetings. In parallel with the ongoing assistance that the Bank provided
to the Government, formal preparation and appraisal missions were held for the first SAP in May and
September 1991, respectively.
Effectiveness in the Supervision, Monitoring and Implementation of SAP.
63.   Supervision and monitoring of SAP was conducted through three channels: firstly, through the
formal review mission for the consideration of second tranche release; secondly, through the Resident
Mission, which maintained an on-going dialogue with the Government and implementing agency; and,
thirdly, in the course of other related work, including work for the Consultative Group meetings and
other Donor Coordination Meetings, the Policy Framework Papers, and through the participation on
IMF missions.
64.   Specifically, the second tranche review mission (September 1992) concluded that the
implementation of the reform program had progressed well in most areas, despite the intervention of
the drought. Two waivers to the Loan Agreement were sought and granted. These were with respect
to the progress in the reduction of the overall fiscal deficit, and in the reduction of the parastatal
deficits: in both cases, the financial overruns were directly attributable to the impact of the drought
and the legitimate response that the Government pursued. The tranche was, consequently, released in
October 1992, a little later than the originally envisaged target of July 1992.
Cofinancing of SAP.
65.    The program was cofinanced with the Government of Denmark, under the Agreement of 29
December 1992, which established a Trust Account for DKr.75 million to be administered by the



- 18 -
Bank.7/ DANIDA has indicated its appreciation for the progress that the Government has made
since the initiation of the FER and for the commitment that has been shown, despite the external
shocks and transitional costs of the program. The DANIDA Resident Mission identified several
policy areas in which further consideration was thought to be necessary, including parastatal reform,
Civil Service retrenchment, the management of the SDF and domestic deregulation. Nonetheless, the
overall achievements were considered to had been very positive and to have laid the foundation for
sustained growth.
66.   With regard to the implementation of the co-financing, DANIDA was content with its
operation, although it expressed some reservations about the initial progress of establishing the Grant
Agreement. These concerns related primarily to the protracted nature of the process. Finally,
DANIDA expressed some concerns regarding the effectiveness of donor coordination in assuring the
consistency of approach amongst donors to major areas of economic policy.
E.    The Borrower Performance.
Effectiveness in Preparation and Appraisal of SAP.
67.   The process by which the FER and SAP were initiated was markedly different in Zimbabwe
compared to the manner in which adjustment programs have been implemented in many other
countries. In the late 1980s, Zimbabwe was not in a state of crisis and was, indeed, deemed
creditworthy by the external community. Thus, while the Government acknowledged that major
economic reforms were necessary in order to accelerate growth and raise living standards, it did,
nonetheless, consider it both necessary and possible to spend some time undertaking the necessary
preparatory work. Consequently, significant analysis and debate took place in the late 1980s - partly
in conjunction with the Bank - prior to the design of the FER and SAP. While it could be argued that
this process delayed the implementation of urgently required reforms and that such preparatory work
might have been undertaken at a much earlier time, the fundamental approach adopted by the
Zimbabwean Government of initial preparation and study can not be faulted except in the inadequacy
of early analysis of social effects and how to effectively shield poor and vulnerable groups from
transitional difficulties. Indeed, this process played a most important role in the development of the
internal political consensus and, most importantly, assisted the Government in taking full ownership
of the program. This ownership has been reflected in the commitment displayed by the Government
in its implementation of the reforms since 1991. As an integral element of the FER, SAP, therefore,
reflected this same process of preparation.
Commitment to the Adjustment Process.
68.   The Government has displayed considerable commitment to the implementation of the reform
program, as evidenced by the rapid pace of adjustment, particularly in the fields of external trade
liberalization and domestic deregulation. Indeed, reforms in several of these areas were accelerated
over the period compared with the originally envisaged program. Certainly, as noted in sections B
and C, some elements of the adjustment have been less effectively implemented and remain a high
7/ During the course of the final ICR mission, discussions were held with DANIDA in Harare.



- 19 -
priority for the coming year: notably, in the adjustment of the public sector finances, in general, and
of the parastatals, in particular, and in the commitment to addressing the social dimensions of
adjustment. The overall conclusion is, nonetheless, one of the Government displaying a serious
commitment to reform, both in the first phase in undertaking the appropriate preparation and
analytical study in the design of the program and, in the subsequent phase, in the consistent adherence
to its implementation.
Effectiveness in Monitoring and Implementation of SAP.
69.   The monitoring and implementation of SAP has been conducted through the Monitoring and
Implementation Unit (MIU) of the Ministry of Finance. In two areas further development could be
considered. First, a more systematic and regular reporting system could be devised for informing the
participating donor community of progress in the implementation process, perhaps on a quarterly
basis. Such reporting should embrace both the accounting detail of disbursements and also the
progress in program implementation itself. Second, the degree of interaction with the recipients of
external financial support might be enhanced through a greater degree of feedback from the end-users
to the MIU and, thereby, to the donor community.
Effectiveness in Procurement and Disbursement for SAP.
70.   The procurement procedures for SAP were explicitly designed to be transparent and easily
administered, requiring only normal commercial practices and pre-shipment inspection. It is
considered that the procurement aspects of the project were satisfactorily undertaken. Equally, the
disbursement aspects were appropriately managed by both the Reserve Bank and by the Resident
Mission. The Statement of Expenditures procedures worked efficiently and effectively and the
Reserve Bank was successful in establishing the necessary systems to facilitate the process.
71.   In addition to the role of SAP in providing necessary foreign exchange and in supporting the
policy reform process, the financial aspects of the disbursement process played an important and more
direct role in support of the foreign exchange management reforms. Specifically, the provision of
Bank finance through both the OGIL and the ERS lent immediate support to the policy objectives, as
discussed in section B above.
F.    Key Lessons for Subsequent Adjustment Programs.
72.   The primary lessons from the Zimbabwe experience may be summarized as follows:
73.   Preparation and Ownership are Important. One of the strengths of the approach to reform
has been the analysis and policy design that has been initiated prior to the implementation of reform.
Moreover, in building an internal consensus and in establishing a clear ownership of the program, the
Government has been able to maintain a high level of commitment as the phased reforms have been
put in place. While this fundamental approach has been successful, a more rapid move to initiate the
preparatory work in the priority areas of the program would have been beneficial and would have
facilitated faster introduction of the reform measures. This is especially apparent with respect to
parastatal reform and the initiatives to shield the poor.



- 20 -
74.   It is also apparent that, despite the early difficulties in the policy dialogue with the
Government, the Bank was instrumental and effective through the Resident Mission and through its
well-directed ESW - notably, in the trade liberalization field - in influencing the design of the policy
program.
75.   Fiscal, Monetary and Exchange Rate Policy must be Coordinated and Share the Task of
Macro Management. The importance of a coherent and comprehensive program of macroeconomic
reform is clearly demonstrated by the Zimbabwe experience. With less fiscal deficit reduction than
was expected, a more substantial monetary adjustment was imperative in order to retain
macroeconomic equilibrium, and this dampered privated sector investment and the supply response.
76.    Control of Government Expenditure is Central. There has been an imbalance between the
relative laxity of Government expenditures and the need, therefore, to maintain tight monetary
policies and high real interest rates. A significant acceleration in the rate of adjustment of
expenditure would have facilitated a loosening of monetary policy and, thereby, a more rapid and
more marked supply response in the private sector to the macroeconomic and structural adjustments.
In the absence of such an adjustment path, the combination of high Govermnent expenditure, and
associated high inflation and high interest rates, were constraining through the reduction of domestic
demand, the establishment of a high cost of capital, the crowding out of private sector credit, and the
necessity of retaining a heavy domestic tax burden.
77.   Structural Reform of Parastatals is often Difficult but Requires Priority Attention. In
view of its substantial impact on both fiscal and monetary policy, and on the competitiveness of other
enterprises, the implementation of parastatal reform should have been one of the top priorities.
However, while the price deregulation and adjustment were rapidly and appropriately undertaken, the
programs to enhance enterprise efficiency and competitiveness through more fundamental structural
adjustment of the enterprises were very slow to be implemented. In view of the long lags entailed in
the structural reform process, it would have been advisable to have accorded the structural program
an equal importance in implementation to the macroeconomic adjustments, with both elements being
pursued on a parallel track. Indeed, the delays have arguably made structural reform and private
sector participation more difficult. In addition, in pursuing a more vigorous approach to the
structural and ownership issues, the full range of alternatives should have received attention, including
timely rationalization and the privatization of entire enterprises or selected components.
78.   It is also apparent that greater clarity is required in defining the role of the parastatals;
notably, with respect to the social functions (such as fulfilling the Government's strategic grain
strategy or its employment policy) that they are expected to perform and the transparency with which
these functions are financed. Moreover, this process would have been significantly enhanced through
policies to increase managerial capacity, such as a more appropriate salary structure and through the
attracting of established proven managers from the private sector.
79.   Deregulation is Important to Achieving a Supply Response. While impressive progress has
been achieved in deregulation and in establishing market mechanisms in the determination of prices,
labor demand, and foreign exchange allocation, and in the delicensing of imports and investment,
major inhibitions to the establishment and trading of enterprises prevail at the micro level. Only with
the rapid elimination of such constraints - especially, those under local authority control - will the
small-scale and informal sectors be empowered to respond to the macroeconomic measures that have
been taken to establish an appropriate business environment. In view of the employment-generating



- 21 -
strengths of these sectors, such steps are especially important. In general, the reform program has
had a Central Government focus and would have benefitted from a parallel concern for local
Government constraints over economic activity.
80.   Market-Based ERS is Better than OGIL. External trade reform suggests that the
establishment of a market-determined exchange rate should take precedence in the reform process.
Thus, while the OGIL successfully introduced automatic eligibility criteria for the selected purchase of
foreign exchange, it did not directly provide an on-going indicator of the appropriate market rate.
The experience of the OGIL in September 1991 clearly demonstrated the necessity of depreciation,
but not the extent or the on-going adjustment path that was required. In contrast, the tradeable ERS
retentions provide a freely operating market, with a market-determined rate that has progressively
become more representative of the whole economy as the scheme has expanded. It provides a self-
financing market mechanism, together with an in-built incentive to exporters.
81.   Protecting Social Services and Ensuring Access by the Poor is Important for Maintaining
Social Achievement and Sustaining Support for Reform. It is apparent that a more integrated
approach to the design and implementation of the economic reform program and of social policy
would have facilitated a more rapid and effective response to ameliorating the social impact of the
adjustment program. The poor initial anticipation of the impact of economic reform, together with
the inadequacy of the analysis of the most appropriate and feasible response, was a major
shortcoming. Real social expenditures were not effectively maintained as they should have been.
Since resources are necessarily constrained, the direction and detail of social policy would have been
immensely enhanced through informed and more systematic analysis of the priorities and effectiveness
of social expenditure within the context of a comprehensive Public Expenditure Review. Furthermore,
it is arguable that the establishment of stricter conditionality for second tranche release - or, indeed,
credit effectiveness - would have been appropriate with respect to the required social measures.
82.   Adjustment can be Maintained in spite of External Shocks. While there may often be a
prima facie case for deferring reform in the presence of external shocks, the Zimbabwe experience
suggests that such revisions to planned reform programs may not be necessary. This conclusion is,
however, contingent on the appropriate additional external financing being made available rapidly, in
order to protect the trade and exchange rate reforms. In Zimbabwe, reform was not interrupted by
the severe drought except for the delay in reducing the fiscal deficit. Indeed, it may be argued that
the political costs of implementing difficult reforms at a time of exogenous shock were substantially
lower than would otherwise have been the case.



- 22 -
Part II. Statistical Annexes
11.1   Summary of Assessments
11.2   Project Timetable
11.3   Loan and Credit Disbursements
II.4   Project Financing
11.5   Status of Compliance with Legal Covenants for Release of Second Tranche
11.6   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
11.7   Bank Resources: Missions



- 23 -
Part 11.1 (a) Summary of Assessments
A. AchieveMent of Obiectives        Substantial                      Neslifible      Not Anolicable
Macro policies                      W                                W                 D
Sector policies                     @               22                     
Fituncial objeaives                [i               E               7 
Institutional developmet           7                1                0                 0
Physical objectives                n               o                                  In
Poverty reduction md a n d
other social objectives
Environm=tal objective             7               7                 a                [i
Public sector ma=ageat                                                                 E b
Private sector developmt t
B. Proiec  SustainabilityUlieyUnvi
(V)                      V4()
C. Assessment of Overall             Hijhgy                                              Hiv
Outcome             satisfactorv   ~~~Satisfactory  Unsatisfmacory   Unsatisfactory
Out-ome                         aljfl2       ~31Ir&2D (OL ()                      (A
71   0    0                                       0



- 24 -
Part 11.1 (b) Summary of Assessments
D. Maior Factors Affectinr the      Substantial                  Partial                  Nezliribie
Proiect                           (+ or-)                   (+or                       (4.or-)
Factors not generally subject
to government contml
Factors generally subjea to         m                         r0
governsent cont,l
Factors generally subject to                                                              0
implementing agency control
Hizbi
E. Bank Perfornance                  satisfactoy              Satisfacnor                 Deficient
(/)(                                                (c'
Identification                                                E o
Preparation assistance              7                         FL                         7
Appraisal                           ba 
Supervision                          E                        73                          0
Hi~W
F. Borrower Perfonnance             satisfactory              Saisfactory                 Deficient
Preparation                                                    o
Implementation and operation         E                                                    0



- 25 -
Part 11.2: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle           Date planned              Actual date
Initiating Memorandum                                           March 20, 1991
Preparation                            October 15, 1990         October 15, 1990
Appraisal                               July 15, 1991           May 14 1991 and
September 25, 1991
Negotiations                           January 15, 1992        December 9, 1991
Letter of development                         -                December 21, 1991
policy (if applicable)                                                             l
Board presentation                     March 17, 1992           January 21, 1992
Signing                                                         February 4, 1992
Effectiveness                                                    April 10, 1992
Second Tranche Review                                           October 30, 1992
Completion (last disbursement)    __February 1994
Closing                                       -                December 31, 1993
Part 11.3: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Disbursements (US$ millions).
FY 92         FY 93          FY 94
Appraisal estimate                         85.00          90.00          n.a.
Actual                                     44.87          106.96        68.85
Actual as % of estimate                    53%            119%           n.a.
Date of final disbursement                  n.a.           n.a.       Feb. 1994
Part II.4: Project Financing
US $ millions
Source                       Planned             Actual/latest estimate
IBRD/IDA                                  175.0                     175.81
Cofinancing institutions                                             5.80
Other external sources                    215.5                     272.60
Domestic contribution
TOTAL                                     390.5                     454.21



- 26 -
Part 11.5
STATUS OF
COMPLIANCE WITH LEGAL COVENANTS
(For Release of Second Tranche)
ZIMBABWE
3434-ZIM (IBRD)
2331-ZIM (IDA)
Schedule 1, Paragraph 4(b)
Fulrillment Date: October 30, 1992
COVENANTS                                   ACTION TAKEN
A. FISCAL POLICY
The FY 1991/92 budget has been implemented         Achieved: except for essential drought-related
with a deficit (excluding grants) not exceeding   recovery and relief expenditure.
8.3 percent of GDP.
After allowance for all measures taken in 1991,
The deficit has been further reduced by the net    deficit target set at 7.2 percent of GDP for
revenues arising from the additional measures      1991/92.
taken since October 1991 (increase in the
.inimum tariff to 10 percent; additional 10        Outturn deficit total 7.6 percent of GDP for
percent tariff applied to imports under OGIL;      1991/92, due to impact of drought-related
and elimination of the manufacturer's rebate).     expenditures.
[At time of Review mission (October 1992),
provisional estimates indicated that the tranche
condition was exceeded by one percentage point.]
Waiver granted.
B. ENTERPRISE SECTOR
The operational deficit of the public enterprises  Achieved: except for essential drought-induced
referred to in the program has been reduced to a   food imports. Combined operating losses in
maximum of Z$370 million for FY 1991/92.           1991/92 total Z$600 million. However, of this,
about Z$300 million was attributable to drought-
induced maize imports by the Grain Marketing
Board. In the absence of these adverse effects,
the combined losses would have totalled around
Z$300 million.
Waiver granted.
C. CIVIL SERVICE
The number of authorized positions in the Civil    Achieved: 7,000 posts eliminated by target date.
Service has been reduced by 5,000 positions by
June 30, 1992.



- 27 -
Part 11.5
STATUS OF
COMPLIANCE WITH LEGAL COVENANTS
(For Release of Second Tranche)
ZIMBABWE
3434-ZIM (IBRD)
2331-ZIM (IDA)
Schedule 1, Paragraph 4(b)
Fulfillment Date: October 30, 1992
COVENANTS                               ACTION TAKEN
D. PUBLIC SECTOR INVESTMENT
PROGRAM
The Public Sector Investment Program,          Achieved: actual PSIP very close to that
agreed with the Bank, for FY 1991/92 has       agreed.
been implemented.
The Public Sector Investment Program for       Although PSIP adopted prior to consultation
FY 1992/93 has been adopted after              with Bank, program subsequently determined
consultation with the Bank.                    to be reasonable.
E. FOREIGN EXCHANGE
The unrestricted OGIL system has been          Achieved: OGIL system expanded to cover
expanded by June 30, 1992 to include goods     15 percent of aggregate value of imports at
representing at least 15 percent of the        end 1991.
aggregate value of imports in calendar year
1991.
Exporters should, by June 30 1992, have        Achieved: ERS rate raised to 30 percent in
become entitled to at least a 25 percent       September 1992.
retention of foreign exchange, named on
account of exports under the Export
Retention Scheme.
F. PRICING POLICY
The Post and Telecommunication                 Achieved: PTC and ZESA given
Commission and the Zimbabwe Electricity        permission, and large tariff increases
Supply Authority have been permitted to        effected. PTC and ZESA also given
adjust consumer tariffs to cover specific cost  increased autonomy in price setting, with
categories agreed with the Bank.               Cabinet approval no longer needed to adjust
tariffs to reflect exchange rate effects.



- 28 -
Part 11.6: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs' (weeks)
Stage of                                    Planned                                Revised                                 Actual
project cycle
Through appraisal                                             205.0                                   197.3                                  142.82
Appraisal-Board                                                13.0                                    14.3                                  14.3
Board-effectiveness                                             2.0                                   2.0                                     2.0
Supervision                                                   45.5                                   49.3                                    38.2
Completion                                                      8.0                                    8.0                                     8.0
TOTAL                                                         273.5                                   270.9                                 205.3
1. Also includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants.
2. Includes a second appraisal mission.
Part 11.7: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of project                   Month/year             Number of           Days in            Specialzed            Performance            Types
cycle                                                  persons             field               staff                mrang                 of
skifls                stahs'           problems'
represmted '
Through appraisal                          October 1990                 it                 20           Macro economist
Febriary 1991                2                 10            Trade economist
May 1991                   7                 20             Specialists in
September 1991                5                 24           public enterpris
rmsncmia sector,
deregulation,
bumran resoure
Lawyer
Appraisal through Board                         None
approval
Board approval through                          None                     -                  -
effcctvenes
Supervision'                                 Sept. 1992                  8                 12           Macro economist                2
Trade economist
Specialsts in
public enterprises
deregulation,
human resources.
public sector
management
Completion                                    May 1994                   1                 10           Macro economist
1.  Key to specinized staff sUils.
2.  Key to status as sbown in supervision form 590.
3. Key to problems as shoawn in supervision form 590.
4. Supervised by Resident Mission on a morm continuous basis.



- 29 -
Appendix A.
Aide-Memoire: April 15, 1994
During the mission, discussions were held with a broad range of bodies, including
representatives from the Ministries of Finance, Industry and Commerce, and Agriculture, the Reserve
Bank of Zimbabwe, the National Planning Commission, DANIDA, UNICEF, and from the private
sector. The mission would like to express its thanks for the considerable assistance provided by all
these representatives, and especially to Ms. Rose Mazula of the Ministry of Finance.
The mission focussed on two basic issues: firstly, the substance of the implementation and
operation of the Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) and the analysis and assessment of the
Government's reform program; and, secondly, the provision of assistance to the Government in the
preparation of its contribution to the Project Completion Report (PCR).
Program Implementation and Operation.
The overall conclusion of the mission was that the implementation of both the Structural
Adjustment Program, in particular, and of the Government economic reform program, in general, had
progressed well throughout the life of the project, 1992/94. Following a period of preparation and
economic analysis in the late 1980s, the Government had subsequently moved rapidly to implement its
program: notably, in the areas of trade reform and in the deregulation of pricing and marketing
controls. Indeed, despite the significant impact of the external shocks - notably, the drought - the
Government had displayed considerable commitment to maintaining the momentum of the reform
process.
While the fundamental conclusion should, therefore, be positive, there are several elements to
the program where progress has been more problematic. Indeed, while the reforms are firmly
established at this time, there are undoubtedly risks to the sustainability of the program which deserve
the highest attention. The primary elements in this respect may be summarized as follows and will be
elaborated upon in the PCR:
(a) The repercussions of continuing high levels of Government expenditure on the
economic recovery, through its adverse impact on the macroeconomy and, thereby, on
private sector development;
(b) The slow progress in addressing the underlying problems of the parastatal enterprises.
The assessment of the problems has been most protracted - albeit necessary - and a more
vigorous implementation of measures to raise efficiency and reduce the burden on the
fiscal accounts is necessary. Moreover, little private sector involvement has yet been
encouraged in this process;
(c) While deregulation has proceed rapidly in many areas - including prices, marketing, the
labor market, and investment - significant restrictions remain at the local government
level that impede the establishment of small-scale informal and formal sector activities;
(d) The development of export markets. Having now moved rapidly to establish an
economy that is subject to international competition, sustained growth will depend on
promoting exports to maintain an external equilibrium. At present, the underlying



- 30 -
capacity to export is weak and should receive considerable support to alleviate potential
external constraints to growth;
(e) The measures to address the social dimensions of the adjustment process have clearly
been inadequate. Most importantly, the target groups in society have not been
successfully incorporated into the SDF programs. Administration costs have been
disproportionately high, partly resulting from the over complexity in the design of the
schemes.
In aggregate, these concerns appear to contribute to the more muted supply response than would
have been desired at this time of the program's implementation. Specifically, private sector
investment does not appear to have responded rapidly, partly due to the depressed domestic demand,
but also due to the combined impact of many of the factors noted above. In view of this weaker
response, the issues surrounding the social costs of the adjustment become all the more pressing, in
order both to meet the needs of the most vulnerable groups and, equally, to ensure the continuing
acceptability and sustainability of the economic reform process, itself.
Cofinancing.
The program was also discussed with DANIDA, the cofinanciers of SAP. DANIDA were
appreciative of the progress that the Government had made, and of the commitment that had been
shown, despite the external shocks and the obvious costs that the program implied in the short term.
They identified several policy areas in which further consideration was necessary including parastatal
reform, civil service retrenchment, the management of the SDF and domestic deregulation.
Nonetheless, the overall achievements had been very positive and had laid the foundation for
sustained growth. With respect to donor coordination, DANIDA expressed some concerns regarding
its effectiveness in ensuring consistency of approach amongst donors.
With regard to the administration of SAP, itself, DANIDA were broadly content with its
operation, although they expressed some reservations about the initial process of establishing the
Grant Agreement, both with respect to the protracted nature of the process and the need to
accommodate their desire to provide grant finance.
The Government's Contribution to the PCR.
In the course of the mission, the Bank discussed in detail the Borrower's Responsibilities in
the PCR Preparation, as presented in the Bank Guidelines (see Annex 1). Specifically, the
preparation of the Government's own final evaluation report was initiated, with the mission providing
appropriate advice and support as to its basic content and format. In addition, the procedures for the
processing of the Government's contribution, together with the timescale for its preparation, were also
agreed, as noted further below.
Timetable for Processing PCR.
It is proposed that both the Bank's contribution and the Government's contribution to the PCR
should be completed in parallel according to the following timescale:
(i) By end April:   completion of first drafts;



- 31 -
(ii) Mid-May:       feedback from Government on Bank draft, and feedback from Bank on
Government draft;
(iii) End May:      completion of final drafts;
(iv) Early June:    PCR transmitted to Government and Cofinancier for comments.
Follow-up.
It was agreed that, should the Government require clarification or further guidance in the
completion of the first draft of its own contribution to the PCR, Mr Fred King would be available in
Harare from Tuesday April 19th to assist and could be contacted through the Resident Mission.
A.W.Goudie
April 15, 1994



- 32 -
Appendix B.
WORLD BANK LOAN/CREDIT
COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
PROJECT TITLE: IDA CREDIT NO. 23331
IBRD LOAN NO. 3434
Prepared by the Government of Zimbabwe
June 1994



- 33 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT:
I.    INTRODUCTION:
1.    Since 1991, the Government of Zimbabwe has been implementing its Economic Structural
Adjustment Programme (ESAP), designed to re-orient economic management away from the
administrative controls that hampered economic development in the 1980s, and to promote
economic growth in a climate of macroeconomic stability. These efforts are being supported
by the World Bank, initially through parallel arrangements with the International Development
Association (IDA) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), in
the form a Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I) and a Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I).
SAL I and SAC I were appraised and negotiated during 1991, and became effective on 10
April, 1992. Successful implementation of the reform programme supported by these
facilities, in the face of the worst drought in living memory, paved the way for agreement on
a second adjustment credit (SAC II).
2.    This completion report presents information on disbursement and utilisation of SAL I and
SAC I, and reviews economic and policy developments in the period in which ESAP was
supported by SAL I and SAC I, and discusses factors affecting implementation of the
programme.
II.  DISBURSEMENT AND UTILISATION OF SAL I AND SAC I
3.    The loan and credit agreements between the World Bank and the Government of Zimbabwe
for SAL I and SAC I were signed on 4 February, 1992, and became effective on April 10
1992. The loan was for an amount equivalent to US$125 million, and the credit was for an
amount equivalent to $50 million. The purpose of these two facilities was to help finance the
Import Support Programme (ISP) which basically meant expenditures made in respect of
imports of goods on Open General License (OGIL) and eligible for importation under the
Export Retention Scheme (ERS). Up to 25 per cent of the amount provided under SAC I
could be used to retroactively finance imports effected up to four months before the data of
signature of the agreements. Up to 25 per cent of both facilities could be used to finance
imports of petroleum and foodstuffs. Expenditures for goods in the following groups were not
eligible for financing:
- Alcoholic beverages
- Tobacco
- Radioactive materials
- Pearls, precious and semi-precious stones
- Nuclear reactors
- Tobacco processing machinery
- Jewellery of gold, silver or platinum
- Gold.
4.    The financing provided by the two facilities came at a most appropriate time, following the
introduction of ESAP in the previous year. The ISP, an important part of ESAP required a
significant quantity of foreign exchange, and the World Bank was one of the first multilateral
institutions to release funds for the programme.



- 34 -
5.    In line with the agreements, the resource made available under the credit were utilised before
the proceeds of the loan. As indicated in the attached disbursement tables, the first
disbursement from the credit, US$20 million, was released into the Special Account on 14
May 1992. The credit was fully disbursed in 1992, and disbursement of the loan was
completed in December 1993. The tables indicate the type of claims used to justify the
withdrawals from the special account.
6.    Reflecting a problem of obtaining import documents, especially for retroactive imports, the
volume of claims started at a relatively low level. The need for the Reserve Bank of
Zimbabwe to put in place a computer system to process the Statements of Expenditures, and
lack of follow up also contributed to the slow start. These problems were, however, resolved
during the course of project implementation.
7.    The establishment of a Disbursement Committee and a Disbursement Unit, brought about a
speedier flow of documentation and simplification of procedures. The Disbursement Unit is
the technical team of the Disbursement Committee, and is comprised of staff from the
relevant departments in the Ministry of Finance and the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe. The
Committee oversees and directs work of the Unit, and addresses policy issues related to
disbursement problems.
8.    Other factors affecting disbursement of funds financing the ISP, such as donor disbursement
and procurement procedures, and the pre-shipment inspection scheme, were outside
Government control.
9.    Despite efforts by the Government to achieve harmonisation of donor procedures, significant
differences persisted and continued to restrict the eligibility of some imports for financing.
For example, while the World Bank and some other donors allowed disbursement from
Special Accounts on a replenishment basis, others only allowed financing on a reimbursement
basis. Not only that, even the interpretation of replenishment varies among donors. Another
area of consistency was in the area of minimum eligible import transactions. Some donors
would only finance import transactions of US$10 000 and above, compared to US$2 000 for
the World Bank. Some donors imposed no limit.
10.   The preshipment inspection scheme (PSI), on the other hand, delayed imports. The PSI was
introduced by the Government at the beginning of 1991 for quality, price and quantity checks
on imports. The threshold on PSI was US$10 000. Due to the delays associated with PSI,
many importers tended to disaggregate their import orders in order to circumvent inspection.
Thus, very few transactions qualified for the US$10 000 import transaction limit imposed by
some donors. As a result of these problems, and given that the scheme introduced
inconsistencies with procurement practices such as International Competitive Bidding, the PSI
contract was terminated by the Government at the end of 1993. Alternative trade supervision
measures are being put in place.
III. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND PROGRAMME PERFORMANCE
11.       Important progress was made in the implementation of the Economic Structural
Adjustment Programme (ESAP) in the period during which the Structural Adjustment
operations were providing support, particularly as regards trade and investment
liberalisation. However the impact of the measures taken were to a large extent
overshadowed by the effects on the economy of the 1991/92 drought. Levels of activity
and employment continued to suffer setbacks from the drought and the effects of the



- 35 -
international and regional recessions well into 1993, compounding problems experienced
in meeting fiscal and monetary targets.
B. FISCAL POLICY
12.   The budget deficit for fiscal year 1992/93 (excluding international aid grants) amounted to $3
385 million or 10.4 per cent of Gross Domestic Product at market prices (GDPMP). This
compares with the original estimate of $2 819 million or about 8.7 per cent of GDPMP (see
Table 111.1). This slippage reflected a combination of higher than planned expenditures, and
lower than projected revenues, and followed a deficit of 8.5 per cent of GDPMP in 1991/92.
13.   Total expenditures in 1992/93 amounted to $13 408 million, some 3.4 per cent higher than
planned. This was due largely to increases in spending on drought relief activities - including
food imports, supplementary feeding, provision of subsidised agricultural inputs and capital
expenditures such as construction of dams and sinking of boreholes. In all drought relief
expenditures amounted to some 4.2 per cent of GDPMP. Foreign and domestic interest
payments, at $2 309 million, or 17.2 per cent of total expenditure, were some 15.6 per cent
higher than projected, largely as a result of interest and exchange rate movements. Wages and
salaries, which at $4 088 million accounted for around 30.4 per cent of total expenditures,
were some 8.6 per cent higher than estimated. These expenditure overruns were offset to
some degree by savings in other categories - particularly other recurrent spending brought
about by measures adopted during the fiscal year.
14.   Low levels of economic activity induced by the drought and the international recession had an
adverse impact on revenue performance during the fiscal year. Taxes on income and profits,
reflecting to some degree the lags in collecting taxes on business income, exceeded budget
estimates by some 16 per cent to reach $4 964 million. On the other hand, taxes on goods
and services, at $3 748 million fell short of estimates by some 20 per cent as production and
sales of manufactured goods fell sharply along with demand for imports.
15.    Slow disbursement of programmed external financing, caused largely by bureaucratic delays,
led to greater recourse to domestic financing than anticipated, exacerbating inflationary
pressures and increasing pressure on interest rates.
16.   The budget for fiscal year 1993/94 projected a reduction in the deficit to $2 085 million,
around 5.3 per cent of GDP. However, figures for the mid-year out-turn show that target has
already been exceeded, with the deficit excluding grants reaching $2 114 million. Problems
with disbursement of external financing have again been experienced, so that domestic
financing from the banking sector exceeded the deficit for the six months to December. The
overshooting has been caused mainly by greater than targeted lending to parastatals, subsidies
and interest payments.
17.   At this stage, it is likely that the deficit will exceed the target by a large margin, the extent of
which will depend on the eventual financial outcome in key parastatals and the Government's
success in containing expenditures in the second half of the fiscal year. Excessive borrowing
from the banking sector will fuel inflationary pressures and it is likely that the downward
trend in inflation experienced during most of 1993 will be reversed as 1994 proceeds.



- 36 -
Table 111.1 Government Revenue, Expenditure, and Financing
92/93       92/93        93/94       Dec '93
Budget      Actual       Budget       Actual
Total revenue                  10086        10023       12600         5700
Tax revenue                  9118         8851        10934         5022
Income and profits         4265         4964         6063        2782
Customs duties             2400         1827         2150        1099
Excise duties               600         450          500          239
Sales tax                  1670         1471         2035         812
Other taxes                 183          138         187           91
Non-tax revenue               968         1172         1666         679
Total expenditure              12906        13408       14685         7815
Current expenditure          10899        11364       11555         6306
Wages and salaries         3763         4088         4522        2447
Interest on debt           1997         2309         2450        1388
Foreign                   750         637          885          441
Domestic                 1247         1671         1565         947
Subsidies                   980         1113         377          132
Other recurrent            4159         3571         4156        2040
Development expenditure      1347         1423         2014         837
Net lending                   809          621         1116         671
Deficit excluding grants       -2820        -3385       -2085        -2114
Grants                          800          740         700          239
Deficit including grants       -2020        -2645       -1385        -1875
Financing                      2020         2645         1385         1875
Foreign financing            1925         1366         895         -145
Domestic financing            94          1279         490         2020
Memo: Shares of GDPMP 1/
Total revenue                               30,8%        32,1%       29,0%
Total expenditure                           41,1%        37,4%        39,8%
Deficit excluding grants                    -10,4%       -5,3%       -10,8%
Note: 1/ GDP at market prices - estimated half year used for results to Dec '93



- 37 -
C.  MONETARY POLICY AND FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM
18.   Prior to 1990 control of credit and money supply in the economy was pursued using direct
methods: interest rates were set by fiat, and banking system liquidity was controlled by bilateral
interactions between the Reserve Bank and deposit money banks. Under ESAP the objective is to
achieve a more market-oriented economic environment with the authorities resorting to indirect
methods of monetary control. To this end, the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe has increasingly relied
on market-based monetary policy instruments; including open market operations and a flexible
discount rate policy in its implementation of monetary policy. Direct controls on most interest
rates have been removed.
19.   However, during 1992 and 1993, monetary policy formulation has been heavily influenced by
developments on the budget front and the need to reduce inflation. As mentioned above, the
deficit in 1992/93 was higher than planned, and problems are being experienced in containing the
1993/94 deficit. Because of shortfalls in foreign financing inflows, recourse to domestic financing
has been much greater than expected, with consequent effects on monetary growth. As a result,
tight monetary policy has been required, with high interest rates an inevitable consequence. In
the early part of the 1993/94 fiscal year, reductions in inflation appeared to give leeway to relax
restrictive monetary policies and put interest rates on a downward trend. However, as the
continuing problems on the fiscal front became apparent, a return to tighter policies has been
effected.
20.   Work on reform of financial sector and monetary policy formulation continued in 1993. Two
major studies - "The Zimbabwean Financial Sector - Impediments to Efficiency and Opportunities
for Reform" and "Banking Sector Reform in Zimbabwe - Preparing for more Market Oriented
Policies" - were completed during the course of the year. These studies examined ways of
making the financial sector an efficient instrument of development in a market oriented economy.
They dealt with ways of strengthening and re-orienting supervision and regulation of the financial
sector - and changing the activities of the monetary authorities - as the move is made from direct
to indirect in the implementation of monetary policy. Following the recommendations of these
studies, work is underway on new banking and financial sector legislation, aimed at reducing
market segmentation and strengthening and modernising bank supervision to meet the challenges
of a more liberalised economy.
D.  PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM
21.   Progress in the implementation of the Public Enterprise Reform Programme, one of the most
critical aspects of ESAP, has become a cause for serious concern, and an issue on which
Government has been criticised by donors and the press.
22.   According to the 1991 Economic Reform blueprint the Programme aims at eliminating the large
budgetary burden caused by the PEs and making them operate efficiently. The target was that
direct subsidies and transfers to PEs should be reduced over the reform period from the fiscal
year 1990/91 level of $629 million to a maximum of $40 million by fiscal year 1994/95.
However, the unaudited figures for 1992/93 show losses of up to $650 million and indications are
that the position has not improved in 1993/94.



- 38 -
23.   A major part of the budgetary overrun is due to problems experienced by the agricultural
marketing boards in the aftermath of the drought. The financial position of the Grain Marketing
Board, in particular, was affected by the high costs of importing grain during the drought and the
need to discount excess holdings of yellow maize, the combined effects of the costs of borrowings
to finance the purchase of the 1993 crop at a high producer price and the low offtake experienced
during the year resulting from the liberalisation of maize marketing. The Cotton Marketing
Board faced problems due to the high cost of drought imports of lint, relative to the selling price,
and the Cold Storage Commission was affected by the costs of maintaining capacity during
periods of very low throughput.
24.   While the financial consequences of dealing with the drought were a major cause of the failure to
meet the budgetary targets, delays in implementing the programme have also been due to
bureaucratic procedures required in appointing consultants to carry out studies needed in the
detailed formulation of actions to be taken. However, by the beginning of 1993 Government had
managed to finalise all selection procedures and had commissioned a firm of international
consultants to carry out a comprehensive diagnostic study on 27 PEs. The study focused on a
number of issues that were considered to be central to the problems of PEs. These included the
financial relations between the state and PEs, the legal and institutional framework for the PEs,
potential for privatisation or private sector participation, design of an information system to
monitor PE performance and assistance in the preparation of comprehensive action programmes
for individual PEs.
25.   The diagnostic study was completed at the end of June 1993 and from that time, Government
started an urgent analysis of the recommendations made by the consultants with a view to coming
up with an action programme for individual PEs. In November 1993 the Senior Minister of
Finance presented a Cabinet Memorandum which clearly outlined drastic measures to reforrn the
nine major PEs which would ensure that the enterprises would prepare themselves to operate on a
sound commercial basis 8/. It is also expected that similar measures for the remaining PEs will
be worked out in the same way, taking into account recommendations made in the consultants'
report. The initial stage of this exercise has already started through a workshop and a seminar of
Ministers which were held to consider the outcome of the consultants assignment.
26.   The general principles adopted by Government for addressing problems common to all parastatals
are:
the conversion of long term loans into equity to help deal with the problems caused by
under-capitalisation and extensive debt financing;
disposal of idle assets and excess capacity to assist in the reduction of cash deficits;
submission of corporate plans to Government by all PEs in the short term to assist in the
introduction of performance contracts;
PE s to pay corporate tax with effect from the next tax year;
8/ The nine enterprises are: National Railways of Zimbabwe, the Zimbabwe Electricity Supply
Authority, the Grain Marketing Board, the Cold Storage Commission, the Dairy Marketing Board,
the Cotton Marketing Board, the National Oil Company of Zimbabwe, Air Zimbabwe Corporation
and the Agricultural Finance Corporation.



- 39 -
A dividend policy to be agreed on between Government and PEs; and
Prompt payment by Government for services rendered by PEs and vice-versa.
27.   Over and above these, recommendations for individual PEs have also been designed to achieve
efficiency and effectiveness in their operations. For some PEs it has been recommended that they
concentrate on core activities in order to minimise losses on non-economic activities. In other
cases, change of status from PE to Government owned companies registered under the Companies
Act has been recommended.
28.   To ensure that words are translated into action within the anticipated time-frame, all sector
Ministries have been made responsible for the implementation of all resolutions passed by Cabinet
on the reform of PEs in their sectors. Despite the delays, many PEs have made substantial
progress in implementing various reform measures and positive dividends are beginning to be
realised through improved operational performance. A good case in point is the DMB which is
projecting to make a profit of over $30 million during the 1994/95 fiscal year.
E.  CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
29.   One of the critical elements in reducing the budget deficit and increasing efficiency of the public
sector is the Civil Service Reform Programme. The intention is to reduce the size of the civil
service and at the same time to improve its efficiency, productivity and effectiveness. The
objective of the reduction in the size of the civil service is to decrease the civil service wage bill
from 16.5% of GDP in FY 90/91 to 12.9% of GDP in FY 94/95. Significant progress has been
made in this area. At the end of fiscal year 1992/93 a total of 10 044 civil service posts had been
abolished at an estimated saving of $12.4 million. In September 1993. guidelines on voluntary
retirement were circulated, announcing incentives for early retirement. In the 1993/94 fiscal year
it is estimated that a further 9 956 posts will be abolished.
F.  TRADE LIBERALIZATION
30.   The objective of the trade liberalisation programme as outlined in "Zimbabwe: A Framework for
Economic Reform 1991-995" is to have most imports (targeted at 85% of the value) free of
import licensing, or any other form of quantitative import restriction by the end of 1995. The
original mechanism for this liberalisation was through the progressive expansion of the list of
tariff items that were eligible for import under the Open General Import License (OGIL) scheme.
31.   This was enhanced in July 1990, when the Government introduced the Export Retention Scheme
(ERS) to ensure exporters access to foreign exchange and to provide an incentive to expand
exports. Under the ERS, exporters could earn an automatic entitlement to foreign exchange
equivalent to a specified proportion of their export earnings. Any entitlement in excess of the
requirements of the exporter could be sold to other importers and any premium retained by the
exporter. At the end of 1993, this premium was about 20%.
32.   With the introduction of the ERS, the composition of the trade liberalisation schedule was revised
such that the total of OGIL levels and ERS entitlements met the originally targeted levels of trade
liberalisation.



- 40 -
33.   At the end of 1992, the Government decided to pursue future trade liberalisation through the more
rapid expansion of the ERS rather than through the combination of ERS and OGIL. As a result,
the planned increase in un-restricted OGIL from 20% to 35% of tariff items in 1993 was replaced
by an increase in the level of ERS from 35% to 50% from 1 April 1993. The combined OGIL
and ERS level was ahead of target, which was for 70% of imports to be free of import licensing
by July 1993.
34.   In April 1993, the Government announced new rules for foreign investment in Zimbabwe. The
Government also announced its intention to introduce foreign currency denominated accounts
(FCDAs) with local banks into which part of the export proceeds would be deposited by exporters
as well as individuals with external funds. The first stage of this liberalisation commenced in
June 1993 with the introduction of foreign currency denominated accounts for individuals.
35.   The introduction of accounts for individuals created a legal parallel market in foreign exchange.
As well as being a test case for a wider relaxation, this scheme was aimed at attracting into
Zimbabwe some of the balances of foreign exchange currently being held externally. This would
serve to increase the amount of foreign exchange available to Zimbabwe and signal the
Government's intention to pursue liberalisation of the trade regime. Authorised Dealers were able
to establish a system of trading in, and managing, foreign currency, while the amount of funds
were still small and thus expertise would be developed in anticipation of its extension to export
earnings.
36.   Foreign Currency Accounts (FCAs) for exporters were introduced on 31 December 1993. Under
these arrangements, exporters are able to retain 60% of their export earnings in a foreign
currency account (FCA) for their own import use, or for sale to others who may wish to pay for
the import of goods and services. The Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe ceased to provide foreign
exchange for the private sector (other than to meet existing commitments under the Export
Retention Scheme). Private sector importers are required to source their foreign exchange needs
from the FCAs of the exporters, or from balances held by Authorised Dealers. This trade in
currency provides a parallel exchange rate determined by supply and demand, which will become
a target rate for the Reserve Bank as it moves towards the merging of the official and parallel
rates of exchange to achieve a unified market determined rate. Soon after introduction, the
premium on the parallel market stood at 5%, and by the end of February 1994 had declined to
1.5%.
37.   The foreign currency accounts for exporters operate as follows:
Exporters are able to directly deposit 60% of their foreign exchange earnings into a foreign
currency account held with a local bank. Export earnings cover the earnings from the export
of both goods and services. The remaining export earnings must be surrendered to the
Reserve Bank at the official exchange rate as before. This direct retention of foreign
exchange will replace the issuing of entitlements under the ERS.
Non-export inflows of foreign currency, such as external borrowings by companies or
authorised dealers, and capital inflows for investment purposes, will be deposited in full into
an FCA. Repayments of such debts, dividends etc., will be by the purchase of funds from
the FCA market (or from any remaining ERS entitlements).



- 41 -
Funds in corporate FCAs can be sold, at a market determined rate of exchange, to anyone
wishing to import goods, pay for services and for certain capital payments. An interbank
market will be established between Authorised Dealers (commercial and merchant banks), to
assist trade in the private market and to smoothly set the market rate of exchange.
The ERS negative list applies to importation using funds from FCAs but the list has been
significantly reduced by the removal of major items such as processed foods and household
electronic items.
These foreign currency accounts and the direct retention of export earnings replace the
granting of any new entitlements under the Export Retention Scheme. Residual balances of
ERS entitlements will continue to be honoured by the RBZ.
All private sector importation and service payments will be through the purchase of funds
from the FCA market or from remaining ERS entitlements. The Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe
will only provide official foreign exchange for central Government imports, debt repayments
and fuel imports.
Consistent with the objective of treating all import on a equal basis, OGIL importation has
been merged with the parallel market. Importers wishing to import goods on the old OGIL
list must access forex from the FCA market (or by purchase of the remaining ERS
entitlements). To compensate for the higher cost of accessing market-based funds, the 10%
temporary duty on OGIL imports has been abolished and the surtax has been reduced from
20% to 15%.
G.  INVESTMENT
38.   From 1 May 1993, significantly liberalised investment regulations become effective. The major
features of this change were that all new foreign investments from 1 May 1993 would be eligible
for full repatriation of dividends from investments in Zimbabwe. This was an important change
in increasing the level of investment which is regarded as essential for economic growth and the
provision of employment opportunities. In addition, rules on repatriation of dividends for existing
investments were relaxed, conditional on export performance and levels of new investment. As
the economic structural adjustment programme develops, the remaining restrictions on existing
investments are expected to be progressively relaxed.
39.   In addition to direct investment, the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange was opened up to foreign
investors, who could, from 1 May 1993, each purchase up to 5% of the shares in a local
company, with a total foreign investment ceiling of 25%. These levels were additional to the
levels of foreign investment in local listed companies at 1 May 1993. The relaxation of
regulations governing foreign investment on the stock exchange has contributed to a major
recovery in this market. By the end of January 1994, $183 million had been invested by foreign
investors. This is opening up new opportunities for raising equity capital for local development.
40.   To further encourage investment, and to offset the cost of importing capital goods using ERS
funds, exemptions from surtax and import tax were granted in October 1993. The exemptions
from surtax apply to 228 tariff items for which automatic exemption will be granted on



- 42 -
importation. 85% of these tariff items are from Chapter 84 of the Tariff Schedule which covers
machinery and mechanical appliances. Exemption from import tax covers a similar range of
goods.
41.    On 31 December 1993, in conjunction with the introduction of Foreign Currency Accounts
(FCAs) for exporters, the regulations governing repatriation of dividends from pre-1979
investments were liberalised, increasing the rate of automatic repatriation from 25% to 50% to
bring these investments into line with other pre 1993 investments.
42.    With the introduction of FCAs for exporters, investors are able to bring in their funds and
generate local currency by sale on the FCA market so as to benefit from any premium rather than
converting at the official exchange rate. In addition, with effect from January 1 1994, the
requirement for official approval of private sector external borrowings was relaxed with approval
now only required for loans in excess of $US 5 million.
43.   Increased private sector activity has also been encouraged through the Zimbabwe Investment
Centre which approved $552 million dollars of investments in the manufacturing sector in 1993.
The ZIC is now fully operational and has the task of promoting and assisting investors as well as
approving projects.
44.   An important component of the trade liberalisation programme is the objective of increasing
indigenous participation in the economy to ensure that all are able to benefit from reform.
Liberalisation will open up new opportunities for new small and indigenous businesses. To
encourage investment by the small scale sector, the Government has introduced a $400 million
small business sector facility, which will make funds available for investment purposes at
concessional interest rates. The first tranche of $150 million of this has been activated.
H.  DOMESTIC DEREGULATION
45.    An essential component of the structural adjustment programme is the relaxation of the regulatory
controls on economic activity. The objective is to allow business to respond quickly and
efficiently to the opportunities and pressures that will result from liberalisation elsewhere. In
addition, deregulation aims to increase competition to constrain prices and make industry more
responsive to the needs of consumers. Deregulation will also open up industries to new
investment opportunities leading to the growth of new businesses and a wider involvement of the
population in economic activity.
46.    Since December 1992, maize meal, bread, vegetable oils and milk have been freed from price
controls leaving only fertilizer for which cabinet approval is required for price increases.
47.   In the area of urban transport, the Government has deregulated passenger services in September
1993, by allowing commuter mini-buses to compete with the government owned passenger
transport company, ZUPCO.
48.    The removal of the maize meal subsidy could have resulted in increased hardships for urban
consumers. However, the Government deregulated the milling industry by allowing small-scale
hammer millers to operate in urban areas. This has considerably offset the cost to consumers of



- 43 -
the removal of the subsidy by enabling a consumption shift from higher priced roller meal to
straight-run meal from maize milled on a fee-for-service basis by these small-scale millers.
49.   The deregulation of agricultural marketing also progressed considerably in 1993, with a major
announcement by the Minister of Lands, Agricultural and Water Development in July, on changes
for the 1994/95 marketing year. The marketing of maize within Zimbabwe has been deregulated
(other than sales to the small number of large scale millers) with the Grain Marketing Board
taking the role of a residual buyer defending a floor price for white maize in selected depots
throughout the country. This reform has encouraged direct trade in maize between rural and
urban areas and has contributed to the growth of small scale milling in urban areas. Trade in
yellow maize is fully deregulated both in terms of prices and customers.
50.   For cotton, the requirement that all cotton must be delivered to the Cotton Marketing Board's
ginneries (or to agents appointed by the Board) will be abolished with effect from the 1994/95
marketing year. Private investment will be permitted into the domestic marketing and processing
of cotton and cotton products, and producers will be free to negotiate prices to their best
advantage.
51.   In the 1994/95 season, the deregulation already in place for groundnuts and soyabeans will be
extended to sunflowers. Private traders will be allowed to purchase and process sunflower seeds.
52.   As relates to beef, the floor prices for producers and wholesale beef will be eliminated for the
1994/95 marketing season. Slaughter quotas at all abattoirs are eliminated and private traders will
be able to participate in the market without restriction. As the result of the longer-term
deregulation of the beef industry, the Cold Storage Commission's share of the domestic market is
now below 45%.
53.   During the course of the year, the Deregulation Committee has examined issues such as licensing
restrictions on hawking and vending, building zoning, town planning by-laws and several other
local authority and municipal regulation which inhibit the development of the informal and small
scale sectors. In addition, the Government is establishing, with donor support, a full time project
team to assist the Committee in its work. This should significantly speed up the deregulation
programme. There are already some results from this review, with the establishment of "home
industries" and "open market places" intended to cater for the small scale entrepreneur in some
urban areas, particularly Harare.
I.  SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT PROGRAMME
54.   The Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA) was incorporated in the Economic Structural
Adjustment Programme to alleviate adverse short term effects. A detailed outline for the SDA
programme is provided in the Government document of 1991; "SDA: A Programme of Actions to
Mitigate the Social Cost of Adjustment".
55.   The Social Development Fund (SDF) in the Ministry of Public Service, Labour, and Social
Welfare (MPSL&SW) is responsible for coordinating the formulation and implementation of
programmes targeted at the most vulnerable groups of the population.



- 44 -
56.   While vulnerable groups are identified as women and children, resettlement families, informal
sector workers and retrenched persons, it is Government policy to address poverty regardless of
its origins. Thus all the social welfare programmes of the SDA are aimed at those below a
certain income threshold, regardless of the causes of their poverty. Only in the credit and
training programmes is there an attempt to target those specifically affected by the reforms, ie
retrenchees.
57.   The assessment of SDA programmes in 1993 indicates that while significant progress was made in
establishing policies and programmes to assist vulnerable and low-income groups problems were
also experienced in certain areas of implementation.
58.   The 1991/1992 drought slowed progress in some areas of the economic reform programme in
1993. The implementation of the SDA programme was slowed because staff and resources had to
be devoted to the drought relief effort. During most of 1992 and until the harvest in early 1993,
the drought relief programme, through the Department of Social Welfare, distributed 30,000
tonnes per month to over five million people in the rural areas. A child supplementary feeding
programme reached 1.5 million children. A subsidy on maize meal prevented the added cost of
imported maize from being passed on to consumers. In late 1992, a drought recovery programme
distributed free seed and fertiliser to 70% of Zimbabwe's communal farmers. The combination of
effective response by the Government and food aid contributions by donor agencies was
successful in helping the agricultural sector prepare for the good rains in 1992-93.
59.   Food-for-work programme This programme, administered by the Department of Social Welfare
(DSW), was the main instrument for drought relief. Each month, over the period 1992-1993, the
DSW coordinated the distribution of 30,000 tonnes of maize, valued at Z$ 36-42 million, to over
five million people. This continued from mid-1992 until the harvest in early 1993. The work
carried out included road repair, borehole construction, fencing, and gully reclamation. Since the
good 1993 harvest, the programme has been scaled back to cover only areas with below-average
rainfall, primarily in Matabeleland and Masvingo. Currently, the programme distributes about
3,000 tonnes of grain per month.
60.   Child supplementary feeding programme This programme is targeted at districts in which
nutritional surveillance indicated a need, as measured by the proportion of children below the
weight-for-age standard. During the peak of the drought, this programme covered over one
million children below the age of five. The need for supplementary feeding has declined since the
1993 harvest, so the programme has been scale back and now covers only a small number of
rural districts.
61.   Food Money programme This programme was designed to protect low-income urban consumers
from the effects of the increase in the price of maize meal in August 1992. Under this
programme, the Department of Social Welfare provides Z$ 4 per person per month to households
earning less than $ 200 per month (the amount is based on the price increase and an assumed
consumption of 10 kg per month). To qualify, households must present documentation of urban
residence, family size, and income. This programme became operational in late 1992. As of
October 1993, about Z$ 310,000 had been disbursed. This represents a increase of 1131% in
assistance compared to the same period in 1992.



- 45 -
62.   Roller meal subsidy While other subsidies were being phased out, the subsidy of roller meal (a
popular grade of maize meal) was maintained throughout the drought by subsidising maize
purchases by industrial millers and controlling the retail price. Although costly (Z$ 50-60 million
per month), this subsidy helped keep the price of the staple food down during the time of greatest
hardship. Urban households were a major beneficiary, but household surveys indicated that most
rural households supplemented drought-relief rations with roller meal as well. Following the
favourable 1993 harvest, the government removed the subsidy and lifted roller meal price controls
in June. As a result, the price of roller meal increased by about 50%.
63.   Maize marketing liberalisation To alleviate the impact of the subsidy removal, however, the
Government simultaneously liberalised maize marketing regulations, allowing maize grain to be
brought into the urban areas by private traders. In carrying out this reform, the Government
effectively allowed small-scale hammer mills producing straight-run maize meal to compete on an
equal basis with the large-scale mills producing roller meal. As a result of the good harvest and
market liberalisation, consumers can now buy grain and have it milled at the hammer mills at a
cash cost significantly below the price of roller meal; in fact, the cost is only slightly higher than
the old subsidised price of roller meal. This has generated a major shift in consumption,
particularly in the urban areas. The share of straight-run meal in urban maize consumption has
risen from close to zero in early 1993 to around 50% today. The hammer millers have responded
to this surge in demand by expanding rapidly. Thus, maize market liberalisation has assured the
poorest urban consumers with a low-cost staple without any drain on the fiscus.
64.   Education The share of education in the 1993-94 budget is 19.2%, a percentage which is high by
international standards and at least as high as the budget share allocated to education during the
1980s. However, under ESAP, overall government spending has risen more slowly than the rate
of inflation, so the levels of real per capita spending in education have fallen .
65.   As part of the cost recovery programme of ESAP, school fees were introduced for urban primary
schools in 1992 (secondary school fees were already being collected). However, several measures
have been introduced to minimise the risk that children will be withdrawn from school for
economic reasons:
* Rural primary school students are exempted from school fees. These students account for
over half of the three million primary and secondary school pupils in Zimbabwe.
* Secondary school fees have been adjusted so they are lowest in the rural areas, followed by
the high-density urban areas, and then the low-density suburbs. Similarly, primary school
fees are lower in high-density urban areas than in low-density suburbs. In addition, fees for
primary school are lower than those for secondary school.
* Per pupil tuition grants from the Government to the schools are higher for rural schools than
for urban schools.
66.   SDF school fee payment programme In addition, the Social Development Fund (SDF) administers
a school fee payment programme in which the SDF pays for school and examination fees for
pupils from households earning less than Z$ 400 per month. Parents apply to the Department of
Social Welfare, providing documents to prove identity, school enrolment, and income. Usually,
the school headmaster participates in the selection of eligible pupils.



- 46 -
67.   In 1993 more students were assisted with school fees payment in comparison with 1992. The SDF
school fee payment programme paid school fees of 100,790 students and the examination fees of
15,463 students in 1993 in comparison with 21,837 students assisted under the school fees
programme and 430 students assisted with examination fees in 1992. Total expenditure to date is
more than Z$15 million, about half of which has been spent for examination fees.
68.   Health The share allocated to health in the 1993-94 budget is 5.9%, at or above the level
maintained during the 1980's. Cost recovery has meant the introduction of fees on various types
of health care services.
69.   In order to ensure that low-income households continue to have access to health care services, the
Government announced in 1992 a policy of exemption from health care fees for households
earning less than Z$ 150 per month. This threshold was subsequently raised to Z$ 400 per
month. The Department of Social Welfare has issued over 30,000 free-treatment-orders which
confirm a household's eligibility for free medical care. However, the actual number of
beneficiaries undoubtedly exceeds this figure because many health clinics offer free care based on
their own (less formal) determination of eligibility.
70.   Although it is difficult to measure the cost of health care fee exemption because it does not
involve reimbursement, it is believed to be more costly than the other social welfare programmes.
T'he expansion of the system of free treatment orders is expected to improve the transparency of
the programme, allowing quantification of its costs.
71.   The Government has decided that the SDF will be used to provide block grants to several types of
health facilities which are bound by the fee-exemption policy but do not receive any compensating
subsidies from the Ministry of Health and Child Welfare. These facilities include municipal
clinics, mission clinics, and the Hwange private hospital. The modalities for these block grants
were worked out in December 1993.
72.   EmDloyment programmes The Government has implemented several programmes to facilitate
employment growth, including the SDF Employment and Training Programme, a Z$ 100 million
loan programme for small-scale enterprises, and the Youth Training Programme. Each of these
are described below.
73.   SDF Employment and Training Programme This programme currently caters for retrenched
workers both from the private sector as well as from the public sector. The objective is to train
and reorient retrenchees so that they are able to generate self-employment in the informal and
small-scale enterprise sectors. The ETP has a training and a credit component.
74.    More than 3000 retrenched persons received training on how to start and run your own business
in 1993. Of these 75% were private sector retrenchees. In the same period in 1992, only 764
retrenchees had been trained. This therefore represents a 279% increase in training between 1992
and 1993.
75.   Under the credit portion of the ETP, the Social Development Fund finances projects that have
been proposed by the retrenchees. In terms of project identification, preparation, and appraisal,
the trained retrenchee is assisted by private sector business consultants who are paid by the fund
for every approved project they submit on behalf of the retrenchee. These proposals are



- 47 -
evaluated and approved by Loans and Grants Committee (LOGAC), an inter-Ministerial
committee chaired by the Ministry of Finance. The loans may be in amounts up to Z$ 80,000,
but most are in the range of Z$ 40,000 to Z$ 60,000. The interest rate is concessional (10%).
About two thirds of the loans have been given to retrenchees from the private sector, while the
remaining third have gone to retrenched civil servants. The loans have been used to start
businesses in maize milling, horticulture, poultry, urban transport, oil processing, metal-working,
and retailing, among others.
76.   In 1993 about 300 projects had been approved at a total cost of Z$ 15 million. Of particular
significance is that the approved projects have an initial job creation potential of 1460 jobs. This
is at a cost of about Z$10000 per new job created. This is significantly lower than the cost of
creating a new job in the formal sector which now stands at more than Z$ 75,000.
77.   Poverty Alleviation Action Programme Recognising the rather limited focus of the SDA
programmes and the need for a more comprehensive strategy for dealing with the problem of
poverty, unemployment and social welfare, the government formulated a Poverty Alleviation
Action Plan in late 1993. The plan, accepted by Cabinet in early 1994, lays out a framework for
addressing some of the major symptoms of poverty, and is being used as a basis for seeking
support from the donor community for a broader range of activities than was encompassed by
SDA.
78.   The plan encompasses an expansion in public works programmes to provide employment and
income support for low-income households, with community participation in the selection of
projects. It also aims to streamline and expand coverage of key SDF welfare activities, such as
school and health care fee payment programmes. Also included is a range of credit and training
programmes to promote the development of small scale enterprises and assisting target groups -
including women and retrenchees, coupled with establishment of industrial estates at growth
points.
IV. FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROGRAMME
79.   Generally speaking, implementation of ESAP during the period during which SAC I and SAL I
provided support was satisfactory, but there were some important slippages. As regards the
specific programme of actions agreed under the operation financed by the operations, waivers
were granted with respect to two conditions for release of second tranche of the facilities. These
waivers concerned conditions relating to progress in reducing the overall fiscal deficit and in
reducing parastatal deficits.
80.   When these waivers were granted, it was the case that the lack of progress could be attributed to
the effects of the drought. However, it has become apparent that the financial overruns may
reflect rather more deep-seated problems with respect to some aspects of ESAP, namely the
overall control of public expenditures, and the parastatal reform programme. These problems
have threatened to jeopardise the overall success of the programme. It is therefore important to
examine some of the factors which are affecting implementation of ESAP, since they have an
important bearing on implementation of the specific World Bank operations under review.



- 48 -
81.   The main factors affecting implementation of the Economic Structural Adjustment Programme
during the period of SAC I and SAL I were:
Factors beyond Government control:
the drought, which upset both fiscal and balance of payments targets of the programme,
which in turn, combined with the impact on agricultural incomes and domestic demand,
undermined the fledgling supply response to the programme.
the impact of the global recession and the disintegration of the former Soviet Union, which
led to a further fall - in some cases quite precipitous - in prices for Zimbabwe's primary
exports.
Other factors:
the failure to develop and implement expeditiously a comprehensive strategy for public sector
enterprise reform: this failure seriously undermined the efforts to restrain and redirect
government spending.
inadequate preparation of a financial sector reform strategy, to provide for the institutional
reforms needed to complement the interest and exchange rate deregulations implemented
early in the programme.
limited institutional capacity: despite the establishment of a monitoring and implementation
unit in the Ministry of Finance, weak capacity in line ministries and implementing agencies
led to an overstretching of resources devoted to policy analysis and formulation in a period
when far-reaching policy reforms needed to be designed.
lack of coherent coordination of donor activities and weaknesses in management of donor
funds. Piecemeal interactions with donors made policy coordination more difficult, given the
fragmented and divergent nature of their interests. While disbursement procedures for the
World Bank funds worked reasonably well, difficulties were experienced with other sources
of balance of payment support, and in disbursement of project financing through the Vote of
Credit system. This resulted in shortfalls in external financing of the budget, and much
higher than programmed deficit financing from the domestic banking system.
a weak partnership between government and the private sector, especially in the early stages
of the programme. Lack of confidence in the Government's commitment to the programme
triggered an over-reaction to the early trade liberalisations, as business built large stocks of
imports under the OGIL system. Mutual suspicion, feeding on poor communications,
sometimes frustrated smooth development of policy reforms.
a poorly articulated framework for dealing with the social dimensions of adjustment and
priorities for alleviating poverty. This left the Government vulnerable to - generally
unfounded - accusations regarding its investments in human resources, and pressures to
adopt ill-thought out programmes. Thus, instead of building on the Government's strong
record in health and education, attention was diverted to more peripheral activities.



- 49 -
the quality of data to support economic policy For a number of reasons, the flow of
economic statistics deteriorated in the early part of the 1990s. Timely data on key economic
aggregates were not forthcoming, and this impacted negatively on the management of the
programme.
82.   Despite these negative factors, government and community commitment to ESAP remained fairly
strong, although the drought and its aftermath (particularly the surge in inflation and the
restrictive monetary policies it prompted) led to great hardships which tested the nation's resolve.
The drought, and the sharp decline in income and activity it brought about, made implementation
of key aspects of the programme - such as civil service reform (with its associated retrenchments),
and elimination of subsidies much harder to implement. In fact, pursuit of programme targets to
avoid slippages might have placed the whole programme in jeopardy. Also, an underlying risk
associated with the programme: that of perceptions of a skewing of benefits in favour of the white
minority and black elites, was not fully catered for in the early development of the programme.
This perception has arisen despite the fact that the privileged position of minorities was being
sustained by the regulatory regime being dismantled under ESAP. As a result, some measures
have had to be introduced to more explicitly cater for indigenous business interests.
83.   The programme has been helped, however, by improvements in the regional political and
security situation: peace in Mozambique, and the move towards democracy in South Africa
allowed greater attention to be focussed on domestic economic issues.
84.   An important issue is the quality of technical support from the World Bank and the IMF.
Zimbabwe's programme was initiated with a much shorter history of interaction with these
institutions than has been the case in other parts of Africa. To some degree, this reflects the
success of the government's prudent attitude towards external borrowing. However, one
consequence may have been a less aggressive use of these institutions as a source of technical
support than may have been possible.
85.   The main lessons to be learned from implementation performance under ESAP are summarised
below.
I1.    Adequacy of preparation, and the dynamics of reform.
86.   Because Zimbabwe entered its economic reform programme from a much stronger position than
many of its neighbours in Africa, it faced both advantages and disadvantages. The advantages
included a much stronger human, infrastructural and institutional base providing the context in
economic reforms would operate. The absence of a debt servicing crisis meant that there was less
need for draconian and disruptive internal and external adjustments.
87.   By the same token the starting position muffled the necessary sense of urgency needed to
implement the wide ranging and complex elements of the programme. This meant, in particular,
that the detailed preparatory and analytical work needed to support challenging activities such as
parastatal, financial sector and civil service reform (all critical to achieving both fiscal and
monetary balance and increasing efficiency), was often delayed.
88.   Over time, and perhaps partly as a consequence of both the debilitating effects of the drought, and
changes in the external and internal climate for reform, the sense of urgency at the decision-



- 50 -
making level began to accelerate. However, the analytical base for decision-making was not
always in place, so policy reforms were delayed, or made on the basis of incomplete evaluation of
options and implications.
2.    Contingency planning, and managing shocks.
89.   Given the drought cycle in Southern Africa, it was reasonable to suppose that a drought could
occur during the life of the programme. A framework for dealing with such a shock should have
been elaborated as part of the programme itself, particularly as regards contingency plans for
public expenditures, deficit financing and early mobilisation of international support. Lack of a
coherent contingency plan has led to a "knee-jerk"reaction - in the form of excessive and under-
financed stock building - by the Grain Marketing Board, which threatened the fiscal foundations
of the recovery from the drought.
3.    Partnership with agencies funding the programme.
90.   Some of the more successful structural elements of the programme - in terms of those which have
been implemented effectively and in a timely fashion - have benefitted from timely and
professional technical support from the Government's partners in ESAP. This has helped to
bolster the Government's own technical work, and also to ensure that the issues have been high
on the agenda. The effectiveness of this co-operation has, however, been jeopardised at times by
lack of continuity in staffing by the World Bank and the IMF, which impacted on the timeliness
and quality of advice from the main external partners in ESAP.
4.    Effectiveness of programme co-ordination structures
91.   Despite the establishment of a Monitoring Committee and a range of sub-committees dealing to
oversee aspects of the programme, coordination activities have not always been as successful as
expected. This is due in part to the fact that officials were expected to take on such
responsibilities in addition to their other tasks, and the complexity of some components of the
programme was not matched by an allocation of appropriate technical skills. The programme has
suffered because inadequate resources was given to some of the institutionally oriented efforts
required.
92.   The Monitoring and Implementation Unit needed additional resources, and to be more effectively
freed from responsibilities not germane to its immediate mandate. A more comprehensive re-
orientation of responsibilities within the Ministry of Finance would have been desirable to create
room for the MIU to take on a greater analytical function. A consequence of the overloading of
the MIU has been the delay in undertaking a thorough mid-term review of the programme which
could form the basis of a re-evaluation and re-setting of priorities.
5.    Limitations of the consensus approach to policy formulation
93.   Some parts of the programme - particularly those calling for broad institutional changes - may
have suffered because the approach to policy formulation focused too heavily on developing
consensus positions. For example, given the inherently conservative response likely to be
forthcoming from parastatals whose raison d'etre is challenged by the reform programme,



- 51 -
development of, and decision taking on, the key strategies should perhaps not involve these
agencies . Their role should be more in the area of implementation.
6.     Need for coordinated implementation of elements of the programme
94.   ESAP is a far-reaching and complex programme, working on a number of fronts. Achieving the
supply, export and employment responses sought by the programme requires that liberalisation
and institutional development activities be implemented in tandem. Critical institutional reforms
have lagged, thwarting responses to the deregulatory efforts and increasing the risk of de-
industrialisation. For example, studies and actions in areas such as
regulation and supervision of the financial sector
strategies for domestic deregulation and indigenisation
establishing a Monopolies Commission
establishing a Tariff Commission
reforming the Zimbabwe Investment Centre
formulating an industrial policy for the era following the end of foreign exchange controls
should have been in place at an earlier stage of the programme.
V. CONCLUSION
95.        Despite the problems identified in the preceding section, overall implementation of the
programmes supported by SAL I and SAC I can be judged to be successful, especially when the
destabilising effects of the 1991/92 drought are taken into account. Building on this success will require
stronger efforts on the fiscal front, complemented by more forceful pursuit of the public sector enterprise
reform programme. The objective here is not only to reduce deficits and to make more resources
available for the productive sectors. It is also to effect a re-orientation of Government spending, to
preserve and build on past achievements in the health, education and infrastructure sector and to ensure
that the benefits of ESAP are to spread to the wider community
96.   Given the severity of the drought, it is not surprising that the supply response to ESAP has been
somewhat muted. However, Government has been acting forcefully to improve the climate for new
investment, particularly foreign investment, and the fruits of these efforts are beginning to be seen. The
aggressive trade and exchange reforms of the past year will be complemented by actions to ensure that the
incentive and regulatory framework encourage investments that expand employment opportunities and
create a favourable environment for small and medium scale enterprises to flourish.



- 52 -
Appendix C.1
KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS, 1990-94
1991     1992     1993       1994
(proj)    (proj)
Real Growth
GDP Growth Rate (% pa)                               4.9      -7.7       2.0       4.4
Gross Investment (% of GDP)                         22.0    20.0        20.5      21.0
of which: private                                 17.7     15.7      16.0       16.3
Gross National Savings (% of GDP)                    15.1     9.1       18.8      17.4
Fiscal Account (% of GDP)'
Budgetary Revenues                                  33.4     35.1       31.0      32.1
Govemment Expenditures                              43.0    42.7       42.2       37.9
Overal Deficit befom Grants                          9.6      7.6       11.2       5.8
Overam  Deficit after Grants                         8.4       6.2       8.1       4.0
Bank financing of Budget                             0.4      18.1       6.3       2.72
Drought-related Expenditure                           -       2.7        4.6       1.1
External Trade
Export volume (% pa)                                -1.2      -3.9      12.1       9.0
Import volume (% pa)'                               16.4      3.4      -15.3       9.5
Current Account Deficit (% of GDP)
Before Grants                                   8.4      15.1       5.0       6.9
After Grants                                    6.9      10.9       1.7       3.6
Extemal Debt Service (% of Exports, GNFS)           22.0     28.4       31.4      28.9
Real Effective Exchange Rate (% pa)'               -35.3     36.3        0.5       n.a
Inflation (% pa)5                                   23.6     42.7      25.4       16.9'
Source: Govemment of Zimbabwe and IMF (24 January 1994)
Notes:
1. On fiscal year basis (July I - June 30; ending in calendar year indicated).
2. Change from September 1993 to September 1994.
3. Current doUars.
4. Negative values imply depreciation; end of period.
5. Annual average; consumer prices.



- 53 -
Appendix C.2
SOURCES OF OUTPUT GROWTH
Average Annual Growth
(Constant Prices)
1980-90     1991      1992       1993
Proj.
Manufacturing                                  2.8        2.8       -9.5      -8.9
Other Industry                                 2.9       -4.4      -1.5        2.7
Agriculture & Forestry                         2.4        3.1     -24.4       25.0
Mining and Quarrying                           1.0        5.5       -5.5       1.4
Services                                       3.3        7.1       -3.7       2.0
GDP at Factor Cost                             2.9        4.9       -7.7       2.0
Source: Staff calculations based on data provided by the Central Statistical Office.



- 54 -
Appendix C.3
BUDGET DEFICIT, 1989/90 - 1994/95.
Deficit (excluding grants) as percentage of GDP
1989/   1990/   1991/   1992/   1993/9   1994/9
l _____________________________      90       91       92      93        4        5
FER program                          -      10.6     8.6      7.6      6.6       5.6
SAP Presidents Report:LDP (Dec.     9.8    10.6      7.2      -         -        5.0
1991)1
SAP Second Tranche Release (Oct.     -       -       9.3      -        4.7       -
1992)
Outturn                             9.8      9.6     7.6    11.2        -        -
Projected                            -       -        -       -        5.8       3.4
Drought-related expenditure (% of            -       2.7      4.6      1.1       -
GDP)                                              I        I       I _       I
Note:   1. The 1991/92 figure reflects the 1991/92 Budget (July) and the further
subsequent changes in 1991.
Source: Outturn and projections from PFP (January 1994).



- 55 -
Appendix C.4
GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURE: SHARES IN TOTAL
% of GDP
1991/92      1992/93       1993/94
(program)
Current Expenditure                            34.0           35.9          29.7
of which:
wages and salaries                            13.2          12.6          11.5
debt interest                                  6.1           7.1           6.3
subsidies                                      4.3           3.4           1.0
Capital Expenditure                             4.3            4.4           4.9
Total Expenditure                              42.7           42.2          37.9
Memo:
Defense Expenditure                             5.4            4.7           4.4
Drought-related Expenditure                     2.7            4.6           1.1
Operating Losses of Parastatals'                1.9            2.8          2.1
Note:
1. Largest nine parastatals (excluding ZESA).



- 56 -
Appendix C.5
CIVIL SERVICE REFORM: REDUCTIONS IN STAFFING LEVELS.
Actual Cumulative        Posts          Cumulative Loss of Posts
Loss of Posts Since    Remaining           Since June 30 1991     |
June 30 1991
Original     Target of
Target     (April 1993)
(December
1991)                  l
June 30 1991                   -            183,521               -               -
June 30 1992               7,000                   -        5,000 (6%)            -
June 30 1993              10,0442           173,477              12,000      13,000
October 31 1993           11,344            172,177              (14%)            -
March 31 1994             17,049            166,472
June 30 1994                                                                          l
September 30                                                     19,000           -
1994                                                             (22%)       25,000
June 30 1995                                                    2
22,000
(25%)
Notes:
1.     1991-95 target of 22,000 losses; 25% of 1991 stock.
2.    Incorporated 4,896 civil servant redundancies.
Source:   ESAF, Jan 94.



- 57 -
Appendix C.6
OPERATING LOSSES OF LARGEST PUBLIC ENTERPRISES.
Z$ millions.
1990/91        1991/92          1992/93         1993/94
actual                     progra  actual      program
m
SAP Presidents             634        370 (program)          -               -
Report
(December 1991)3
-               -         350       -          100
SAP Second Tranche
Release (October
1992)                                 581.7 (actual)  338.1   653.2          -
IMF:   Major 10                       497.2 (actual)  479.1   916.1        815.3
enterprises'
Major 9
enterprises2
Notes:
Largest are defined as including: NRZ, GMB, CSC, DMB, CMB, AZC, ZISCO,
AFC, NOCZIM, ZESA.
2      Excluding ZESA.
3      Excluding NOCZIM.
Source:   IMF Second-year ESAF/EFF, January 1994.



- 58 -
Appendix C.7
FOREIGN EXCHANGE AND TRADE LIBERALIZATION
PHASE 1:
October 1990          Export Retention Scheme (ERS) introduced: exporters may retain 5% of earnings in
mining/agriculture and 7.5% in other sectors; exchange utilization limited to importation of
raw materials and capital goods for exporters own use.
Restricted Open General Import License (OGIL) system introduced: covering inputs for
cement, packaging, textiles, and mining industries.
February 1991         OGIL system expanded.
July 1991             OGIL system expanded, and made unrestricted (ie importation of eligible products no longer
requires import license).
September 1991        Real depreciation of official rate of 35% since July 1991.
December 1991         OGIL expanded to cover 15% of imports by value.
Planned expansion of OGIL and ERS identified:
Dec 91 June 92 Dec 92 June 93 Dec 93
OGIL: rate (%)  15     15    20      35    35
ERS:  rate (%)  15    25    30       30    35
September 1992        Stable nominal official exchange rate since September 1991; consequential real effective
appreciation of 33%.
ERS rate increased to 30%; and entitlements made tradeable.
December 1992         OGIL further expanded to cover about 20% of aggregate import value.
PHASE 2:
April 1 1993          ERS rates increased to 50% for all sectors.
Dividends and profits on post-1979 investments may be externalized through ERS;
relaxation of controls on repatriation of capital.
Real effective depreciation of official rate of 15% over Ql 1993.
June 1993             Foreign currency accounts (FCA) introduced: residents and non-residents permitted to
transact freely in foreign exchange from all sources (except export receipts) at market-
determined exchange rate, without questions asked, effectively, liberalizes current and capital
account for individuals.
FCA exchange trades at a premium of 25/30% over official rate.
December 1993
ERS entitlements trade at premiums over official rate of about 20%.



- 59 -
January 1, 1994       Abolition of OGIL window.
ERS transformed from retention of entitlements to retention of foreign exchange itself, which
may now be freely traded in domestic market through commercial banks and authorized
dealers, and used for all imports, including key services. ERS rate increased to 60% for all
sectors.
FCAs extended to corporations, allowing exporters to retain up to 60% of their foreign
currency eamings with the commercial banks, and to trade currency at market rate.
Nominal official exchange rate depreciated 17.1% on Jan 1, against basket of major trading
partner currencies, reducing spread between official and new FCA market rates to 5%.
Import licensing abolished: unrestricted importation allowed subject only to small negative
list.
Access to official rate foreign exchange from RBZ Limited to Govemment and Government-
generated debt service: private sector transactions limited largely to FCA market at market-
April 1994            detemiined rate (except for petroleum and PTA imports).
September 1994        Spread between official and FCA market rate at around 1% to 2%.
December 1994         ERS rate to be raised from 60% to 75%.
Objective of fully market based foreign exchange allocation system: unification of exchange
rates.






\ j j < ~MALAWI Z., -2   ,
ZAMBIA            ~     )} ,e                                        
/  A  \g  ,>o ,^. rJzrl u r _6<Chirundu 2 > ^ ! !4                                                                                               7 A,: A %    
NAMIBIIA \ ZIMBABW                   i  N D) I A NW                                  Ka,,bo                                   1                 CENTRAL               >Ei 
>       (           ~~~~~~O C EA N                             .                                                        Guruve  Centenaryf     
BOTSWANA                                                                                                          _.-,,, Mhrznguro               0          C =W 
/   AFRICA  l, ---'              - ( > .>.>                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~MASHONA LAND                          0 /to\ oAuvI     i/    D        rnf
(   ) z                     -      X    gI<ARIEAX            /~~~~~~~~L4.K          WEST          clRfno+                  Bindura                     , ~
To,,.^L R       Mbb-                                                                                   CHINHOYI            Bres \_            t        /iMok  
>      \       # ~~~~T. Chomo                /       Bngo                                       &               Tre lov4  ey                          rehw       < <  /at
<   1  1 .        //                                                  |                 Dorwentole9  Wff _>                                         Y  Xt 7~~~~o-en)
-;5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Qw                                                                                                          MLAND RE/'
_ aa  \  Folls   >   z  _ P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ te                                        Che~~~C"gutu C  2 y    io            
>   \   >   </    2                           gg             ~~~~~ ~~               ~      ~      ~     ~     ~~~~~~~~Gokw  B a~ 2  B rice                                  1
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ d.m                                                                                          Mrondr(                 Idi I 
\                   \          \  ~~~~~~         ~      ~~~~Lupane  \                Kwekwe                                 )       \      \               _J
|                 \e    / XfMATABALFLAND  \si                                +        ~       ~~ Chivhu                                   \. ~
\ \> > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~NORTH                           Na                   Mvmo aUT mu    E
ZIMB BWE                                                                                                                                             k   2f T <       0
-    MAJOR STATE ROADS                         Putree             <       ~       t    !  Zvisho        v g,              f              
PAILROADS                                                     F igtree                                     y  _Nigw.                                                        T. B-.5/N(;jhpne\7 oe
MAJOR RIVERS                           T,. )\                                                                     gu  u         PJrr                    D       /
NAT10NAL CAPITAL                      F--t-so_                                                                          I ti)                             9 
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT                                        PNA,BLEA     
OTHER AIRPORTS                                   '% SCUH                                                                                          Nandog   \ ) > Nn i   /
e) PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                 sRuen                         .                          Q 
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                \\                                tG                               i=t\                                 -  
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                    e 05   ,/ (~ oeonnt
~~~ hF \ \ \ / ~~~~~~~~~~~~other 'rfo-at,on shown
c?                                                     (               \          /          X              >          /           Im~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ply,0  on the part of _
: KlLONeLTi RS O 50 10r) 1 SO -\_5<< \ \f</ z / ony ludgment on the legot: w~~~~~~.y jug,net onthe ego
=                         j                                               r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r ~~~~~~~~~Beitbridge  1           T. Mnp,t.    Oatotu   of any t-rrtory   r
c ba ~~~LES               O           50                               21                  u         O            -p                                                          b  ;tPeot  ounclanes J



