Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3434 ZIM
                   (Structural Adjustment Loan)
                              between
                       REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated February 4, 1992
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3434 ZIM
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 4, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF
ZIMBABWE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated December 20,
1991, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the
Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and request-
ing assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently needed
imports required during such execution; and
      (B)   the Borrower has also requested the International
Development Association (the Association) to provide additional
financial assistance towards the financing of such urgently needed
imports and by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Association, the Association is agreeing to provide
such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to
thirty five million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 35,900,000) (the Credit);
Page  2
      (C)   the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit be disbursed on account
of expenditures in respect of such imports before disbursements of
the proceeds of the Loan provided for in this Agreement are made;
      (D)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the
Borrower by making the Loan in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
            "'Project' means the imports and other activities that
            may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant
            to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";
      (b)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
            "(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date
      or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
      the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and
      furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail
      as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
      program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the
      performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
      obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of
      the purposes of the Loan.";
      (c)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
      (d)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be incon-
      sistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the
      Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association for the
Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and
such terms includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, date January 1, 1985, as
applied to such agreement, and all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement;
      (b)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Clas-
sification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986);
      (c)   "Zimbabwe Dollars" and "Z$" mean the currency of the
Borrower;
      (d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
Page  3
      (e)   "OGIL" means the Borrower's open general import
licensing system described in its Control of Goods, (Import and
Export) Regulations, 1986, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
and
      (f)   "ERS" means the Export Retention Scheme established by
the Borrower on July 26, 1990.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred and twenty five million dollars
($125,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank through the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protec-
tion against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.
           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
Page  4
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Quali-
      fied Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
            "(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.08. (a) The Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
      (b)   Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe with respon-
sibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications under the
Loan and for the collection of the documents and other evidence to
be furnished to the Bank in support of such applications; such with-
drawal applications shall, to the extent practicable, be consoli-
dated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less
than $2,000,000 equivalent.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Page  5
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing princi-
                  ples consistently applied, by independent audi-
                  tors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, a certified copy of the report
                  of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
                  in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Ac-
                  count was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audits referred to in paragraph
                  (b) of this Section and that the report of such
                  audit contains a separate opinion by said audi-
                  tors as to whether the statements of expenditure
                  submitted during such fiscal year, together with
                  the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                  the related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                  Additional Event of Suspension
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions,
namely that, all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement shall have been fulfilled, other than
those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Page  6
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
      Section 5.03. If the Development Credit Agreement terminates
prior to the termination of this Agreement, the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement referred to in this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect between the Borrower and the Bank.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister responsible for Finance, Economic Planning
and Development of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            The Senior Secretary
            Ministry of Finance, Economic Planning
              and Development
            Private Bag 7705
            Causeway, Harare
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINFIN                     MINFIN 22141 ZW
                  Harare                     Zimbabwe
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
                  By /s/ Elisha Mushayakarara
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Katherine Marshall
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
Page  7
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods on the OGIL or
goods imported under the ERS required during the execution of the
Program and to be financed out of such proceeds. To the extent
practicable, the proceeds of the Credit provided for in the
Development Credit Agreement on account of expenditures in respect
of such goods shall be disbursed before disbursements of the
proceeds of the Loan.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to
the Borrower:
      Group       Sub-group         Description of Items
      112               -           Alcoholic beverages
      121               -           Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobac-
                                    co refuse
      122               -           Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                    or not containing tobacco sub-
                                    stitutes)
      525               -           Radioactive and associated ma-
                                    terials
      667               -           Pearls, precious and semi-pre-
                                    cious stones, unworked or
                                    worked
      718         718.7             Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                    thereof, fuel elements (cart-
                                    ridges), non-irradiated for
                                    nuclear reactors
      Group       Sub-group         Description of Items
      728         728.43            Tobacco processing machinery
      897         897.3             Jewelry of gold, silver or pla-
                                    tinum group metals (except wat-
                                    ches and watch cases) and gold-
                                    smiths' or silversmiths' wares
                                    (including set gems)
      971         -                 Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                    gold ores and concentrates)
      (b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
      (c)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
      (d)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $2,000 equivalent;
      (e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance;
Page  8
      (f)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
      (g)   expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to $25,000,000 for petroleum products and foodstuffs.
3.    Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procure-
ment of goods estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 may be
permitted by the Bank upon the basis of statements of expenditure
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify.
4.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan after
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached
the equivalent of $55,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied,
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the
progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Program, and (b) that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement have been taken.
5.    If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4
above, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the
progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within
90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved
progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the
Loan or any part thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
July 15, 1997                                   2,280,000
January 15, 1998                                2,370,000
July 15, 1998                                   2,460,000
January 15, 1999                                2,555,000
July 15, 1999                                   2,655,000
January 15, 2000                                2,755,000
July 15, 2000                                   2,860,000
January 15, 2001                                2,975,000
July 15, 2001                                   3,085,000
January 15, 2002                                3,205,000
July 15, 2002                                   3,330,000
January 15, 2003                                3,460,000
July 15, 2003                                   3,595,000
January 15, 2004                                3,730,000
July 15, 2004                                   3,875,000
January 15, 2005                                4,025,000
July 15, 2005                                   4,180,000
January 15, 2006                                4,345,000
July 15, 2006                                   4,510,000
January 15, 2007                                4,685,000
July 15, 2007                                   4,865,000
January 15, 2008                                5,055,000
July 15, 2008                                   5,250,000
January 15, 2009                                5,455,000
July 15, 2009                                   5,665,000
January 15, 2010                                5,885,000
July 15, 2010                                   6,110,000
January 15, 2011                                6,345,000
July 15, 2011                                   6,590,000
January 15, 2012                                6,845,000
________________________
Page  9
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                  Premium
                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum) appli-
                                    cable to the Loan on the day of
                                    prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                       0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                       0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                         0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                      0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity
More than 16 years but not                      0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity
More than 18 years before                       1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 3
                            Procurement
1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
      "2.8 Notification and Advertising
            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
      of general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:
            (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication,
                  Development Business; or
           (ii)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                  technical journal of wide international circula-
                  tion; or
Page  10
          (iii)   a notice to local representatives of countries
                  and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                  that are potential suppliers of the goods re-
                  quired."
      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."
      (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.    Goods to be procured under paragraph 1 of this Schedule shall
be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by a third-party
inspection firm.
3.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $2,000,000 shall be awarded:
      (a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Bank; and
      (b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, except that direct contracting procedures
acceptable to the Bank may be used where considered appropriate
under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
4.    Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded
commodities may be procured through organized international
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.
5.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. Where payments
under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special
Account, such copies together with the other information required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to this paragraph shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence required under
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
6.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 3 and
4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such documenta-
tion and information as the Bank may reasonably request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract. Where payments
under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special
Account, the documentation and the information to be furnished to
the Bank pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence required under
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
7.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 6 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from
the Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
                            SCHEDULE 4
              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b)
Page  11
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.    The Borrower has implemented its FY 1991/1992 budget with a
deficit (excluding grants) not exceeding 8.3% of Gross Domestic
Product, with such deficit having been further reduced by an amount
equal to the net revenues arising from additional measures taken by
the Borrower since October 1991 as set forth in the Program.
2.    The Borrower has taken all necessary action so that by
June 30, 1992, the operational losses of enterprises referred to in
paragraph 11 of the Program incurred during the period July 1, 1991
to June 30, 1992, have been reduced to Z$370,000,000.
3.    The Borrower has reduced the number of authorized positions in
its Civil Service by 5,000 positions by June 30, 1992.
4.    The Borrower has implemented the public sector investment
program for FY 1991/1992 agreed with the Bank and has adopted a
public sector investment program for FY 1992/1993 after consultation
with the Bank.
5.    The Borrower has taken all necessary action so that by
June 30, 1992, goods representing at least 15% of the aggregate
value of imports during January 1 to December 31, 1991 have been
classified as unrestricted in the OGIL. In addition, as of that
date, all exporters shall be entitled to at least a 25% retention of
foreign exchange earned on account of exports under the ERS.
6.    The Borrower has taken all necessary action to permit its Post
and Telecommunication Commission and the Zimbabwe Electricity Supply
Authority to make adjustments to their tariffs to cover cost
categories agreed with the Bank.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
      (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $20,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                  vals as the Bank shall specify.
Page  12
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the Spe-
                  cial Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account in the respective equivalent amounts as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of
the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Project shall follow
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expendi-
tures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
Page  13
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
