Report No. PID8043
Project Name                     Togo-Social Fund
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Social Sector
Project ID                       TGPE52263
Borrower                         The Government of Togo
Implementing Agency              Agence d'Appui aux Initiatives
de Base (AGAIB) -
Region Savanes (Dapaong)
Region Maritime (Tsevie)
Date PID Prepared                July 26, 1999
Appraisal Date                   November 1997
Board Date                       April 16 1999
(Regional VP Date)
1. Country and Sector Background: Poor households and communities in Togo face a variety
of constraints including lack of access to government services (health, education, family
planning, extension), inadequate water supply and sanitation, difficult access to markets,
limited employment opportunities, land shortage and degradation, and unequal access to
productive resources. In 1995, in response to high levels of poverty and economic
deterioration resulting from the 1991-93 political crisis, the Government of Togo
developed the National Program to Fight Poverty (PNLP), with UNDP support. This program
focuses on three sets of activities: (1) employment creation and revenue distribution to
benefit the rural and urban poor, (2) improvement of social services for the poor and (3)
accompanying measures with components on population dynamics, women's status and social
mobilization. Much of the funding for this program has not yet been mobilized.
2. Project Objectives. Reduce poverty by establishing two regional social funds to test
the feasibility of a decentralized network of social funds.
3. Rationale for Bank Involvement: The Bank brings a global perspective on
what works and what does not work in social funds. The project also fits well
as part of the Bank's strategy for poverty reduction in Togo and follows up on
the recommendations of the 1996 Poverty Assessment for greater participation
and a bottom-up approach in the fight against poverty. In addition, the Bank
is one of the few institutions that has the capacity to persuade the
government of the importance of creating a truly independent decentralized
social fund.
4. Project Description. The project has three components:
Component 1 will finance small socio-economic infrastructure at the community level,
including preparatory identification steps and maintenance-related arrangements and
training. The Operating Manual identifies eligible interventions as well as norms and
criteria for selection. The basic requirement is that the proposed micro-project
addresses a priority need determined by the community.
Proposals for micro-projects may be presented by an intermediary (NGO or technical
Ministry) or directly by the beneficiaries. Requests presented to the social fund must be



the result of a participatory process whereby the whole community, and not just the elite,
took part in the discussion and agreed with the decision. All proposals must include a
proposal for the works, a maintenance plan and a plan to maximize utilization of what is
built or rehabilitated (e.g., measures increasing the access to school of poor children).
Should recurrent costs be of concern, such as in the case of construction of schools and
health centers, requests will have to include provisions for such costs (both the health
and education ministries have plans to hire additional personnel over the next few years
within IDA-financed projects).
Micro-projects will be financed as grants for a maximum of CFA 5 million per micro-
project.  Beneficiaries will be expected to contribute 15t of the total cost which may be
in cash or kind (labor, materials, etc.). Should sectoral policies require a specified
contribution, such as in the case of water, these specifications will be followed and take
precedence over social fund regulations. Intermediaries (NGOs or private firms) will
assist communities in their efforts to organize, identify and prioritize their problems,
discuss possible solutions, select a micro-project, work out realistic plans and a budget,
submit a proposal to the social fund and implement the micro-project. For their work,
they will receive a fee of up to 209 of the portion financed by the Credit and paid by the
fund (equal to 17t of the total cost of the micro-project). Local artisans and
microentrepreneurs will be contracted to carry out necessary works, hence encouraging
private sector development at the local level.
Component 2: Capacity Building for grassroots communities and civil society: Given the
limited funds available, it was decided that this component should benefit only grassroots
communities, while the intermediaries and the agency personnel will be selected based on
their existing competencies (at any rate, there are in Togo other funding sources to
strengthen the capacity of NGOs). Activities to be financed, at a maximum cost of CFA 2.5
million per activity, will be of two types:
(a) investments in human capital either for the direct benefit of a majority in the
community (e.g., functional literacy, land management) or for a few people but in the
interest of the whole community (e.g., training of health assistants and pre-school
teachers);
(b) interventions to improve organizational capacity and project implementation skills at
the community level (needs assessment, selecting priorities, preparing and managing
micro-projects).
Capacity-building interventions will be on demand from beneficiaries themselves.
Component 3 - Support to income generating micro-projects: As a number of interventions to
support financial intermediation for low-income groups are presently ongoing, this
component will rely on existing specialized institutions. Income-generating activities to
be supported will include animal husbandry, agriculture and small-scale trade, and
reimbursement will be stressed. Intermediaries (such as specialized NGOs) will be selected
applying rigorous and precise criteria. A tripartite group including the government, civil
society and the World Bank will work out the details of this component as one of the first
activities of the project.
5. Project Financing. Total ( US$m) Government 0.2, Communities 0.8 IBRD 0
IDA 5.0 Total Project Cost 6.0
6. Project Implementation. As agreed during the November 1997 pre-appraisal and appraisal
mission, the social fund will be managed by two distinctive Regional Agencies, namely the
Agence pour l'Appui aux Initiatives de Base, AGAIB-Savanes, and the Agence pour l'Appui
aux Initiatives de Base, AGAIB-Maritime, two independent agencies established respectively
-2 -



in April 1998 in Dapaong (Region des Savanes), and in May 1998 in Tsevie (Region
Maritime). These agencies have an independent legal identity that, among other things,
entitle them to negotiate their own financing agreements and to enter into contracts.
Each AGAIB will have an elected Conseil Regional (Regional Council), comprising two
representatives of NGOs; two representatives of civil society and community leaders; the
Direction Regionale du Plan, and two representatives of technical ministries. It will be
managed by a Coordinateur Regional (Regional Coordinator) and include a small staff of
technical and administrative staff.
7. Sustainability: Assessing the sustainability of the social fund structure will be an
integral part the M&E activities undertaken and is, in fact, one of the reasons for using
a LIL in this project. Measures taken to support the sustainability of micro-projects
financed by the social funds include: (i) an assessment of community commitment and
capacity, which will ensure local ownership and motivation to maintain and operate assets
created; (ii) capacity building and participatory processes to strengthen the involvement
of local communities, with special focus on maintenance arrangements (including choice of
simple maintenance technologies); (iii) community investments in micro-project costs, and
contracts on their maintenance responsibilities; (iv) prior commitment from the relevant
government agency to support recurrent expenditures (where applicable); and (v) capacity
building to provide communities with maintenance-related technical and managerial skills.
8. Lessons from experience. Social funds have proved to be an important tool for
channeling funds to the poor for self-enhancement activities (see Marc, Graham, Schacter
and Schmidt, The World Bank, 1995). The accumulated experience has shown that the
effectiveness of social funds depends on several factors such as a marked administrative
autonomy, coordination with public administration agencies, integration with sectoral
policies, flexible procurement and disbursement, a participatory approach, rigorous but
simple procedures, and political support and commitment. Accordingly, there has been an
endeavor to incorporate these elements in the design of this social fund. The experience
of the Bank's PAIDB showed that over-centralization of decision-making authority, lack of
coordination with regional offices and weak NGO capacity had negative impacts on project
activities. The present project has been structured in such a way as to avoid these
problems to the extent possible. In addition, a number of projects financed by other
donors and NGOs (e.g., the FED-VI and FED-VII projects, Aide & Action program in Kara)
show that it is unrealistic to demand community contributions exceeding 15%.    The required
beneficiary contribution has therefore been limited to 15%.
9. Program of Targeted Interventions: Yes
10. Environmental Aspects: The project will have no negative environmental
impact. It is a category C project requiring no further environmental
analysis.
11. Project Benefits. The project will contribute to the Government's poverty reduction
program by providing essential basic assets and services to poor communities. Local
communities and grassroots groups (especially women) will be empowered by learning how to
organize, analyze their needs, identify and evaluate feasible solutions, design micro-
projects to put into practice such solutions, and manage their implementation.
Intermediaries will improve both their internal functioning and their effectiveness with
their clients. In addition, the program will support decentralization and participatory
development by strengthening the capacity of NGOs, small local contractors, local
government structures and other facilitators of community development.
12. Project Risks: The chief risk is that communities will be unable or unwilling to
access project funds. Given the history of similar projects in Togo there may be high
-3 -



levels of skepticism that the regional funds can actually reach poor communities. The
regional funds have been established with a great deal of local participation both to
ensure that the design meets the needs of poor communities and to establish a transparent
process from the beginning. Precise and simple project procedures, rapid response to
funding requests, and regular contact between intermediaries and communities should reduce
these risks.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Task Team Leader
Maurizia Tovo, AFTH3
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 13, 1999.
- 4 -



