                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 26249

                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                              (IDA-31950; PPFI-Q1110)

                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF 3.8 SDR (US$5.0 MILLION)

                                     TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF TOGO

                                     FOR A

                           PILOT SOCIAL FUND PROJECT




                                   June 30, 2003




Human Development II
Africa Region

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective April 2003)

                                  Currency Unit = FCFA
                                      FCFA 609 = US$ 1
                                           US$ 1 = FCFA 0.0016

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1 -      December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGAIB    Agence d'Appui aux Initiatives de Base (Agency for Support to Grassroots Initiatives)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CDD      Community-Driven Development
FONGTO   Federation of Togolese NGOs (Fédéretion des ONG
         togolaise)
FORDES   Fonds régional de développement économique et social
GOT      Government of Togo
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IDA      International Development Agency
IEC      Information, Education and Communication
INTIU    World Bank's Department of Institutional Integrity,
         Investigations Unit
LIL      Learning and Innovation Loan
LOI      Letter of Invitation
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS      Management Information System
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
OM       Operating Manual
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PAIDB    Grassroots Initiative Project (Projet d'appui aux initiatives
         de développement de base)
PCD      Project Concept Documents
PNLP     National Program to Fight Poverty (Programme national de
         lutte contre la pauvreté)
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
SOE      Statement of Expenditures
TOR      Terms of Reference
UNDP     United Nations Development Program



                                Vice President:        Callisto E. Madavo
                             Country Director:         Antoinette M. Sayeh
                               Sector Manager:         Alexandre V. Abrantes
                                Task Manager:          Evelyn Awittor

                                            TOGO
                                        SOCIAL FUND


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
Annex 8: English summar of Borrower's contribution                               27

Project ID: P052263                                                      Project Name: SOCIAL FUND
Team Leader: Evelyn Awittor                                              TL Unit: AFTH2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 30, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: SOCIAL FUND                                              L/C/TF Number: IDA-31950; PPFI-Q1110
   Country/Department: TOGO                                                               Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (64%); Other social services (20%); Health (8%);
                            Roads and highways (8%)
                  Theme: Civic engagement, participation and community driven development
                            (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Social risk reduction (P);
                            Other social protection and risk management (P); Gender (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    10/15/1997                                        Effective: 08/03/1999              07/02/1999
   Appraisal:    11/21/1997                                            MTR:                           12/07/2000
    Approval:    04/14/1999                                         Closing: 12/30/2001               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF TOGO/AGAIB
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Antoinette M. Sayeh                            Theodore Ahlers
Sector Manager:                 Alexandre V. Abrantes                          Helena Ribe
Team Leader at ICR:             Eileen Murray                                  Maurizia Tovo
ICR Primary Author:             Evelyn Awittor


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:U

                     Sustainability:UN

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:U


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Country Context

Togo is one of the least developed countries. At the time of project appraisal in 1997, its GNP per capita
was US$330, compared with US$500 for Sub-Saharan Africa. Poor households and communities were
faced with a variety of constraints which included a lack of access to government services, inadequate
water supply and sanitation facilities, limited access to markets and employment opportunities, land
shortages and degradation, as well as unequal access to productive resources. In addition,
community-based development was constrained by a number of factors including a lack of capacity to
design and implement microprojects at the grassroots level. In response to the high levels of poverty and
economic deterioration, the Government of Togo prepared a National Program to Fight Poverty (PNLP) in
1995. At the same time, efforts were being made in the country to decentralize power to local authorities.
Following an extensive in-country dialogue on poverty, a recommendation was made to establish regional
social funds. With no experience of social funds in Togo, the project was designed as a Learning and
Innovation Loan (LIL).

Original Objective

The development objective of the project, as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) was to reduce
poverty by establishing two regional social funds to test the feasibility of a decentralized network of social
funds.

The key performance indicators identified were as follows:
l Regional social funds able to carry out their program effectively
l Respecting processing deadlines as stated in the Operating Manual
l Disbursing the entire credit in three years.


Assessment of Objectives:

The objectives of the project were clear and reflected the priorities of the government for poverty reduction
and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). Poverty reduction was to be achieved through: (i)
employment creation and revenue distribution to benefit the rural and urban poor; (ii) improvement of
social services for the poor; and (iii) accompanying measures with components on population dynamics,
women's status, and social mobilization. The objectives were also consistent with the CAS objective 5
which seeks to develop human resources and sharpen the poverty focus of IDA's assistance. It also sought
to promote CAS objective 2 which aimed at restoring the provision of basic health, education, and urban
services. The project objective was realistic in that it was designed to test the feasibility of regional
autonomous social funds while also supporting micro-projects for the needed social services at the
community level.

3.2 Revised Objective:
No components were revised.




                                                       - 2 -

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of four components: (a) small socioeconomic infrastructure at the community level -
US$2,400,000; (b) capacity-building for grassroots communities and civil society - US$1,200,000; (c)
support to income-generating micro-projects - US$1,100,000; and (d) institutional arrangements -
US$1,300,000.

Small Socioeconomic Infrastructure at the Community Level (US$2.4 million):

This component was to finance small socioeconomic infrastructure at the community level, including
preparatory identification steps and maintenance-related arrangements and training. The basic requirement
for selection of a micro-project was that it address a priority need identified by the community. Possible
interventions included: rehabilitation, extension, or construction of primary schools; rehabilitation,
extension, or construction of health centers and dispensaries; installation of water points, reservoirs and
sanitation services; rehabilitation or repair of feeder roads, small bridges, and other basic transport
infrastructure; small socioeconomic infrastructure for community use, such as markets and storage
facilities.

Proposals for micro-projects were to be presented by an intermediary (NGO or technical ministry) or
directly by the communities themselves with participation of both men and women in the community. The
requests were to include a proposal for works, a maintenance plan and a plan to maximize utilization of
what is built or rehabilitated (e.g., measures to increase the access of poor children to school).

Close collaboration with sectoral ministries was an integral part of this component both to ensure that
recurrent costs are covered and that interventions financed by the social funds are consistent with sectoral
and regional policies. Representation of relevant ministries on regional assemblies, boards of directors and
regional screening committees were to encourage coordination and consistency. Additionally, the regional
directorates were to assist the fund in defining technical specifications and maintenance plans acceptable to
the relevant ministries, inform the agencies of relevant policy decisions in their sector, help assess the
viability of proposed micro-projects (if necessary), and act as liaison between the social fund and other
actors in the sector to maximize coordination. No micro-project was to be financed in the absence of a
written approval by the appropriate technical ministry and of clear and concrete plans to cover recurrent
costs and maintenance.

Micro-projects were to be financed as grants for a maximum of US$8,000 (CFAF 5 million per
micro-project). Beneficiary contributions were set at a minimum of 15 percent of the total cost which may
be in cash or kind (labor, materials, etc).

Capacity-building for Grassroots Communities and Civil Society (US$1.2 million):

This component was to benefit only grassroots communities given the limited funds available.
Intermediaries and agency personnel were to be selected based on their existing competences. Activities to
be financed under this component were of two types: (i) investments in human capital either for the direct
benefit of a majority in the community (e.g., functional literacy, land management) or a few people but in
the interest of the entire community (e.g., training of health assistants, preschool teachers, and traditional
birth attendants); (ii) interventions to improve organizational capacity and project implementation skills at
the community level (needs assessment, selecting priorities, preparing and managing micro-projects).
Capacity-building activities could be on demand from the beneficiaries themselves.



                                                      - 3 -

Support to income-generating Microprojects (US$1.1 million):

From the initial stages of project preparation a debate was carried out on the possibility of adding a
micro-credit component. The Government of Togo (GOT) was keen on having beneficiaries of the project
earn income in addition to the provision of community infrastructure. The Bank team thought this could be
achieved through a component on microfinance. As a number of initiatives in support of income-generating
activities were ongoing in Togo at the time of project preparation, the Bank team deemed it necessary to
wait for the results and experiences of these to feed into the detailed definition of the component. One of
these key initiatives was a project called "Microstart" which was being supported through financing from
the United Nations Development Program (UNDP). The Pilot Social Fund was to complement this project.
It was to support such activities as animal husbandry, agriculture, and small-scale trade. The details were
to be worked out as one of the first activities of the project by a tripartite group including government, civil
society, and the World Bank. Given this context, the Bank team had identified as a risk the possibility of
disagreements with the government as to the precise content of this component and/or to its timing.

Institutional Arrangements (US$1.3 million):

In each of the two regions selected for the project an independent nonprofit agency was to be created: the
Agence d'Appui aux Initiatives de Base (Agency for Support to Grassroots Initiatives) AGAIB-Region
Savanes and AGAIB-Region Maritime. The agencies were to be governed by a general assembly as the
highest decision-making body, and a Board of Directors as the administrative oversight body. A small
national-level coordinating agency (Unité de coordination nationale) based in Lomé was created to have
responsibility for coordinating regional activities, liaising with the central government, and assisting the
regional agencies (e.g., with IEC and public relations). The agencies were to focus on promotion, screening,
financing and overall Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) of activities, while implementation was to be
contracted out either to intermediaries (NGOs and private firms), or where appropriate, directly to
community groups.

3.4 Revised Components:
No components were revised during project implementation.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Overall, quality at entry is deemed satisfactory, although in retrospect the inclusion of the unprepared
microfinance component was ill-conceived.

(a) Project concept, objectives, and approach. The project responded to the needs of the country for
poverty reduction. Being a pilot project, it was designed to test certain hypotheses. The elements included:
(i) the recognition that the poorest communities in Togo need an institution that would be able to finance
their small projects to address their basic needs in a quick manner, without political, religious or tribal
considerations; (ii) the need for an instrument that is autonomous and closer to the people in order to
address poverty at the community level because the government is unable to respond to the needs of the
poorest communities; (iii) the opportunity to establish an organization at the regional level that can manage
public resources in a transparent and efficient manner following the attempted GOT decentralization
process in 1998; (iv) the potential harnessing and increasing of the strong social capital in the rural
communities of the country using a community demand-driven approach with an emphasis on
capacity-building. The instrument chosen to test this hypothesis was the AGAIB. An in-country dialogue
recommended the establishment of regional social funds. Given that the proposed structure of the social
fund was new in Togo, it was decided to test the approach using a LIL. Lessons learned from accumulated



                                                       - 4 -

experience in the Bank and internationally on social funds, as well as on previous projects such as the
Grassroots Initiatives Development Project (PAIDB), were used in the design of the project. The key
lessons include:

l designing the project as a social fund that has proven to be an important tool for channeling funds to
    the poor for self-enhancement activities;
l emphasizing the importance of administrative autonomy combined with coordination with public
    administration agencies, and integration with sectoral policies;
l simplifying procedures while ensuring rigor and transparency;
l making provision for the use of flexible procurement and disbursement arrangements;
l participatory approach to promote project ownership and sustainability;
l ensuring political support and commitment.


(b) Technical and economic analysis. Manuals and criteria to guide micro-project selection and
sustainability were sound and in place, with the exception of income-generating micro-projects. While the
Bank's position of caution towards including microfinance activities pushed by the government helped
control the risk that an unsound strategy would be adopted, the absence of an acceptable strategy should
have been a signal not to include microfinance rather than to delay design for the implementation period.
The path chosen left the door open to microfinance, but the stop and start implementation history made it
difficult to properly prepare and execute within the time frame of the project.

(c) Social and stakeholder aspects. The project was designed after an intensive in-country participatory
dialogue on poverty with participation from government agencies, NGOs, and the Bank. The project was to
target the most vulnerable groups, particularly women.

(d) Risks. The main risks identified were related to unwillingness of poor communities to participate,
deterioration of the political stability, complicated procedures or cultural barriers making it difficult for
communities to access funds, communities and actors not feeling the need for increased capacity,
government not willing to support truly autonomous regional social funds, and insufficient capacity to staff
the regional offices. Most of the identifiable risks were well controlled for, particularly in terms of attention
to institutional design (autonomy, civil society participation on the Board) and community-driven aspects.

Political risks and their effect on economic stability proved to be the most important risks. At the time of
project preparation, Togo's economy was on the way to recovery with an average growth rate of eight
percent per year since 1994. However, the 1998 elections led to changes in government structure and
composition. The departure of the Prime Minister who requested the project and played the role of its
champion, was a major blow. Furthermore, tensions increased in the country with the elections. All of these
factors led to deterioration in the political and economic situation. Political risks were largely controlled for
in the general approach of direct social mobilization and financing of communities combined with
transparent and autonomous institutional structures. However, the economic deterioration that led to the
accumulation of arrears and the suspension of Bank activities in Togo was not foreseen, and in the end
doomed the project.

(e) Readiness for implementation. Two autonomous regional agencies were created for project
implementation and staff were hired before project effectiveness. A national-level coordinating unit was
also formed. With the exception of the microfinance component, the project was ready for implementation.




                                                      - 5 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project was designed as a LIL to be implemented over three years and was extended for a fourth year.
Because of successive disruptions in implementation due to country suspensions, actual implementation
time was only 19 months (see Table 1). This ICR is therefore that of an aborted experiment, and the project
is thus rated unsatisfactory because, in the end, it was only able to finance and implement a limited number
of the original microprojects envisioned.

Table 1: Implementation Timeline
                   Events                                  Dates                                Remarks
    Approval of project data                April 14, 1999
    Signing of DCA                          May 3, 1999
    Signing of Project Agreements           May 28, 1999
    Project effectiveness                   July 2, 1999
    First implementation period             July 1999 - November 2000              Sensitization campaign done in all
                                                                                   cantons after which micro-project
                                                                                   proposal submission began.
    First suspension                        November 2000 - August 2001            During this period there was
                                                                                   minimal activity.
    Second implementation period            August - December 2001                 Project activities resumed. This
                                                                                   was also the period of
                                                                                   investigations into allegations of
                                                                                   corruption in AGAIB-Région
                                                                                   Maritime, resulting in further slow
                                                                                   down of activities in that region.
    Extension of closing date               December 27, 2001                      Extension to December 31, 2002
    Second suspension                       January 1 ­ December 2002              There were no disbursements.
                                                                                   Only activities requiring very little
                                                                                   funds were carried out during this
                                                                                   period.
    Project closing                         December 31, 2002

    While the suspensions caused the failure to fully meet project objectives, it is worth pointing out that
    over the 19 months the project was operational, performance was nonetheless satisfactory. The
    following was the outcome over this period:
l The AGAIBs chosen as the instrument to test the hypothesis proved to be the right choice. They were
    fully decentralized to the regional level, autonomous, and reached 241 communities where they worked
    with the existing social capital in the form of village committees as well as beneficiaries in a
    community-driven development (CDD) approach.
l The social funds provided socially and economically important infrastructure and services with positive
    impact on living conditions.
l The completed projects had very clear strategies for maintenance.
l The GOT respected the autonomy of the AGAIBs (signed the credit with the World Bank, nominated
    government staff to be members of the Board of Directors, agreed to the dismissal of two employees
    that were alleged to be involved in irregular practices, and disbursed some 50 percent of the



                                                      - 6 -

    counterpart funds agreed).
l The project supported the first attempts to decentralize service delivery.
l Overall, about 30 NGOs participated in project implementation.


Key Performance Indicators: The key performance indicators outlined in Schedule 4 of the Development
Credit Agreement included:

Table 2: Key Performance Indicators
                      Indicator                                                  Result
 Timely disbursement of counterpart funds.               Disbursement of counterpart funds was often late
                                                         although about 50 percent was released.
 Ninety percent of dossiers processed within the         Ninety to 96 percent of micro-project requests
 period specified in the Operating Manual.               processed in required time.
 Monitoring and evaluation system established and        Delayed but eventually implemented.
 data systematically collected on all micro-projects.
 Monthly monitoring and evaluation report prepared       Not consistently reported.
 and disseminated to government, project staff, and
 concerned donors.
 Eighty percent of social infrastructure rehabilitated   The beneficiary assessment indicated that all the
 or built, such as primary schools and dispensaries,     completed infrastructure had personnel and
 has personnel and materials.                            materials and were functioning.
 Seventy percent of the micro infrastructure             There was evidence from the beneficiary assessment
 maintenance plans are being followed one year after that the projects that were completed in both regions
 the infrastructure was completed.                       in 2000 were being maintained, and from the 2002
                                                         annual report from the Savanes Region, they were
                                                         still being maintained a year later.

Innovative features of the project: There were some innovative features of the project that need to be
underscored. These included:
l The regional social fund approach meant to support the first attempts to decentralize.
l Requirements to include maintenance plans in the micro-project proposals from the communities.
l HIV/AIDS education was included as part of the subprojects.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Outputs by Components:

(a)      Small Socioeconomic infrastructure at the community level: US$550,000
In spite of the suspensions, a number of socially and economically important infrastructure was
constructed/rehabilitated. Out of an agreed target of 600 microprojects, 185 were approved by project
closing. Out of this number 56 were completed (far less than the target of 600), 51 were left uncompleted
and 81 did not start. Most microprojects were for schools infrastructure, but they also covered health
centers and dispensaries, markets and storage facilities, training centers, safe water wells, and latrines.




                                                     - 7 -

Table 3: Key performance indicators for Component 1.
      Performance Indicator                    Original Target                       Final Result
 No. of micro-projects approved;                     600                                  185
 No. of micro-projects completed;                    600                                  56
 No. of socioeconomic                             420 (70%)                            45 (80%)
 infrastructure micro-projects
 correctly maintained;
 No. of new structures being used;                480 (80%)                           56 (100%)

Table 4: Socioeconomic Infrastructure by Type
AGAIB - MARITIME
      Infrastructure           Completed Projects         Projects in Progress               Total
Schools                                 24                          13                        37
Health                                   2                           1                         3
Centers/Dispensaries
Latrines                                 6                           7                        13
Markets/Storage Facilities               1                           7                         8
Training Centers                         0                           0                         0
Water Wells                              0                           0                         0
AGAIB - SAVANES
Schools                                 13                          21                        34
Health                                   2                           2                         4
Centers/Dispensaries
Markets/Storage Facilities               3                           0                         3
Training Centers                         2                           0                         2
Water Wells                              2                           0                         2
Latrines                                 1                           0                         1
Total                                   23                          23                        46
Grand Total                             56                          51                        107

Data on the geographical distribution and coverage of micro-projects show that all districts in the Maritime
Region and two-thirds of districts in the Savanes Region benefited from micro-projects. In the Maritime
Region, out of 1,432 villages, a total of 92 had approved micro-projects; while in the Savanes Region, 117
out of 746 villages had approved micro-projects. There was no explicit poverty targeting mechanism or
map used to orient resources, beyond the focus on the Savanes Region, the poorest in the country.

Given the reduced number of microprojects actually implemented, approximately 35,000 people benefited
from the project. Women and girls accounted for a significant portion, and the social fund was successful
in tracking beneficiaries' gender.

Beneficiary assessments confirmed that the socioeconomic infrastructure built through the project had a
positive impact on people's lives. In the Savanes Region, enrollment in schools assisted by the social fund
increased from 2,171 to 2,672, or 22 percent. In the Maritime Region, there was a 15 to 42 percent
increase in total enrollment with the percentage increase for girls being between 13 and 19 percent. In
addition, in some communities where grain storage facilities were constructed, farmers indicated that their
profits increased by as much as 100 percent due to a larger storage capacity, coupled with the fact that
their agricultural products were kept dry and therefore did not go bad. Water collection, which is normally



                                                     - 8 -

an activity carried out by women and girls, became less tedious as collection times dropped from an
average of one hour to 20 minutes with the construction of wells. Attendance at some rehabilitated and
improved health posts increased by 60 percent. The beneficiary assessment also indicated a general
satisfaction of the communities with the completed micro-projects. In addition, the communities felt
empowered. Table 5 below provides information on impact of the various types of micro-projects as
captured in the beneficiary assessment.

Table 5: Impact by Type of Project
                    Type of Project                                             Impact
 Rehabilitation of school buildings                     Improvement in the work of the pupils and the
                                                        teachers;
                                                        Working environment has become more healthy,
                                                        secured and adequate;
                                                        Raising some of the schools to examination centers;
                                                        Pupils stay in the classrooms even in bad weather
                                                        (previously the children had to leave the school for
                                                        home at the first sign of rain).
 Health Centers                                         Improved physical access to health care.
 Construction of markets and storage facilities         Reduction in drudgery of collecting thatch for
                                                        roofing of stalls and sheds for storage.
 Construction of water wells                            Reduction in the time it took to collect water from
                                                        30-60 minutes to an average of 5-20 minutes
                                                        walking.
 Construction of latrines                               Improved living environment; no more open
                                                        defecation.

(b)      Capacity-building for Grassroots Communities and Civil Society: US$90,000
Regarding this component, 65 out of the target of 300 subprojects were approved. Out of this, 36 were
completed, 6 were not completed, and 23 did not start. The completed subprojects covered literacy,
business management, and bookkeeping, as well as training of community health agents and traditional
birth attendants. The second element of the capacity-building component--interventions to improve
organizational capacity and project implementation skills at the community level--was less successful.
Rather than stand-alone micro-projects not linked to any specific activities, the mid-term review
recommended that this element should be implemented as part of the infrastructure micro-project to have
greater relevance and impact. This recommendation was not implemented due to the suspension.

Table 6: Key performance indicators for Component 2
   Key Performance Indicator                  Original Target                        Final Results
No. of communities/organizations                    300                                    36
with improved capacity and self
reliance
No. of training activities                          300                                    36
implemented

Although the project did not set out to measure outcome, having focused more on process and output
indicators, from the beneficiary assessment target groups indicated that they had gained skills in accounting
and bookkeeping, increased knowledge on importance of breast-feeding, and that they are better able to
participate in community life. Furthermore, the training of traditional birth attendants had made deliveries



                                                    - 9 -

safer. Women stated that they had become more conversant with their rights. They had also gained more
knowledge in infant feeding as well as nutrition. All beneficiary groups of capacity-building microprojects
received education on HIV/AIDS.

Table 7: Impact by Type of Project
                    Type of Project                                             Impact
 Training in communication/animation for                  Increased organizational capacity of members of
 management of household/domestic waste                   beneficiary groups;
                                                          Improvement in the competency of members of the
 Training on community life and the rights of women groups in matters of community life;
                                                          Better knowledge of women's rights;
                                                          Acquisition of mobilization capacity.
 Training of traditional birth attendants, health         Increased safe deliveries.
 agents, and village health committees
 Training of women:                                       Knowledge of different foods and their constituents;
 -       on health and nutrition and feeding practices    Improved knowledge on value and limitations of
 -       in production of flour for infant food           traditional medicine;
 -      on HIV/AIDS                                       Importance of breast feeding;
                                                          Improved women's personal hygiene;
                                                          Acquisition of new culinary skills;
                                                          Improved knowledge of HIV/AIDS.

(c)      Support to Income-generating Micro-projects: US$30,000
There were no performance indicators for this component.
Although the Bank controlled the risks of implementing a poorly designed microfinance strategy of a
government that wanted to move in that area without much experience, in the end, the project was not able
to develop or implement an effective component. Because of the disruptions in implementation, and its not
having been designed at the outset, the results of this component were minimal. In all, seven savings and
loans associations were eventually selected and assisted by SAFECO, a private consulting firm, to prepare
a proposal aimed at strengthening these associations. This proposal, which included purchase of
motorcycles, air-conditioners, computers, etc., was submitted to the social funds and then to the Bank three
months prior to the original project closing date for review. The Bank team reviewed the proposal and
suggested that less costly and more sustainable alternatives be explored, such as basic training in
accounting, bookkeeping, account management, etc., for staff of these associations to enable them to do
their job more efficiently. Despite this situation, some impact was registered in the collaboration between
the AGAIB, the savings and loans associations, and some intermediaries. In the AGAIB-Région Savanes,
although this was varied, the most remarkable impact was the increase in the number of clients and the
zones of activities. For example, according to the 2002 annual report of activities, TIMPAC--a savings and
loans association--increased its activities in the Gando and Oti Préfecture and increased its clientele from
786 groups in 2000 to 1,286 in 2001; and membership from 7,031 to 10,373 during the same period in
anticipation of further support from the social fund.

(d)      Institutional Arrangement: US$610,000
The main objective was met. The AGAIBs were well established and strengthened to manage funds and
implement projects. The decentralized social fund model was effective in reaching communities with
important benefits. NGOs were actively involved as intermediaries and civil society was engaged.
Coordination with line ministries was effective.




                                                      - 10 -

Institutional Structure: There were some difficulties with the decentralized structure, exacerbated by the
fact that the country itself did not succeed in implementing its decentralization strategy. There were clear
tensions between the national coordinating unit and the regional agencies. The national level considered the
functional relationship as a hierarchical one, rather than the more limited coordination role envisioned for
the central level.

Operating Cost: Given that the project did not fund as many micro-projects as originally intended, the
operating cost of the project was very high--51 percent of the total cost of IDA disbursement against an
estimated 22 percent at appraisal. The initial investment costs used to establish the new decentralized
institutions could not be amortized over a full portfolio of investments. With the information available from
the previous years and extrapolating these for 2001-02, one can estimate that about US$1.1 million would
have been spent on operating costs had the portfolio been implemented. This would have constituted about
20 percent of the credit proceeds which is close to the appraisal estimate.

Financial Management Problems in the AGAIB Maritime Office: A report on accounting and financial
management showed many deficiencies in the AGAIB-Maritime's project accounting procedures. Three
particular issues were of concern. These included price quotations not being systematically sought for local
purchases; checks not being systematically filled out prior to being signed by the regional coordinator and
the accountant; and the accountant keeping a large sum of cash in his possession for many months to pay
for operating costs. These were all addressed. Nonetheless, on the basis of this it was decided not to extend
the accountant's contract when it expired.

In addition, allegations of kickbacks and corrupt practices were made against the Regional Director of
AGAIB-Région Maritime. While the investigation instituted by the World Bank's Department of
Institutional Integrity, Investigations Unit (INTIU) did not find sufficient evidence that payments were
received from project contractors, there was sufficient evidence of a conflict of interest in violation of
paragraph 1.9 of the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers.
The staff members implicated were dismissed from the project and the Togolese authorities referred the
matter to the judicial system of the country. It has to be noted that after its referral to the judicial
authorities, no further steps appear to have been taken. This situation had a negative impact on project
implementation as project activities stalled in the region during the investigation.

Following the completion of the investigations a detailed assessment was done of the financial management
system and weaknesses were addressed.

Procurement: Community participation was to form the bulk of the project procurement, given the nature
of the project and its purpose of encouraging community self-determination. Communities, with technical
assistance from NGOs, were to implement subprojects, purchasing both services of skilled labor and goods
or equipment through methods outlined in the Operating Manual (OM) and described in the contract
agreements signed with communities. The maximum amount that could be spent on a subproject was set at
CFAF 5 million (US$8,000). This ceiling was set in a participatory manner during project preparation with
a view to funding many micro-projects, reaching as many communities and beneficiaries as possible, and
allowing the AGAIBs and the communities to gain more experience. However, it seemed this ceiling
hampered basic infrastructure building or rehabilitation. The procurement process evolved during
implementation and it was observed that different approaches were used by the two agencies based on
regional conditions of availability of contractors. The AGAIB-Région Savanes used more direct contracting
as there were fewer contractors available in that region than in the Maritime Region. As a result of some of
the weaknesses that were identified in procurement, recommendations were made during the mid-term
review to ensure that the process became more transparent. This became more important after the


                                                      - 11 -

corruption allegations in the Maritime Region.

Monitoring and Evaluation: Given that this project was a LIL, the M&E system was recognized as a
critical part of the project and defined as follows in the PAD:
l Monitoring to be an integral part of each micro-project implementation process, and disbursement of
     trenches for each micro-project was to be contingent on performance monitoring by NGOs and project
     staff.
l M&E mechanisms were to be built into the information system, with a computer software especially
     designed for social funds based on the philosophy that data from this system could be accessible by all
     stakeholders.
l Data on key indicators (in terms of both process and outputs) were to be generated monthly and
     reviewed by project staff and Bank staff as described in the Operating Manual.
l Regularly scheduled supervision missions were to provide close monitoring.
l In-depth annual reviews and baseline studies were also to be carried out. Progress reports on project
     implementation and outcomes were to be prepared twice a year.

The information system with computerized software specifically designed for social funds was not put in
place early enough to generate data to be made accessible to all stakeholders. In 2001, a consultant was
hired to work with the project team to put this in place. The system that was finally installed was too
complicated and by the time this situation was rectified, the second suspension had taken place. There was
only one beneficiary assessment carried out in 2000 and this provided some process, outcome, and impact
data for evaluation of the achievement of the project. Given that the project was designed as a LIL, it
should have had a stronger M&E system and attention should have been placed on getting it up and running
early on.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Impact on the AGAIBs: The AGAIBs have become important institutions in the national strategy for
poverty reduction. They have demonstrated that (a) they can reach poor communities and (b) that they have
enough capacity and experience to give support to other donors and projects. It should also be noted that
based on their capacity, the establishment of three more regional agencies had started, and they have begun
discussions with other donors (i.e., AfDB, EU) to implement their projects. It has been suggested to use the
AGAIBs for the implementation of the proposed IDA HIV/AIDS Emergency Project (under preparation but
also halted due to the non-accrual status of the country), as well as the Emergency Program for Poverty
Reduction that is under discussion among the development partners in the country. They have also gained
considerable experience working with communities and proving the importance of a community-driven
approach in Togo. Despite suspensions and the end of the project, the institutions continue, albeit with
limited funding dependent on the Treasury.

Impact on private small-scale entrepreneurs and contractors: Small-scale entrepreneurs, contractors,
and construction workers were strengthened by the contracts with the communities financed by the social
fund. The negative side is that during the second suspension period, as mentioned earlier, under pressure
from beneficiary communities, some contractors had to pre-finance the works on some of the uncompleted
subprojects. This led to the indebtedness of the AGAIBs to these contractors some of whom had to borrow



                                                      - 12 -

from the commercial banks for this purpose.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Not applicable

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Factors under government control were primarily responsible for derailing the project's outcome. The 1998
elections saw a dramatic change in the political environment following project preparation. By the start of
project implementation the political and economic context had changed and was characterized by political
uncertainty and economic downturn. The country experienced a deep economic crisis which impeded the
government's ability to make adequate counterpart contributions leading to delays in project
implementation. Its inability make IDA repayments led to several suspensions which halted disbursements
to the project. This was the primary reason only 50 percent of the counterpart funds were disbursed.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementing agency performed well in testing participatory processes, coordinating with line
ministries, and paying attention to the provisions of the Operating Manual. Their performance was,
however, weak on project management in the beginning as some of the AGAIB personnel were found not to
be performing well. Consequently, a personnel review had to be undertaken and staff changed. Also, the
finding of conflicts of interest in consultant contracts in one of the AGAIB's caused a significant
deceleration of implementation during the period when investigations were being carried out. In addition,
the conflicts between the central and regional levels was never fully overcome.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total cost of the project as stated in the PAD was estimated at US$6.0 million which comprised the
following: IDA - US$5.0 million, GOT - US$200,000, and communities US$800,000. In the course of
project implementation these figures were reduced. By project close on December 31, 2002, the government
had disbursed about US$107,000 (about 50 percent of the original amount) while IDA disbursed a total of
US$1.3 million (25 percent of the original amount). Community contributions were significant, averaging
20 percent of microproject costs. If exemptions from taxes and duties are taken into account, the
government contribution would increase. However, the releases were uneven and most often very late. A
total of US$3.7 million was cancelled from the credit.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is examined from two angles­sustainability of the social fund institutions and sustainability
of microprojects benefits:
A.       The institutional sustainability of the AGAIBs is rated as unlikely. On the positive side, the
community-driven development approach first piloted by the AGAIBs has gained credibility in the country
However, the continuity of the institutions themselves is in question. While they were legally autonomous,
they were fully dependent on the project for their activities, financing, and operating costs. With
disbursements suspended, their activities have been reduced to the barest minimum, even if they do
continue to operate. The government budget has been allocated to continue operations, but release of funds
is never guaranteed particularly given macroeconomic constraints. With donor financing scarce in Togo,
the ability to implement a significant portfolio of microprojects is unlikely.




                                                      - 13 -

B.      Sustainability of completed microprojects is, however, rated likely. The original project design
included the following elements of sustainability of the sub-projects:
l Coordination with line ministries and agencies and a definition of their role in operating and
    maintaining the sub-projects together with the communities;
l Beneficiary participation in all phases of the project including contributions in cash or kind;
l Inclusion of evidence of operating cost and maintenance plan in subproject approval criteria;
l Capacity-building on subproject use and maintenance for communities through formation of user
    committees and collection of user fees.

The evidence on sustainability is quite positive. The line ministries participated fully in the activities of the
Board of Directors and the subproject approval committees, as well as signed off on all relevant
sub-projects before they were financed by the social funds. Some of them also participated in relevant
training programs. Examples were the participation of the Ministry of Health in the training of health
agents and traditional birth attendants and subsequently supervising them. Furthermore, community
contributions were as high as 20 percent toward the microprojects and this, in addition to participation in
proposal preparation and implementation, led to ownership of subprojects. Evidence from the beneficiary
assessment indicated that communities also contributed toward management and sustainability of
completed sub-projects by putting in place basic strategies such as actively functioning user committees
and fee collection mechanisms.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
There is no follow-up project due to Togo's current non-accrual status.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance is rated satisfactory for the following reasons:
l Teams with relevant skills were chosen.
l The appropriate instrument - LIL - was chosen to test the approach.
l As a LIL, the project was prepared in a short period of time. The only delay was caused by the
    government's inability to decide on the pilot regions expeditiously.
l The Bank encouraged participation of all stakeholders in preparatory activities.
l The Bank brought to bear international experience in social funds, to the benefit of the Togolese.
However, the Bank took a great risk in including the income-generating component particularly after
having identified it as a potential controversial issue with government and given that it was not fully
prepared with no clarity as to what exactly was to be done.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance in project supervision is rated satisfactory for the following reasons:
l Regular supervision missions were conducted throughout the life of the project, even during the
    suspension period when only limited activities were carried out; progress was reported adequately and
    implementation problems identified early and addressed proactively.
l The resources and skills mix were also adequate. Missions consisted of teams with a sufficient mix in
    terms of quantity and quality for the supervision of the various components.
l There was frequent turnover in implementation teams, however there is no evidence that this had a
    negative impact on the supervision of the project as the Country Office staff were fully involved and
    ensured continuity.
l Consultants were also hired to undertake short-term tasks to address specific aspects of the project e.g.,
    hiring a M&E specialist to assist with establishing the computerized monitoring and evaluation system



                                                      - 14 -

    for the project.
l The Bank was very supportive of the project and attempted to address all issues arising within the
    project promptly and with little disruption. An example is when the corruption allegations surfaced
    against some project implementation personnel in the AGAIB-Région Maritime office. The Bank team
    referred the matter to the World Bank Group's Department of Institutional Integrity, Investigations
    Unit which carried out an investigation and the personnel implicated were relieved of their functions
    ensuring that due process was followed.
l The Bank team also worked closely with the AGAIBs to explore alternative sources of financing during
    the suspension period.
l The Bank was flexible in addressing difficulties that were identified and which had the potential of
    negatively affecting project implementation.
l Feedback on Bank performance from the implementing agencies was positive, although AGAIB-Région
    Savanes staff expressed their concern of not having benefited from at least one visit from the last TTL.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in preparation is assessed as satisfactory. The reasons include:
l There was close cooperation between the government and the Bank, while the Ministry of Planning and
    Economic Development provided the leadership and vision needed to ensure that the project responded
    to the needs of the poor people of the country as identified in the government's National Program to
    Fight Poverty.
l Relevant agencies and the major stakeholders also participated in the preparation of the project.
l The government agreed to establish autonomous institutions (AGAIBs) over which it did not have
    much control.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance is rated unsatisfactory for the following reasons:
l The fiscal situation of the country (which led to the suspension) had negative consequences for the
    project and ultimately caused the project to be only partially implemented.
l While it was committed to the project and fulfilled most of the credit conditions, it did not comply with
    two legal covenants: (a) the requirement of the government to deposit an initial amount of CFAF
    47,287,000 into the project account; and (b) the quarterly replenishment or whenever the balance
    became less than the equivalent of CFAF 11,820,000. The initial contribution deposited into the
    project account was less than agreed and the disbursements were not systematic according to the agreed
    schedule, but were often very late.
l The government however respected the autonomy of the AGAIBs and did not interfere in their
    operations.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the AGAIBs is rated satisfactory for the following reasons:
l All staff were hired on time for project implementation to begin.
l The Operating Manuals were followed in the execution of the project keeping to the stipulated delays of
    two weeks to respond to a request from the communities.
l On the whole, the accounting and financial management of the project was found to be adequate. While
    some weaknesses were found in the system particularly in the AGAIB-Région Maritime, efforts were
    made to address them.



                                                    - 15 -

l During the suspension period the AGAIBs continued to provide follow-on support to completed and
    uncompleted subprojects. AGAIB-Région Savanes was exemplary in this regard.
l The AGAIBs should have been more proactive in stimulating demand from the more remote
    communities. However, the usual expansion path for a social fund is that the more remote communities
    begin to participate in demanding projects a little later. The suspension impeded this natural
    progression. Supervision by the AGAIB staff was also limited and it would have helped greatly to have
    the intermediaries or consultants undertake supervision on behalf of the project. There was no evidence
    that this negatively affected the performance of the agencies nor the implementation of the subprojects.
l The performance of AGAIB-Région Maritime is diminished by the documentation of conflict of interest
    charges against some members of its staff. This led to difficulties for project implementation in that
    region and raised accountability issues. This does not however, reduce the overall performance rating
    of the AGAIBs as implementing agencies.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower was assessed as unsatisfactory given the seriousness of the
problems associated with the country's accumulation of arrears to IDA that led to the doom of the project.

8. Lessons Learned

Lessons for project preparation:

l Components that cannot be prepared fully should not be included in a project, or at the very least
    should be considered highly risky with mitigation measures put into place. The component on
    microfinance suffered more than the others because its details were not defined, until project
    implementation, and then with significant difficulty.
l Broader political support is paramount in a country with such high political tensions and where
    political fortunes are made and lost very quickly. Hence, depending on a particular champion is
    that much riskier. In this case the team depended on the support of the Prime Minister (who actually
   requested the project). His departure from the government led to diminished political support for the
   project.
l The participatory approach involving all stakeholders from the beginning helps to enhance
   ownership and provides a fair chance of well-implemented and maintained microprojects. This
    project involved numerous stakeholders from preparation through to implementation which helped
    build ownership and ensured that projects were well implemented.
l Operating Manuals for projects of this kind should be simple and flexible instead of being very
    detailed and prescriptive. The OM for this project had these qualities and it enabled adaptation by the
    regional social funds according to the conditions prevailing in their regions.
l It is important for LILs to: (a) ensure that measurable indicators are established from the
    beginning of project; (b) design and implement a monitoring and evaluation system early; and (c)
    ensure that staff are trained in data collection procedures. Even at project closing, work on the
    monitoring and evaluation system was still ongoing.

Lessons for project implementation:

l A lesson learned is that in CDD-type projects the Bank should not precede government's efforts
    in the area of decentralization. In this case the government could not implement its own
    decentralization policy during the life of the project and yet the approach of this project was to
    establish decentralized regional social funds that worked through NGOs or directly with communities
    to deliver services. Additionally, the government did not fully exercise its oversight responsibility which



                                                     - 16 -

    led to tensions between the implementing agencies and the government central institutions.
l Decentralized social funds are a good vehicle to ensure that the resources reach the beneficiary
    communities. Because the social funds were decentralized and autonomous, they were able to reach the
    beneficiaries with most of the resources responding to their needs. However, ceilings should be set at a
    level that allows basic infrastructure building to be carried out.
l Requiring the inclusion of maintenance plans in microproject proposals contributes to
    sustainability of the structures. There was evidence that microprojects that were supported by the
    social funds were being maintained one year after completion based on the plans that were submitted
    with the proposals.
l Capacity-building should be considered as part of individual microprojects to strengthen the
    beneficiary communities in project planning and management. When capacity-building was
    separated from infrastructure microprojects, the beneficiaries did not benefit much from skills'
    improvement in the areas of needs assessment, selecting priorities, and preparing and managing
    microprojects.
l Although LILs are meant to be simple and flexible, they are not easier to manage than other
    operations as they require high inputs from the Bank. Being a LIL and decentralized, this project
    made more demands on staff time and resources. The same amount of resources required to manage
    traditional investment projects is also needed to provide implementation support to LILs and greater
    interaction with the project management teams.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower comments on the Implementation Completion Report for the Pilot Social Fund

Several comments from the Government of Togo (GOT) were made on the form of the document which
could be attributed to the fact that sometimes the meaning got lost in the translation, therefore such
comments were not addressed in the English version.

More substantial comments, however, were made on the following:

Section 3.3 (support to income-generating microprojects): GOT disagrees with the mention that there were
two different approaches taken by AGAIB Maritime and AGAIB Savanes and suggests that this section
starting "Given the differential availability" be deleted. GOT also states that the component's outline was
well defined but that there seems to be a contradiction in the DCA on that account.

Section 4.1, Table 2: GOT proposes that under item No. 1, 70 percent of funds had been disbursed and
item No. 6 that not solely Savane's 2002 annual report but both AGAIBs reports showed that the
sub-projects were still maintained a year later

Income-generating microprojects: If it is true that its conceptualization was delayed, GOT thinks that the
final approach which was to provide institutional support to Decentralized Financial Institutions, followed
by extra financial assistance, was endorsed by everybody. The DCA contains the germs of contradiction of
this component. GOT is of the opinion that this component is the only one that looks at the "basket of a
housewife" and a project intended to fight poverty should integrate such a component but in a redefined
manner.

Monitoring System: The system that was established for this purpose did not get completed for difficulties
mentioned above. However, the agencies tried to keep up the monitoring of each completed sub-project.



                                                     - 17 -

Government's performance: As of today, the agencies have received the full amount of the counterpart
funds allowing them to deal with some urgent recurrent costs (i.e., electricity, phone, rent, water, ). Given
the performance of the AGAIBs, the government has also just freed up a first advance of CFAF
15,000,000 for the institutional revitalization of the new AGAIBs in the three remaining regions. This
shows how these institutions are important to us and that our truest intentions are to use them as real
instruments to fight poverty.

This report that we find globally unbiased (although Bank's performance is given a better coverage)
reflects our point of view.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information

Not applicable




                                                      - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR           Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of decentralized AGAIB able to         2                             2
deliver social fund programs effectively

Establishment of MIS system and one year of 100%                            50%
full functioning




Output Indicators:
                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR           Actual/Latest Estimate
Microprojects approved (Socio Economic        600                           185
Infrastructures)


Microprojects completed (Socio-Economic       300                           56
Infrastructure)


Socio-economic infrastructure Microprojects 70%                             80%
correctly maintained


New structures being used                     80%                           100%


Microprojects approved (Capacity building for 300                           65
grassroots communities and civil society)


Microprojects completed by grassroots         35                            36
community groups (Capacity building for
grassroots communities and civil society)


Dossiers correctly prepared                   80%                           83-100%


Microproject requests processed in required 90%                             90-95%
time

1 End of project
The actual project implementation period was only 19 months.




                                                         - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                           Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
                        Component                          US$ million   US$ million
1. Small socioeconomic infrastructure at the community        2.00            0.55           27.5
level
2. Capacity-building for grassroots communities and civil     1.00            0.09              9
society
3. Support to income-generating microprojects                 0.90            0.03           3.33
4. Institutional arrangements                                 1.30            0.61          46.92

Total Baseline Cost                                           5.20            1.28
 Physical Contingencies                                       0.40
 Price Contingencies                                          0.40
                          Total Project Costs                 6.00            1.28
                    Total Financing Required                  6.00            1.28




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                             0.00            0.1          0.00         0.00         0.1
                                    (0.00)          (0.09)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.09)
2. Goods                             0.00            0.3          0.09         0.00         0.40
                                    (0.00)          (0.2)       (0.07)         (0.00)      (0.27)
3. Services
(a) Consultant's Services            0.00           0.00          1.50         0.60         2.10
and Studies                         (0.00)          (0.00)      (1.50)         (0.00)      (1.50)

(b) Training                         0.00           0.00          1.10         0.00         1.10
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (1.10)         (0.00)      (1.10)
4. Miscellaneous
(a) Grants for subprojects           0.00           0.00          1.80         0.00         1.80
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (1.60)         (0.00)      (1.60)

(b) Operating Costs                  0.00           0.00          0.30         0.05         0.35
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.20)         (0.00)      (0.20)

(c) PPF                              0.00           0.00          0.10         0.00         0.10
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.10)         (0.00)      (0.10)
   Total                             0.00           0.40          5.00         0.65         6.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.30)      (4.70)         (0.00)      (5.00)




                                                 - 20 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                                                                    1
                                                           Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
    1. Works                                0.00               0.00               0.12             0.00              0.12
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.09)           (0.00)             (0.09)
    2. Goods                                0.00               0.00               0.21             0.00              0.21
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.18)           (0.03)             (0.21)
    3. Services
    (a) Consultant's Services               0.00               0.00               0.40             0.00              0.40
    and Studies                            (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.40)           (0.00)             (0.40)

    (b) Training                            0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
    4. Miscellaneous
    (a) Grants for Sub-projects             0.00               0.00               0.47             0.00              0.47
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.40)           (0.07)             (0.47)

    (b) Operating Costs                     0.00               0.00               0.26             0.00              0.26
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.21)           (0.04)             (0.25)

    (c) PPF                                 0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
        Total                               0.00               0.00               1.46             0.00              1.46
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)             (1.28)           (0.14)             (1.42)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Small socio-economic         2.10                      0.80        0.55                    0.10       26.2               12.5
infrastructure at the
community level
2. Capacity-building for        1.20                                  0.09                                7.5
grassroots communities
and civil society
3. Support to                   0.60                                  0.03                                5.0
income-generating
microprojects
4. Institutional                1.10         0.20                     0.61         0.04                  55.5      20.0
arrangements




                                                           - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               11/24/1997                3    TTL; Cons. (Sociologist); Oper.
                                              Analyst

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               6/11/1998                11    TTL; Oper. Analyst, Cons.
                                              (Sociologist); Sr. Counsel,
                                              Counsel, Sr. Fin. Spec; Cons.
                                              Sr. Oper. Officer;
                                              Econ/Statistician; ACS; Peer
                                              Reviewers

 Supervision
               06/25/1999                                                             S               S
               06/30/2000                 6   Prev. TTL; New TTL; Cons                S               S
                                              (Inst. Dev.); Res. Mission Spec;
                                              Cons (Community Dev. Spec);
                                              Cons. (Microfinance)
               12/19/2000                 9   TTL; Cons. (Instit. Dev); Social        S               S
                                              Dev. Spec; Community Dev.
                                              Spec; Public Health Spec;
                                              Microfinance Spec; M&E
                                              Expert; Agro-Econ.; Chief Educ.
                                              Analyst
               06/22/2001                 5   Social Dev. Spec; Cons. (4)             U               S
               02/06/2002                 5   Proc. Spec. (2); Sr. Oper. Officer;     U               U
                                              TTL; Fin. Manag. Spec

 ICR
               03/03/2003                3     Oper. Officer; Sr. Oper.               U               U
                                               Officer; Cons.



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               14.1                            40.04
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    30.2                            85.76
  Supervision                              93.1                            193.1
  ICR                                      10.5                              12.2
  Total                                   147.9                            331.1




                                               - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. 1. Aide-Memoire 24 November - 12 December, 1997, 7 - 25 June, 1999, 05 - 19 December, 2000,
   14-17 and 23-24 November 2001
   2. Beneficiary Assessment, 2000
   3. Borrower's Completion Report
   4. Development Credit Agreement dated May 3, 1999
   5. Étude d'Évaluation des Actions et des Opérations de privatisation des Banques et des Institutions
   Financiéres Prévues au PAREP-Secteur Promotion de la Microfinance, Novémbre 2001
   6. Financial Audit Reports for 2000, 2001, 2002
   7. Mid-Term Review dated December 2000
   8. Summary of Findings of Investigation: AGAIB (TGO-02-SFP-02)
   9. Manuel de Procedures Vol. I, II, III, Décembre 2001
   10. Manuel Administratif, Vol III, V. E' Décembre 2001
   11. Programme National de Lutte Contre la Pauvreté (PLNLP), 1995
   12. Project Appraisal Document No.19152
   13. Revue des Procedures de Passation des Marchés, Daniel Thirion, Décembre 2001
   14. Statutes and By-Laws of AGAIB -Region Maritime
   15. Statutes and By-Laws of AGAIB- Region Savanes
   16. Summary of Findings of Investigation: AGAIB (TGO-02-SFP-02)
  17. Technical Report, 11-22 June, 2001




                                                 - 26 -

Additional Annex 8. English summary of Borrower's contribution

Project Identification: This project (Cr. 3195) had a credit facility of US$5.8 million and was financed by
IDA, the Togolese government and the communities.

This project, with a particular focus on rapid disbursement, community development and a participative
approach, aimed at testing a mechanism for the procurement of services and products as a poverty
reduction strategy, in the aftermath of the structural adjustment programs.

Poverty reduction, development and the socio-political situation of 1991-93 led the government, with the
assistance of UNDP to initiate a strategy (SNP) and a program (PNLP) for poverty reduction. The
government and the World Bank, took the PNLP further by initiating the Social Fund as a tool for
decentralization and regionalization of economic and social development, with the AGAIBs as
implementing agencies.

The major objectives of the AGAIBs were to improve the living conditions of the most deprived
communities and build the capacities of local institutions serving as promoters or intermediaries. The pilot
phase involved only the Maritime and Savane regions. Each of them had an autonomous agency responsible
for project management and implementation. They were established together with a General Assembly, a
Regional Board of Directors and a Regional Approval Committee. The national coordination unit ensured
the linkage between the AGAIB, the World Bank and the government.

The project went through five major phases: (1) January 1999 to February 2000 ­ staff recruitment,
provision of logistics to the agencies on the basis of tenders, launching of project and sensitization
campaigns, tenders and indication of interest in the recruitment of intermediaries, pre-selection and training,
finalizing terms of reference. (2) March to October 2000 ­ implementation of Pilot Social Fund Project,
with 4 Regional Approval Committee meetings. (3) November 2000 to August 2001 ­ First suspension of
IDA disbursements. (4) September to December 2001 ­ Suspension lifted, but there were problems of
professional ethics at AGAIB-Maritime region, leading to the freezing of the accounts and changes in staff.
(5) January to December 2002 ­ Second suspension of IDA disbursements.

Microprojects approved after 4 Regional Approval Committee meetings were as follows: In infrastructure,
capacity building and institutional support to SFD, approvals made were 92, 57 and 4 respectively for the
Maritime Region, while for the Savanes Region 93, 8 and 3 were approved respectively. In terms of
approval processes of components 1 and 2 for both AGAIB-Région Maritime and AGAIB-Région Savanes,
616 requests were made, 346 approved and 250 notified, while in terms of implementation status 105 were
completed, 53 not completed and 92 not started.

With component 3, unlike 1 and 2, the two agencies signed similar contracts with two local consultancy
firms for project identification and for the professional training of SFDs. Due to the contradiction between
the Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement, logistic support was minimal and was not even
commenced. Only technical support led to the development of management tools for the SFDs. In terms of
partnerships, the AGAIBs worked with partners representing them in the field. They had a selection of
intermediaries and a short-listing of SMEs. For both AGAIB-Région Maritime and AGAIB-Région
Savanes varying numbers of Intermediaries, SMEs, Suppliers, and Consultants were selected or
short-listed, totaling 370, and they implemented a total of 133 sub-projects.

In terms of geographic distribution, all localities in the two regions were covered, with the basic principle



                                                       - 27 -

being that the agencies should allow the communities to decide and avoid creating imbalances in the
approval process. In AGAIB-Région Maritime, average microprojects in C1 and C2 were 15.3 and 8.8,
while for AGAIB-Région Savanes it was 23.2 and 2, respectively.

The sensitization campaigns by the agencies gave some ray of hope to the partners. The quality of the
relations between them was highly affected by the inability of the agencies to honor their commitments.

Financial Assessment: Between 1999 and 2001 the counterpart fund obtained from the government for the
3 agencies came to CFA Francs 70 million, while by April 24, 2002 IDA disbursed about SDR 1,155,159
and the remaining credit of SDR 2,644,841 was cancelled. During the 2nd suspension, however, some
projects were completed, after being pre-financed by Intermediaries/SMEs. The liabilities relating to these
commitments stood at CFA Francs 141,940,214 for both the Maritime and Savane AGAIBs. The table of
budgetary consumption for various categories based on the credit agreement, showed a total cost of SDR
3,800,000 for initial budget, SDR 1,050,614 for consumption and SDR 2,749,386 available.

Economic assessment: The implementation of the Pilot Social Fund (PSF) involved many actors from civil
society providing various services in line with the participative approach. By trying to provide quality
services, all these establishments built their human resource capacities. The 20 percent service charge for
intermediaries on the cost of IDA microprojects sometimes contributed to the trend of quality service. The
PSF mitigated the problem of unemployment in Togo and provided a good working environment for
identifying the best operators.

Analysis of Project Achievements: The positive achievements are decentralization, financial and
decision-making autonomy, participative approach, monitoring and evaluation, which have been introduced
into the management and operational systems of the PSF. The sustainability of the achievements of the
project appears through indicators of ownership such as community identification of priority needs and
optimum solutions, participation in key implementation processes, the size of the project, capacity-building
measures at all stages of the project.

The weaknesses in the project implementation were related to inadequacies in the institutional setup and the
agreement on the ceding of IDA funds by government. Firstly, the interaction between National
Coordination and AGAIB Coordination was seen as a working relationship and not in terms of hierarchy,
thus creating conflict. Secondly, while the National Coordination Unit's (NCU) involvement in the
governance of the Associations and in the establishment of the PSF has been questioned, the autonomy of
the AGAIBs has been diversely interpreted. Also, the close interaction of the Regional Board of Directors
with the project staff brought about some familiarity, which affected their working relationship and
arbitration processes. Thirdly, the multi-phase follow-up system gave greater priority to quality than to
quantity of services, yet quality was sometimes sacrificed, and objectivity lost. The extent of poverty in
Togo is more a question of quality than quantity, hence the importance of capacity building.

Two major factors have had negative consequences on project implementation. They are the suspension of
IDA disbursements to Togo for non-payment of debt arrears, and the ceiling placed on disbursements from
the fund. There was an imbalance between the commitments made by the Regional Approval Committee
(RAC) and the actual capacity to mobilize resources for the special account. Hence the Agencies were
overwhelmed with approved microprojects, which could not take off for lack of funds.

An assessment of the role of the government and the World Bank during the project implementation shows
that government did well by accepting to fully channel funds from a donor to a private organization, though
the cash flow was twice blocked leading to incomplete projects and closures. The World Bank also takes


                                                    - 28 -

credit for financing this initiative, though the rationale did not reach its logical conclusion. In view of the
socio-political entanglement in Togo, the Bank should have signed with the government or directly with the
AGAIBs a mandate agreement for this pilot initiative, or convert the loan into a grant.

In terms of future activities, and for reasons of efficiency and the launching of the activities in the
remaining 3 regions, a general assembly will be called to establish the AGAIB National Coordination as a
single institution. Also, the functioning and sustainability of completed microprojects will be ensured while
attempts will be made to complete those started and abandoned.

The lessons learnt include transparency, the simplicity of procedures, the empowerment of beneficiary
communities in decision-making, social dumping and the rapid implementation of activities. These speak
for a re-launching of the initiative all over the country, with an institutionally improved AGAIB and an
adapted manual of procedures. This new project could have a formal HIV/AIDS component. Finally the
AGAIBs are a model of decentralization and an efficient tool for poverty alleviation in Togo.




                                                       - 29 -

- 30 -

