Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19152
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.8 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
FORA
PILOT SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
April 14, 1999
Human Development III
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of April 1998)
Currency Unit  CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1 = CFAF 580
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGAIB        Agence d Appui aux Initiatives de Base
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
FONGTO       Federation of Togolese NGOs (Federation des ONG Togolaise)
FORDES       Fonds Regional de Developpement Economique et Social
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDA          International Development Agency
IEC          Information, Education and Communication
LIL          Learning and Innovation Loan
LOI          Letter of Invitation
M & E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS          Management Information System
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NGO          Non Governmental Organization
PCD          Project Concept Document
PNLP         National Program to Fight Poverty (Programme National de Lutte contre la Pauvrete)
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
SOE          Statement of Expenditures
TOR          Terms of Reference
Vice President:        Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director:               Theodore Ahlers
Sector Manager:        Helena Ribe
Task Team Leader:      Maurizia Tovo



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Project Financing Data ................1
A.  Project Development Objective                       ..
1.    Project Development Objective and Key Performance Indicators                .2
B. Strategic Context                                              ..2
1.  Sector-related CAS Goal Supported by the Project                        .2
2.  Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy                            .2
3 .    Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices          .2
C.  Project Description Summary                                          ..3
1. Project Components                                         .3
2.    Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project               .3
3. Benefits and Target Population                                  .3
4.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements                          .4
D. Project Rationale                        ..4
1.    Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejections ..................................................... 4
2.    Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or Other Development Agencies ...............    5
3.    Lessons Learned and Reflected in Proposed Project Design ...................................................... 5
4.    Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership ................................5.............................. 5
5.    Value Added of Bank Support in this Project ...............................6..,.,..................6
E.   Summary Project Analysis ......................6
1.    Economic.6
2.    Financial............,.....,,........,..,,,..,,,.,,....,,,,,..6
3. Technical   ,..6
4.  Institutional ................... . . . . . ... . .                                              6
5.  Social ......................6
6. Environmental Assessment                                      .7
7. Participatory Approach                                      .7
F.  Sustainability and Risks                                          ..7
1.    Susttan.bility.7
2. Critical Risks                                          .7
3. Possible Controversial Aspects   , ...8
G. Main Credit Conditions                                             ..8
1. Negotiation .8
2. VP Approval                                             .8
3.  Effectiveness .....................8
H.      Readiness for Implementation ....................... . . .         ... . . ...8
. Compliance with Bank Policies                                        ..9
List of Annexes
Annex 1:   Project Design Summary
Annex 2:   Detailed Project Description
Annex 3:   Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4:   Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5:   Financial Sununary
Annex 6:   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7:   Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8:   Documents in the Project File
Annex 9:   Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10:  Togo at a glance
Map No.IBRD 21462



Togo
Pilot Social Fund
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
Country Department 13
Date:April 1999      []Draft [x] Final             Task Team Leader: Maurizia Tovo
Country Director: Theodore Ahlers                  Sector Manager: Helena Ribe
Project ID: 52263     Sector: Social               Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan   Program of Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes  I ] No
Project Financing Data               [] Loan      I X] Credit     ] Guarantee ['    ] Other [Specify]
For Credits:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$5 millionlSDR 3.8 million
Proposed terms:                       [x]  Multicurrency     []  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10         1]   Standard Variable  []  Fixed          []   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: NA
Service charge: .75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                                   Local             Foreign          Total
Government                                                0.2                --              0.2
IDA                                                       4.7                0.3             5.0
Community                                                 0.8                --              0.8
Total        5.7                0.3             6.0
Borrower: Govermment of Togo
Guarantor: NA
Oversight ministry: Ministry of Planning and Economic Development
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYJUS$M):  2000     2001       2002       2003
Annual 1.3         1.5        1.6        0.6
Cumulative  1.3       2.8        4.4         5.0
Project implementation period: 3 years          Expected effectiveness date: June Ist, 1999
Expected closing date: December 30, 2002



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 2
Country: Togo                                                    Project title: Social Fund Project
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
Development Objective: Reduce poverty by establishing two regional social funds to test the feasibility
of a decentralized network of social funds.
Key indicators: Regional social funds able to carry out their program effectively, respecting processing
deadlines as stated in the Operating Manual and disbursing entire credit in three years.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 14560-TO
Date of latest CAS discussion: June 1995; Country Assistance Note, December 11, 1997.
This project supports CAS objective 5: "Develop human resources and sharpen the poverty focus of
IDA's assistance." The project targets poor and disadvantaged populations, which are often missed in
other projects. It does this by giving communities access to funds for community-determined micro-
projects. The project also promotes CAS objective 2 ("Restoring the provision of basic health, education
and urban services") by providing a funding mechanism for the construction or rehabilitation of necessary
social infrastructure and helping set up maintenance arrangements.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Poor households and communities face a variety of constraints including lack of access to govemment
services (health, education, family planning, extension), inadequate water supply and sanitation, difficult
access to markets, limited employment opportunities, land shortage and degradation, and unequal access
to productive resources. In 1995, in response to high levels of poverty and economic deterioration
resulting from the 1991-93 political crisis, the Government of Togo developed the National Program to
Fight Poverty (PNLP), with VNDP support. This program focuses on three sets of activities: (1)
employment creation and revenue distribution to benefit the rural and urban poor, (2) improvement of
social services for the poor and (3) accompanying measures with components on population dynamics,
women's status and social mobilization.  Much of the funding for this program has not yet been
mobilized.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Constraints to community-based development include lack of capacity to design and implement micro-
projects at the grassroots level, lack of capacity of government and NGOs to assist communities in these
activities, a top-down and centralized approach in the public sector, and lack of access to financial
resources. By building local capacity for planning, implementing, monitoring and evaluating sustainable
economic and social activities, the project aims at increasing self-reliance and facilitating ongoing
decentralization efforts. Relying on private, regionally-based social funds working with NGOs and
community organizations will make it easier to foster a bottom-up approach; simple and rigorous
administrative procedures will facilitate communities' access to financial resources. Micro-projects to be
supported under the project will help increase access to social services and income-earning capacity for
the poor.
This is an opportune time to develop a social fund in Togo given the extensive in-country dialogue on
poverty initiated with the PNLP and further developed with the Poverty Assessment. Since it was this
dialogue, supported by the Bank, which led to the recommendation to establish regional social funds, it is
important that the Bank follows up, particularly given the strong support shown by the government. At
the same time, the proposed structure of the social fund (legally independent regional agencies) is new and
needs to be adequately tested before being extended to the whole country. Experience with social funds in
other countries indicates that a substantial period of piloting is necessary to develop the specific
institutional capacities required for a larger successful project. In this sense, a LIL is an ideal instrument.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 3
Country: Togo                                                         Project title: Social Fund Project
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component                 Category       Cost Incl.    % of      Bank-       % of
Contingencies   Total   financing    Bank-
(US$M)      _         (US$M)   financing
1. Socio-economic infrastructure:    Physical          2.4          41        2.1         42
Financing of small socio-economic
infrastructure (e.g., rehabilitation or
extension of elementary schools and
health centers, installation of water
points, construction of latrines, repair
of bridges, markets, etc.).
2. Capacity building:                Capacity          1.2          20        1.2       24
Financing  of:  (a)  human  capital   building
investments for community benefits
(e.g., functional literacy, training of
village health workers), and
(b) interventions to equip beneficiaries
with organizational, managerial and
strategic skills._
3. Income-generating activities:     Institution       1.1          18        0.6         12
Support to financial intermediation    building
(definition of this component will start
once the project becomes effective)
4. Institutional mechanisms for a   Institution         1.3         21      1.1           22
system of decentralized social funds:   building and
Operating  expenditures for project    project
implementation, management, super- management
vision and coordination.          I                                    _
____________________________       Total           6.0         100        5.0         100
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
This project supports the government poverty alleviation program while shifting the emphasis from
govemrnment-provided goods and services to a community-driven and self-reliant approach. It also
supports the government on-going decentralization effort.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project will contribute to Government's poverty alleviation programs by providing key basic assets
and services to poor communities. Local communities and grassroots associations (especially women)
will be empowered by learning how to organize and analyze their needs, identify and evaluate feasible
solutions, design micro-projects, and manage their implementation. The strengthening of their capacity
and the cooperation with NGOs, small local contractors, local government structures and other facilitators
of community development will support decentralization and participatory development. The target
population will include poor rural and peri-urban communities, with a special focus on women.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 4
Country: Togo                                                  Project title: Social Fund Project
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 3 years.
Executing agencies: The project will be executed by two regional social fund agencies (AGAIB-Region
Savanes and AGAIB-Region Maritime), established as non-profit associations under the 1901 law of
associations.
Project coordination: Project management will be the primary responsibility of the two Regional
Coordinators. To ensure internal coherence for the project as a whole, the regional agencies will use the
same Operating Manual. A unit at the national-level will provide the necessary coordination between the
two regions and central government. At the sectoral level, the Operating Manual will require clearance
from the regional representative of the relevant Ministry for each micro-project. Clearance procedures and
standard criteria will be agreed with the individual ministries.
Project oversight (policy guidance, etc.): The project will be under the supervision (tutelle) of the
Ministry of Planning and Economic Development (MinistWre de la Planification et du Developpement
Economique), which will have the General Accounting Office (Cour des Comptes) audit the accounts of
both agencies. Each regional social fund agency has a seven-member Board of Directors, comprised of
three regional representatives of government and four representatives of civil society, that will have
oversight of the agency. The Boards of Directors may avail themselves of the advice of selected experts as
the occasion arises.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: There will be a full-time accountant in each
region for monitoring execution of contracts with intermediaries and communities, as well as the agency
financial management and accounting system. An Administrative and Financial Procedures Manual will
be prepared prior to effectiveness. Specialized software to manage the project accounts and to monitor
micro-project disbursements will be purchased and staff trained in their use. Community groups will have
access to appropriate training in financial management through the capacity-building component. Audit
reports will be produced by independent auditors for each component, covering the use of SOEs,
management of special accounts and other matters. These reports will be sent to the supervising ministry.
Given the extensive reliance on SOEs, special attention will be paid to verifying their reliability, and to
the internal procedures and controls involved in their preparation.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) arrangements: As this is a LIL, M&E will be a critical part of project
activities. Monitoring will be integral to each micro-project implementation process, as disbursements of
tranches for each micro-project will be contingent on performance monitoring by NGOs and project staff.
M&E mechanisms will be built into the information system, a computer software especially designed for
social funds. Data on key indicators (in terms of both process and outputs) will be generated monthly and
reviewed by project and Bank staff as described in the Operating Manual. Regularly scheduled
supervision missions will provide close monitoring as will an in-depth annual progress review, while a
base-line study will make it easier to assess project impact. Progress reports on project implementation
and outcomes will be prepared twice a year. An implementation completion report will be prepared
within six months of the credit closing, with the Government of Togo's contribution included.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Provision of social infrastructure could be done through sectoral ministries under a sector investment loan,
but their implementation capacity is limited and would therefore constrain the pace of infrastructure
delivery. In addition, by using community participation in the selection, design and implementation of the



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 5
Country: Togo                                                  Project title: Social Fund Project
activities, the project helps meet the government objective of increased community empowerment. The
synergistic effect of providing social infrastructure while at the same time increasing community capacity
will provide more sustainable mechanisms for development at the local level.
Adding a micro-credit component to the social fund during the initial stages of the project was debated.
While the Bank has preferred to wait for the evaluation of a number of on-going micro-credit initiatives,
the Togolese government has expressed a strong desire for the component to be launched as quickly as
possible as a pilot operation, thus making it possible for the Bank and the Togolese government to learn
by doing.
In discussing the social fund institutional framework, alternative institutional set-ups were considered.
The social fund could have been implemented by a government Ministry which would have the advantage
of not requiring the establishment of new agencies. However, experience with social funds in other
countries indicates that the success of a social fund is directly related to the degree of independence from
the government. During the project preparation, several alternatives were considered and preference was
given to the creation of independent regional non-profit associations. This allows for autonomy from
other existing institutions (both public and private). Two regional agencies will be established, one in
Dapaong in the Savanes Regions and one at Tsevie in the Maritime Region. A national-level unit, based
in Lome, will coordinate the activities of the regional agencies and act as liaison between the regional
agencies and with the central government.
2. Major related projectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned):
A study of major related projects in the country was carried out as part of project preparation. Its results
are summarized in a series of matrices available in the project file. These projects include: the Grassroots
Initiatives Development Project known as PAIDB (World Bank, closed in December 1997), the Micro-
Project Program known as FED VI (EU, closed in May 1995), the Micro-Project Program known as FED
VII (EU, ongoing), the Social Fund for Development (French Cooperation, ongoing), Support Fund to
Grassroots Initiatives known as FAIB (UNDP, closed in 1989).
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the proposed project design:
Social funds have proved to be an important tool for channeling funds to the poor for self-enhancement
activities (see Marc, Graham, Schacter and Schmidt, The World Bank, 1995). The accumulated
experience has shown that the effectiveness of social funds depends on several factors such as a marked
administrative autonomy, coordination with public administration agencies, integration with sectoral
policies, flexible procurement and disbursement, a participatory approach, rigorous but simple procedures,
and political support and commitment. Accordingly, there has been an endeavor to incorporate these
elements in the design of this social fund. The experience of the Bank's PAIDB showed that over-
centralization of decision-making authority, lack of coordination with regional offices and the restriction
of participation to NGOs affiliated with FONGTO had negative impacts on project activities. The present
project has been structured in such a way as to avoid these problems to the extent possible. In addition, a
number of projects financed by other donors and NGOs (e.g., the FED-VI and FED-VII projects, Aide &
Action program in Kara) show that it is unrealistic to demand community contributions exceeding 15%.
The required beneficiary contribution has therefore been limited to 15%.
4. Indications ofborrower commitment and ownership:
The dialogue with the government on the possibility of establishing a social fund grew out of discussions
on the Poverty Assessment. Since that time, the government has continued to support the idea in several
ways: (i) preparing a review of NGOs active in the country, (ii) conducting a survey of priority needs at
the community level throughout the country, (iii) preparing regional investment plans based on the survey,



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 6
Country: Togo                                                    Project title: Social Fund Project
(iv) hiring international consultants to prepare a project proposal for a regional social fund which was
submitted to the Bank, (v) designing the Fonds Regional de Developpement Economique et Social
(FORDES project) and (vi) including 1.7 billion CFAF in the 1997 budget for the Ministry of Planning
and Economic Development to experiment with the FORDES concept. The govermnent has been eager to
move forward and has appointed a team to work on the regional fund idea.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank brings a global perspective on-what works and what does not work in social funds. The project
also fits well as part of the Bank's strategy for poverty reduction in Togo and follows up on the
recommendations of the 1996 Poverty Assessment for greater participation and a bottom-up approach in
the fight against poverty. In addition, the Bank is one of the few institutions that has the capacity to
persuade the government of the importance of creating a truly independent decentralized social fund.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4): N. A.
2. Financial (see Annex 5): N.A. (the recurrent cost implications will be negligible).
3. Technical: To be determined as part of the project activities
4. Institutional:
(a) Executing agencies. Independent regional associations will allow for autonomy from other existing
institutions (both public and private), minimize red-tape and project approval time, and optimize
flexibility. A small, national-level coordinating unit will ensure coordination between regions as well as
liaison with the central government and the World Bank. Each regional agency has an elected Board of
Directors, comprising representatives of government and civil society. The regional Boards of Directors
will explore the possibility of liaising with the Regional Development Committees.
(b) Project management. Project management will be the primary responsibility of the Regional
Coordinators. To ensure internal coherence for the project as a whole, the regional agencies will use the
same Operating Manual while the national agency will provide coordination. In addition, the coordinating
unit will carry out missions to monitor the performance of the regional agencies and will communicate its
observations on project execution to the government and the World Bank.
5. Social:
Regional social funds were recommended in the Togo Poverty Assessment, which included extensive
social analysis. This analysis highlighted several constraints to poverty reduction, many of which will be
addressed by this project (insufficient access to basic social services, lack of self-reliance, weak NGOs,
etc.). It is expected that the project will have substantial social impact as it has been designed to target
those groups identified as the most vulnerable, particularly women. It is recognized, however, that
reaching these groups may be difficult because of the causes of their vulnerability: low levels of literacy,
distance to services/markets, poor infrastructure, lack of information, cultural barriers, etc. Project
outreach and micro-project procedures will be established to alleviate these problems and maximize
access to project benefits by the poorest groups. Periodic beneficiary assessments will be carried out as
part of ongoing project monitoring.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category   [] A   [I B    [XI C
7. Participatory approach:
(a) Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups. The Poverty Assessment utilized rapid participatory



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 7
Country: Togo                                                          Project title: Social Fund Project
appraisal methods to obtain a first-hand view of poverty in Togo, as voiced by the poor. Fieldwork also
included interviews with national and international NGOs and donors, and was followed by a series of
regional workshops with the participation of government, NGOs and beneficiary associations (e.g., the
artisans association) active at the regional level.  Support for a regionally-based social fund was
strengthened by these discussions.
(b) Other key stakeholders. The project preparation team integrates three different groups of stakeholders
(more or less in equal numbers): the World Bank, government agencies (Ministry of Planning, Ministry of
Civil Service, Labor and Social Protection) and NGOs. All project preparation was carried out in an
extremely participatory way, whereby project design was decided together and project documentation
(draft statutes and by-laws for the associations, the Operating Manual, job descriptions, etc.) were drafted
in small groups and finalized by the team as a whole. Discussions were also held with the donors most
active in community-based interventions, particularly the EU.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Assessing the sustainability of the social fund structure will be an integral part the M&E activities
undertaken and is, in fact, one of the reasons for using a LIL in this project. Measures taken to support
the sustainability of micro-projects financed by the social funds include: (i) an assessment of community
commitment and capacity, which will ensure local ownership and motivation to maintain and operate
assets created; (ii) capacity building and participatory processes to strengthen the involvement of local
communities, with special focus on maintenance arrangements (including choice of simple maintenance
technologies); (iii) community investments in micro-project costs, and contracts on their maintenance
responsibilities; (iv) prior commitment from the relevant government agency to support recurrent
expenditures (where applicable); and (v) capacity building to provide communities with maintenance-
related technical and managerial skills.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                        Risk Rating       Risk Minimization Measure
Poor communities are not willing to participate      S         Utilization of a participatory process
Regional information campaigns
Capacity building for communities
Security situation deteriorates                      M        Continued support to democratization
process and open dialogue
Complicated procedures or cultural barriers make it  M        Precise and simple project procedures,
difficult for communities to access funding                   rapid response to funding requests,
regular contact between intermediaries
and communities
Communities and other actors do not feel the need    N        Information campaigns
for increased capacity
Government is not willing to support truly           M         Govermment participation in project
autonomous regional social funds                               design
Sufficient capacity does not exist to staff regional  N       Nation-wide competitive selection
offices
Overall Risk Rating      M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 8
Country: Togo                                                  Project title: Social Fund Project
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The component in support of income-generating activities has not yet been defined because the World
Bank deemed it wiser to wait for the results of a nunber of ongoing initiatives. The government,
however, has already indicated it would like to have a micro-finance component in the project and is eager
to see the component operational. It is possible that there will be disagreement as to the precise content of
this component and/or as to its timing. At the beginning of the project a tripartite review (Ministry of
Planning and Economic Development, World Bank and Social Fund Agencies) will help define more
concretely the content of such a component.
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Negotiation:
a) The two regional agencies have been established (statutes and by-laws adopted, registered with the
Ministry of the Interior and Security), and a person duly mandated by theConseil d 'Administration
Regional (board of directors) to represent them at negotiations;
b) A complete preliminary version of the Operating Manual is available;
c) The Bank has prepared the Credit Agreement between IDA and the Government, as well as the Project
Agreement between IDA and each of the two regional agencies. The Government has prepared the
draft agreement between the Government and each of the two regional agencies (convention de
retrocession).
2. VP Approval:
a) The Operating Manual is adopted by the AGAIB-Region Savanes and the AGAIB-Region Maritime
and found satisfactory by the Government and the Association.
3. Effectiveness:
a) the AGAIB-Region Savanes and the AGAIB-Region Maritime Conventions have been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and the AGAIB-Rdgion Savanes and AGAIB-Region Maritime respectively;
b) the AGAIB-Region Savanes Project Account and the AGAIB-Region Maritime Project Account have
been opened and the initial contributions have been deposited therein;
c) the Borrower has employed the independent auditors referred to in the AGAIB-Region Savanes and
the AGAIB-Region Maritime Project Agreements;
d) the Government has issued the rec6piss6 (decision granting AGAIB-Rdgion Savanes and AGAIB-
Region Maritime the status of public interest associations) in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association, and published it in its official gazette;
e) AGAIB-Region Savanes and AGAIB-Region Maritime have each established an adequate financial
management system, satisfactory to the Association, for purposes of the Project;
f) AGAIB-Region Savanes and AGAIB-Region Maritime have established a coordinating unit (Unite de
Coordination Nationale) acceptable to the Association.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [N.A.]
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 9
Country: Togo                                                     Project title: Social Fund Project
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X ] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Manager:      Maurizia Tovo                 Country Manager: Theodore Ahlers



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
TOGO
PILOT SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Narrative Summary         Key Performance            Monitoring and          Critical Assumptions
Indicators            Evaluation (M&E)
Sector-related    CAS                                                         (Goal to Bank Mission)
Goal. Develop human
resources and sharpen
poverty focus of IDA
lending
Project    Development Regional social funds able  Project  M&E   system,       (Objective to Goal)
Objective.     Reduce  to carry out their program  anmual progress  review,
poverty by establishing  effectively,  respecting  base-line studies, progress
two   regional  social processing  deadlines  as reports,   implementation
funds  to  test  the  stated  in  the  Operating  completion reports.
feasibility   of    a  Manual and disbursing all
decentralized  network  credit in three years.
of social funds
Outputs. A decentralized  Two regional social funds  Project  M&E   system,   (Outputs to Objectives)
social fund structure is in  able  to  respond   to  annual progress  review, * Poor  communities  are
place   and   functions  appropriate  requests  for base-line studies, progress   willing to participate
effectively             financing, and a national reports,   implementation  * Security  situation  does
agency supporting the work  completion reports.      not deteriorate
of  the  two   regional                             * Govemment commnitment
agencies.                                            to decentralization does
not falter
Project Components and  Inputs: (budget for each                             (Components to Outputs)
Sub-components.         component)
(see Annex 2 for project
description)
a)# of micro-projects     Project  M&E   system, Local communities are able
approved;                 annual progress review, and  to access funding.
b)# of micro-projects     beneficiary assessment.
completed;
c)# of socio-economic
infrastructure micro-
projects correctly
maintained;
d)# of new structures being
used.
2.  Capacity  building:  a) # of communities /    Project  MIS  (monthly  Communities  and  other
Increased capacity among  organizations with      tables/quarterly  reports), actors feel the need for
communities,    NGOs, improved capacity and self-  and beneficiary assessment.  increased capacity
associations,  etc.  for reliance;
identifying  needs  and  b) # of training activities
implementing solutions    implemented.
3. Support to  income- Indicators to be based on
generating    activities:  clearer   defmition    of
institution building grants,  component  following
assistance  to   micro- effectiveness
entrepreneurs                                    I                         I



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
Narrative Summary         Key Performance                 M&E                Critical Assumptions
Indicators
4. Institutional                                                            Government accepts truly
mechanisms for a system                                                     autonomous regional social
of decentralized social                                                     funds
funds:
a)Establishment  of  an                           Statutes and by-laws.
appropriate legal   and
administrative structure                          Reports from  meetings to
discuss anrangements.
b)Development        of 80%  of dossiers prepared  Final version of manual
appropriate   procedural correctly.               available.
tools
90% of dossiers processed  Project MIS.
in required time.
c) Establishment of good  Agreements between NGOs Project records. Quarterly
collaboration    between  and agencies signed.    reports. Mid-term and final
agencies   and    other                           reports.
stakeholders            Understanding        and
acceptance of roles and
responsibilities
d) Equipping and staffmg  Offices   equipped   and  Project records          Sufficient capacity exists to
of regional and national staffed                                            staff regional offices
agencies
e)Operational    M&E  M&E system established.    Project records.
system adapted to the
needs of the social fund  Data on indicators collected
and other stakeholders.    and disseminated regularly



ANNEX 2
Page I of 5
TOGO
PILOT SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
Overview
This project is in response to a government request, growing out of national discussions of the results of the
Poverty Assessment.
The Project has three main components:
1. small socio-economic infrastructures at the community level;
2. capacity building for grassroots communities and civil society;
3. support to income generating micro-projects.
Implementation will be the responsibility of two regional independent social fund agencies financed by the project,
which will rely heavily on contractual services provided by private sector operators (NGOs, consulting firms,
training institutions, etc.). A national agency will support the work of the two regional agencies. Because the
project is essentially a learning instrument to make it possible to test innovative institutional arrangements while at
the same time building the capacity of civil society, the focus is more on process than on outputs. Rather: the
process is part of the output. In addition, because project outputs will be demand-driven, accurate planning and
budgeting are difficult. Project design, therefore, has to allow for maximum flexibility. Close monitoring will be
crucial for two reasons: (1) to minimize mistakes and capitalize on success, and (2) to guide allocations as the
project evolves so as to be able to respond to emerging needs.
Institutional Arrangements
(US$ 1.3 million)
Given the innovative and experimental nature of this activity, as well as the small size (US$ 5.0 million) and short
time-period (3 years) of the IDA credit, it was judged unfeasible to implement project activities in every region in
Togo. It was therefore decided that the project would concentrate initially on two regions, with the idea that in the
medium term activities would be expanded throughout the country. The two regions, Savanes in the north and
Maritime in the south, have been chosen principally on the basis of their poverty level (social indicators, access to
social services, difficulty of access, income levels, demographic pressure, etc.) and the absence of other types of
community-development support. In each region, an independent agency has been created: the.4gence d'Appui
aux Initiatives de Base (agency for support to grassroots initiatives) or AGAIB-Region Savanes, and AGAIB-
Region Maritime. A small, national-level coordinating agency (Agence de Coordination Nationale) based in Lome
will have responsibility for coordinating regional activities, liaising with the central government, and assisting
regional agencies (e.g., with IEC and public relations).
Each regional agency will have a regional coordinator, three operations officers, a senior accountant, and three
support staff. The national coordinating agency will have a national coordinator and two support staff. The terms
of reference for these posts are in the Operating Manual. The recruitment process will follow Bank procedures for
recruitment. Professional staff will be selected in a competitive process on the basis of technical expertise,
experience and dynamism. The agencies will focus on promotion, screening, financing and overall M&E, while
implementation will be contracted out either to intermediaries, that is, NGOs and private finms, or, where
appropriate, directly to community groups. Intermediaries will be selected on the basis of their experience,
competence and reputation, as well as direct assessment of their field work.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 5
Each agency will be established as a non-profit private organization (association a but non lucratif reconnue
d 'utilte publique, as per the law on associations of 1 July 1901), with an assembly general as the ultimate decision-
making body, a Board of Directors as the administrative oversight body, and a Coordination as the executing body.
The two regional agencies have been created by Regional Assemblies comprised of representatives from NGOs,
civil society and the technical ministries active in the respective region. A Regional Board of Directors consisting
of seven members (three from the government and four from civil society) has been nominated from among the
members of the regional assemblies. A Regional Screening Committee will be composed of 5 members of the
regional assembly and will be responsible for approving micro-projects beyond the amounts specified in the
Operating Manual. The national coordinating agency will be established by the two regional agencies prior to
effectiveness. A chart of the proposed organizational structure can be found at the end of this Annex.
The project will cover the cost of establishing and operating the social fund for a period of three years. This will
include: (a) small investments, such as construction or rehabilitation of office space, office equipment, furniture
and vehicles, as well as consultant services, workshops and training, and (b) operating expenditures for project
implementation, management and supervision, such as staff salaries (on a contractual basis), field supervision and
associated subsistence allowances, office consumables, and maintenance of buildings, vehicles and equipment.
Project Component 1: Small Socio-Economic Infrastructure at the community level
(US$ 2.4 million)
Component 1 will finance small socio-economic infrastructure at the community level, including preparatory
identification steps and maintenance-related arrangements and training. The Operating Manual identifies eligible
interventions as well as norms and criteria for selection. The basic requirement is that the proposed micro-project
addresses a priority need felt by the community. Possible interventions include: rehabilitation, extension or
construction of primary schools; rehabilitation, extension or construction of health centers and dispensaries;
installation of water points, reservoirs and sanitation services; rehabilitation or repair of feeder roads, small bridges
and other basic transport infrastructure; small socio-economic infrastructure for community use such as markets
and storage facilities.
Proposals for micro-projects may be presented by an intermediary (NGO or technical Ministry) or directly by the
beneficiaries. Requests presented to the social fund must be the result of a participatory process whereby the whole
community, and not just the elite, took part in the discussion and agreed with the decision. All proposals must
include: a proposal for the works, a maintenance plan and a plan to maximize utilization of what is built or
rehabilitated (e.g., measures increasing the access to school of poor children). Should recurrent costs be of concem,
such as in the case of construction of schools and health centers, requests will have to include provisions for such
costs (both the health and education ministries have plans to hire additional personnel over the next few years
within IDA-financed projects).
Close collaboration with sectoral ministries will be necessary not only to make sure that recurrent costs are
covered, but also to ensure that interventions financed by the social fund are consistent with sectoral and regional
policies, and actually reinforce them. The representation of relevant ministries in the regional assemblies, boards
of directors and regional screening committees will encourage coordination and consistency. In addition,
government Regional Directorates will assist the fund in defining technical specifications and maintenance plans
acceptable to concerned ministries, inform the agencies of relevant policy decisions in their sector, help assess the
viability of proposed micro-projects (if necessary), and act as liaison between the social fund and other actors in the
sector to optimize coordination. No micro-project will be financed in the absence of a written approval by the
appropriate sectoral Ministry (whether on the basis of a pre-established list or of a case by case analysis) and of
clear and concrete plans to cover recurrent costs and maintenance.
Micro-projects will be financed as grants for a maximum of CFA 5 million per micro-project. Beneficiaries will be
expected to contribute 15% of the total cost which may be in cash or kind (labor, materials, etc.). Should sectoral
policies require a specified contribution, such as in the case of water, these specifications will be followed and take
precedence over social fund regulations. Intermediaries (NGOs or private firms) will assist communities in their
efforts to organize, identify and prioritize their problems, discuss possible solutions, select a micro-project, work



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5
out realistic plans and a budget, submit a proposal to the social fund and implement the micro-project. For their
work, they will receive a fee of up to 20% of the portion financed by the Credit and paid by the fund (equal to 17%
of the total cost of the micro-project). Local artisans and microentrepreneurs will be contracted to carry out
necessary works, hence encouraging private sector development at the local level.
Intermediaries will be required to use a participatory approach, paying particular attention to the active
participation of women, young people, the poor and other disadvantaged groups which often do not have a voice in
public fora. Should communities present their requests directly to the social fund, monitoring and follow-up may
be sub-contracted to private sector operators active in the area (NGOs, individual consultants, consulting
companies). In all cases, the social fund staff will conduct on-site monitoring on a sample basis.
Project Component 2: Capacity Building for grassroots communities and civil society
(US$1.2 million)
Given the limited funds available, it was decided that this component should benefit only grassroots communities,
while the intermediaries and the agency personnel will be selected based on their existing competencies (at any
rate, there are in Togo other funding sources to strengthen the capacity of NGOs). Activities to be financed, at a
maximum cost of CFA 2.5 million per activity, will be of two types:
(a) investments in human capital either for the direct benefit of a majority in the community (e.g., functional
literacy, land management) or for a few people but in the interest of the whole community (e.g., training of
health assistants and pre-school teachers);
(b) interventions to improve organizational capacity and project implementation skills at the community level
(needs assessment, selecting priorities, preparing and managing micro-projects).
Capacity-building interventions will be on demand from beneficiaries themselves. A wide variety of activities can
be financed under this component, including: information sessions/material, training courses, on-the-job training,
study visits (e.g., to other villages) and short-term technical assistance. Initial assessments suggest the need for
interventions in: literacy, community-based land management (gestion des terroirs), community needs assessment
and priority selection, preparation and management of micro-projects.
Demands for capacity-building interventions will be examined by the social fund. If approved in principle, social
fund staff will refine the requests in collaboration with the intended beneficiaries to identify the appropriate
delivery mechanisms. The services of capacity building specialists may also be used.
Project Component 3 - Support to income generating micro-projects
(US$ 1.1 million)
As a number of interventions to support financial intermediation for low-income groups are presently ongoing, this
component will rely on existing specialized institutions. Income-generating activities to be supported will include
animal husbandry, agriculture and small-scale trade, and reimbursement will be stressed. Intermediaries (such as
specialized NGOs) will be selected applying rigorous and precise criteria. The details of this component will be
worked out as one of the first activities of the project by a tripartite group including the government, civil society
and the World Bank.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Because this is a LIL, the project will be subjected to very strict monitoring and evaluation. The M&E system wili
be at the same time a managing device and a communication tool. It will operate at three levels: (a) internal
performance of the agencies as organizations regardless of their mandate (e.g., division of responsibilities, financial
management, human resource management), (b) performance of each agency in carrying out its mandate (e.g.,
choice of intermediaries, micro-project processing, timeliness in answering demands for infornation), and (c)



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 5
impact of the activities financed by the agency (utilization of new or rehabilitated infrastructure, utilization of
increased community capacity, development of social capital, etc.). M&E at the second level is primarily the
responsibility of the regional agencies, while at the first and third levels the role played by the national agency will
be crucial. A computerized information network will allow all stakeholders in the project (intermediaries,
beneficiaries and donors) to have quick access to micro-project information. In addition to increase transparency,
information related to project proposals and funding decisions will be posted at agency offices. The Operating
Manual describes tools, procedures and responsibilities for M&E.
An in-depth beneficiary assessment will be conducted at the beginning of the project and repeated yearly to
estimate project impact on the living conditions of beneficiaries both in terms of socio-economic indicators and in
terms of less quantifiable changes, such as the degree of cohesiveness and solidarity within communities. Data on
key indicators (in terms of process and outputs) will be generated quarterly and reviewed by project and Bank staff.
Regularly scheduled supervision missions will provide close monitoring as will an annual progress review, while a
base-line study will make it easier to access project. impact. Progress reports on project implementation and
outcomes will be prepared twice a year. An implementation completion report will be prepared within six months
of the Credit closing, with the Govemment of Togo's contribution included.



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 5
Organization
AGAIB-Region Savanes
AGAIB-Region Maritime
REGONAL ASSEMBLY(Z)
Founding M' embers:
MO0 (7); pcivil s6aey (7, e. g;. APV; Chsntbor of Comnmeretm  Chanibr:ofAViutuq
Association of Astisans, omntledr)
regional.reprentatives oftecnclmnsre (7).
Establish the Association- approve thd:Statutes nd
Interal 0Y..Law  tfthe, Assocfiatio  define the strategy and geseral policy ofthes     RRGIONAL SCREENING COMMITTEE (5)
Asoitowihrgrt rgoa  pciiiiad. poetalities;
elec meber ofthe Boar4 of directors and select thiiauditors forthe Association,ebrs
appreve the audit of the  ~~~~        ->        NGO (I~); civilsociet (1) coimn  ity leaders (l)~..
Elxamine, appro ve Or rpj eel the application for funfding 
submijtted by the Regional Coordinator
:BOARD OF DIRECTORS;(7)                        .. 
NGO (2); c-ivil society and,commvnity leaders (2) Regional.1DIrector for Plan { I)-         REGIONAL COORDINATION~ (8).
technical mfinisties (2)  i!i
Staff:
Functions                                         I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Reginal Coordinator
ensure comhastee wit the operaional Manul and lIsaInternal  ~4 technical staff 4  support staff
select and dismis the Regional Coordinatr
confeun the apointment ofitechnical staff made by the Regional Coordinator.                            Fnto
Ensure the- maniagementand func.tioning of the Associatir
_________ ________ ________ _________ ________ ________ ________throug    the  preparation  iand   executionf  of annual action.
. ...plans:A~nd budgets-
recemiveandt exainethe application for fuinding of Micro-
project; sign the contracts
::prepare maeetings of the Regkional Screening Conimnittee;
provide mfonitoring and evaluation Of the micro projects-
information and communication.



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 1
TOGO
PILOT SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
Project Component                 Local         Foreign            Total
----------US $ million--------------------
1. Small socio-economic infrastructures at the  2.0           0.0              2.0
community level
2. Capacity Building for grassroots communities  1.0          0.0               1.0
and civil society
3. Support to income generating micro-projects  0.9           0.0              0.9
4. Institutional Anfangements                  1.0            0.3               1.2
Total Baseline Cost                            4.9            0.3              5.2
Physical Contingencies                      0.4            0.0               0.4
Price Contingencies                         0.4            0.0               0.4
Total Project Cost                             5.7            0.3               6.0
Totals may not add up due to rounding.



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 1
TOGO
PILOT SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
COST EFFECTIVENESS ANALYSIS SUMMARY
(Indicate currency, units, and base year)
Present Value of Flows                Fiscal Impact
Economic         Financial
Analysis        Analysisl          Taxes          Subsidies
Project Costs
Summary of benefits and costs:
Main Assumptions:
Cost-effectiveness indicators2
N.A.
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by taxes and subsidies, a
brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g., "The difference between financial and economic costs arises from price controls
on the inputs."
2 These indicators should compare the project with a suitable comparator, e.g., unit project costs of alternative project designs or
international standards.



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 1
TOGO
PILOT SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Years Ending 2002
(US$ Million)
Implementation Period
1999        2000          2001         2002           Total
Project Costs           ______                                               ________
Investment Costs            0.8          1.0          1.8          2.0             5.6
Recurrent Costs            0.05         0.05          0.2          0.1             0.4
Total                      0.85          1.05         2.0          2.1             6.0
Financing Sources (%
of total project costs)
IBRD/IDA                    90           90           80            80              83
Government                   0            0            0            0                0
Central                      5            5             1           1                3
Beneficiaries                5            5            19           19              14
Total                       100          100          100          100             100



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 7
TOGO
PILOT SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
I.    PROCUREMENT
1.    The proposed project will follow World Bank's guidelines on procurement of goods, works and
services, Guidelines: Procurement under-IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised in January,
August 1996, and September 1997 (Procurement Guidelines) and Guidelines for the Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised in September 1997
(Consultant Guidelines)-- in all respects. Preference for domestically manufactured goods does not apply.
In view of the simple nature of the procurement to be carried out under the project, the financial officer,
yet to be recruited, of the AGAIB will be responsible for the implementation of all procurement activities
foreseen under the project. Procurement training will also be provided to him/her as soon as recruitment
has taken place.
Procurement of Works
2.    As the contracts for civil works are not expected to exceed US$50,000 per contract, no ICB is
envisaged. Works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed US$ 100,000 equivalent may be procured by National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
procedures.
Procurement of Goods
3.    Given the small quantities of goods to be purchased under the project and the fact that it would be
difficult to do bulk procurement, no ICB is envisaged. Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$50,000 or more but less than US$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
US$200,000 equivalent may be procured by NCB procedures, acceptable to IDA. Contracts under
US$50,000, up to an aggregate of US$100,000 equivalent, for the procurement of items that cannot be
grouped into bulk procurement and for readily available off-the-shelf goods would be procured by
comparing price quotations obtained from at least three reliable local suppliers.
Community Participation
4.    Community participation will form the bulk of the project procurement given the nature of the
project and its purpose of encouraging community self-determination. Communities, with technical
assistance from NGOs, will be implementing sub-projects (i.e., small works: wells, repairs of schools and
health posts; socio-economic infrastructure: markets and storage facilities, etc.), purchasing both services
of skilled labor and goods or equipment through methods outlined in the Operating Manual and prescribed
in the contract agreements signed with the communities. Each sub-project should not exceed a maximum
amount of CFA 5 million. AGAIB will contract out implementation activities to individuals, private
contractors, NGOs and community-based agencies such as private voluntary associations selected on
criteria established in the Operating Manual. The Operating Manual will establish the procurement
procedures for the sub-projects and other NGOs or intermediary managed assignments are based on the
"Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for Community-based Investments", March 3,
1998. Standard unit cost lists will be maintained by AGAIB and will be updated every three to six
months. The lists will be used for reference prices by communities and as price ranges for standardized
socio-economic infrastructure. Communities will hire contractors of the required skill level, which
predetermines their wage rates, and procure materials and supplies by obtaining quotes from three
suppliers, when available, and selecting the suppliers with the lowest cost who fulfills their requirements.
When too few qualified local contractors or suppliers are available, communities may resort to direct
contracting with a local village contractor or supplier. Implementation of the full range of activities
included in the micro-projects will be monitored by AGAIB and by third party verification firms, for
quality and disbursement purposes.



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 7
5.    Procurement Planning and Prior Review.
5.1    Procurement Planning. Prior to issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed
procurement plan (except for Component 1: Small Socio-Economic Infrastructure at the Community
Level, which is demand-driven) for the Project shall be furnished to IDA for its review and approval.
(Provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 of the Procurement Guidelines).
5.1    Prior Review. IDA's prior review procedures would apply to (a) all purchases for which the
contract value is equivalent to or in excess of US$50,000; and (b) the first three Grants for sub-projects to
be awarded by AGAIB (Region Savanes and Region Maritime). (Provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 of the Procurement Guidelines). All other contracts will be subject to post-review.
(Provisions of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 of the Procurement Guidelines).
Consulting Services
6.    Consultants for the projects will be selected in accordance with theGuidelines for the Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 and revised September 1997.
Different procedures will be used depending on the nature of the assignment and local conditions of work.
Tlhese procedures are described in detail in the Development Credit Agreement and consist of:
6.1    Quality- and cost-based selection: Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 6.2 below,
consultants' services shaU be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of
consultants.
6.2    Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants:
(a) Selection under a Fixed budget, for ease of administration and based on performance, for most
NGOs and other intermediaries assignments, such as management of sub-projects (provisions of
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines);
(b) Selection Based on Consultant Qualifications, for smal project evaluation contracts estimated
to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract and carried out in rural areas for which the need for
preparing and evaluating competitive proposals is not justified (provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the
Consultant Guidelines);
(c) Least-cost Selection for project auditing to cost less than'US$100,000 equivalent per contract
(provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines); and
(d) Individual Consultants will be used for project management, capacity building, skill
transmission, project evaluation, and third-party post review (provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of
the Consultant Guidelines).
6.3    Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
(a) Selection Planning. Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to IDA for its review
and approval (provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 of the Consultant Guidelines).



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 7
(b) Prior Review. (i) With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other
than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of the Appendix to the Consultant Guidelines shall
apply; (ii) With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms other than for services for
project evaluation under the component "Institutional Arrangement" of the Project, estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more but less than the equivalent of $100,000, or any amendment to any such
contract that would result in a revised value equivalent to $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 1 and 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)), and 5 of Appendix 1 of the
Consultant Guidelines shall apply; (iii) With respect to each contract for the employment of individual
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, or any amendment to any such contract
that would result in a revised value equivalent to $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to IDA for its prior review and
approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(c) Post Review. With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 6.3 (b) above, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply provided that
the exceptions to IDA's prior review shall not apply to the terms of reference for each such contract,
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by IDA, amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms or individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent
or above.
7.    The procurement methods applicable to the various expenditure categories are summarized in
Table A (Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements). The thresholds for procurement methods and
prior review are presented in Table B (Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review).
II.    DISBURSEMENT
8.    Disbursement will be made for goods, works, and services that are eligible for IDA financing.
The US dollar will be considered an eligible currency for bidding and payment-(paragraphs 2.29 and 2.32
of the Procurement Guidelines) and it will also be acceptable for consultant services payment. The
allocation of Credit Proceeds is presented in Table C.
Use of Statement of Expenses (SOEs)
9.    All withdrawal applications submitted for disbursements of funds for eligible expenditures will be
fully documented. However, the Borrower will be authorized to submit withdrawal applications on the
basis of statement of expenditures (SOEs) for contracts of less than US$50,000 equivalent of goods, works
and consultants' services (firms and individuals), and for training and operating costs. All supporting
documentation for such withdrawal applications claimed on the basis of SOEs will be retained by the
AGAIB and will be readily available for review by visiting World Bank missions and external auditors.
All claims for expenditures above the limits of SOE expenditures indicated above would be eligible for
direct payment.
Special Account
10.   To ensure that funds for project implementation are available as and when needed, two Special
Accounts in local currency (one per regional agency) would be established at commercial banks
acceptable to IDA, with an initial deposit equivalent to 100,000,000 CFA Francs for the AGAIB-Region
Savanes and 150,000,000 CFA Francs for the AGAIB-Region Maritime to cover about three months of
expenditures, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account after Credit effectiveness. [The amount for the
AGAIB-Region Maritime is slightly higher since it will cover the cost of supporting the national
coordinating agency]. The Special Accounts would be replenished monthly, or more often if the total
disbursed amounts to one third of the initial deposit. Disbursements are expected to be completed by
December 30, 2001.



ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 7
III. PROJECT ACCOUNTS AND AUDITING
Project Accounts
11.   Prior to credit effectiveness, Govermnent will be required to deposit the first tranche of the
counterpart funds equivalent to US $80,000 to cover the first year of project implementation
Auditing
12.   The two regional agencies will maintain project accounts in accordance with sound accounting
practices acceptable to IDA. An annual audit report of project accounts, prepared by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA, and in accordance with the Bank document "Financial Account Reporting and
Auditing Handbook", January 1995, will be submitted to IDA no more than six months after completion
of each fiscal year. Semi-annual audit reports of the Statements of Expenditures (SOE) will be submitted
within three months of each period.



ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 7
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent, including contingencies)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category                          NCB           Other a           N.B.Fb            TOTAL
1. Works:
Rehabilitation of regional offices             0.1                                                 0.1
(0.09)                                             (0.09)
2. Goods:
Equipment, Vehicles, Fumiture, and             0.3             0.09                                0.4
Materials for regional offices                 (0.2)          (0.07)                             (0.27)
3. Services:
(a) Consultants' Services and Studies                           1.5             0.6                2.1
(1.5)                              (1.5)
(b) Training                                                    1.1                                1.1
_________      (1.1)                               (1.1)
4. Miscellaneous:
(a) Grants for Sub-projects                                     1.8                                1.8
(1.6)                              (1.6)
(b) Operating Cost c                                           0.3             0.05               0.35
(0.2)                              (0.2)
(c) PPF                                                        0.1                                 0.1
(0.1)                              (0.1)
TOTAL          0.4             5.0             0.65                6.0
________________________________   =(0.3)                     (4.7)                              (5.0)
Note. Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be fnanced by the IDA credit, excluding taxes and duties. Totals may
not add up due to rounding.
a Other procurement methods include: national shopping, direct purchasing of goods, selection of consultants following
Bank/IDA guidelines, and expenditures following Govermment's administrative procedures acceptable to IDA.
b N.B.F. = Not IDA-financed.
c Operating costs includes incremental operating costs incurred for project implementation, management and
supervision. These include office consumables, field supervision and associated subsistence allowances, building,
vehicle and equipment maintenance and operating costs, utilities, communications' expenses, vehicle insurance, office
rental, and incremental contractual salaries (excluding civil servants salaries).



ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 7
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value         Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)            Method              Prior Review
US $ thousands                             US $ thousands
1. Works
Rehabilitation of    Equal or less than                          Equal or more than
Regional Offices     US$50,000                                   US$50,000
2. Goods
Equal ore more than    NCB                 Equal or more than
US$50,000 but less                         US$50,000
than US$100,000
3. Services
All TORs
LOI, short list,
selection and draft
contracts: Firms=
$100,000 or more;
Individuals= $50,000
or more
4. Miscellaneous
(a) Grants for Sub-  Equal or less than    Community             First three draft sub-
projects              US$10,000 equivalent  Participation        project contracts for
each of the two
regional agencies will
be subject to prior
review
Total value of contracts subject to prior review is estimated at US$0.5 million, or 10 percent of total costs.



ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 7
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category                  Amount in                Financing Percentage
US$ million
1. Grants for micro-projects
(a) AGAIB-Region Savanes                           0.8            100% of amounts disbursed
(b) AGAIB-Region Maritime                          0.8
2. Works for Part D of the Project
(a) AGAIB-Region Savanes                           0.05           100% foreign expenditures and
(b) AGAIB-Region Maritime                          0.05           85% local expenditures
3. Equipment, Vehicles, Furniture and
Materials for Parts B and D of the Project
(a) AGAIB-Region Savanes                           0.1            100 % foreign expenditures and
(b) AGAlIB-Rfgion Maritime                         0.2            85% local expenditures
4. Consultants' Services, Training and
Studies for Parts B, C, and D of the Project
(a) AGAIB-Region Savanes                           1.0            100%
(b) AGAIB-Region Maritime                          1.1
5. Operating Costs for Part D of the Project'
(a) AGAIB-Region Savanes                           0.1            85%
(b) AGAIB-Region Maritime                          0.2
6. PPF                                             0.1
7. Unallocated                                     0.5
Total Financed by IDA                              5.0            _
a Operating costs include incremental operating costs incurred for project implementation, management and
supervision. These include: office consumables, field supervision and associated subsistence allowances,
buildings, vehicles and equipment maintenance and operating costs, utilities, communications' expenses, vehicle
insurance, office rental, and incremental contractual salaries (excluding civil servants salaries).



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 1
TOGO
PILOT SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Planned               Actual
A. Project Budget (US$000)                         82.5
B. Project Schedule
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        3                     3 1
First (and only) Bank mission                 11/24/1997            11/24/1997
Negotiations                                   6/11/1998            6/16/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 06/01/19992
Prepared by: Ministry of Planning and Economic Development
Preparation assistance: Italian Trust Fund, Dutch Trust Fund
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                       Position
Maurizia Tovo                              Task Team Leader (AFTH3)
Johanne Angers                             Operations Analyst (AFTH3)
John Elder                                 Sociologist (consultant) (AFTH3)
Sidi Boubacar                              Senior Counsel (LOAAF)
Hassane Cisse                              Counsel (LOAAF)
David Webber                               Sr. Financial Management Specialist (LOAAF)
Francesco Tomieri                          Consultant (AFTH3)
Fily D'Almeida                             Sr. Operations Officer (AFMTG)
Koffi Eguida                               Economist/Statistician (AFMTG)
Celine Gavach and Virginie Vaselopulos     Language Task Assistants (AFTH3)
Steen Jorgenson                            Peer Reviewer (HDNSP)
Three months of dead time (January-March 1998) waiting for government decision on the selection of pilot regions.
2 Due to an unstable political situation, the project was put on hold shortly after negotiations were concluded.



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 1
TOGO
PILOT SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Operating Manual
Administrative Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
Summary matrices of related projects.
Statutes and By-Laws of AGAIB-Region Savanes
Statutes and By-Laws of AGAIB-Region Maritime
*-Including electronic files.



Status of Banik Group Operations in Togo
Operations Portfolio
As of 12-Apr-99
Difference Between
e:x pcted
Oiqinsil Amo.illt In Us4 Mililons                 and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed *   Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 36
Active Projects                                                                                                                                                                  C/i
TG-PE-2875      1998   GOVT OF TOGO                      ROAD TRANSPORT                           0.00       50.00         0.00             39.97        34.06        0.00       V+
TG-PE-2891      1998   GOV'T OF TOGO                     NAT.AGRICULTURE SERV                     0.00       26.20        0.00              26.05         8.11        0.00       __
TG-PE-41280    1998                                      PUB.ENT.RESTR.&PRIV.                     (1.(l      30.00        0.00              28.76       25.97         0.00       g
TG-PE-2009      1995   GOVERNMENT                        EDUCATION                                 (.f0      36.6(        (1. 0             21.16        18.48        0.00
TG-PE-2865      1994   GOVERNMENT OF TOGO                LOt4E URBAN DEVELOPME                     (.if)     26.20        (1.0(              8.38         5.40        0.00
Total                                                                                             0.00      169.00        0.00             124.32        92.02        0.00
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  31.75              606.26              644.01
of which has been repaid:                   0.00               86.80               86.80
Total now held by I'RD and IDA:                 169.00              500.19              669.19                                                                                   b)
Amount sold                                       0.00                 0.00                0.00                                                                                  to
Of which repaid               :                0.00                0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                :              124.32                  .52             124.84
a. Intended disbursements to date minlus actual dlihbursements to date as projocted at appra-ial.
rA
Note:
Diabursement data Is updated at the end of the first week or tite month anid is cujrrently as of 31-Mat-99.
tbrt
GClnLrateid by llic Opcrutinu Inlortii.nlioii Syslk.ii ((1)IS



ANNEX 10
Page I of 2
Togo at a glance
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan     Low-
Togo     Africa  Income       DeveIopnint diamond
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                      4.3       614     2.048                 Ufe expectancy
GNP per capita (AUas method, USs)                    330       500       350
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                     1.4       309       72 2
Average annual growth, 199147
Population (%6)                                      3.0        2.7      2.1 
Labor force (%)                                      2.7        2.6      2.3     GNP                             Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest yeaH available, 199147)                             capit                        enrollment
Poverty (% of populatlon below national poverty One)                                               ,
Urban population (% of total population)              32        32        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      SO        52        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              86        90        78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            25                  61               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (r ofpopulation)                63        44        71
Illiteracy (% ofpopubation age 15+)                   48        43        47
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age populaton)  133       75        91            Togo -    Low-income group
Male                                               147        82       100
Female                                             118        67        81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986       1996      1997
Economic ratos'
GDP (USS billons)                          0.62      1.1        1.5      1.5
Gross domestic investmenttGDP              24.9    18.8        16.3     15.6                    Trd
Exports of goods and services/GDP          47.3    44.0       32.9      32.9                    rade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                 25.6      7.1       11.6     12.3
Gross national savings/GDP                 29.9      9.0       12.0     13.6
Current account balance/GDP                 4.0    -9.4        -4.5     -4.5     DomestiC 
Interest payments/GDP                       0.6      4.1        1.5      1.8     Savings                   I Investment
Total debt/GDP                             30.1   100.9       99.9      89.6
Total debt service/exports                 11.7    29.3        11.2      13.3
Present value of debt/GDP                                     63.9
Present value of debt/exports                                 190.8
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 1.8     1.1      9.1        4.7      6.0
GNP per capita                    -1.5    -1.8       7.2        2.0      3 1ogo                     Low-income grop
Exports of goods and services       2.7    -2.9      2.9       7.2       5.4                      __
STRUCTURE of the ECON4MY
1976    1986       1996      1997     Growth rates of output and lnesfnt/)
(% of GOP)
Agnculture                                 32.3    34.8        40.8      41.8    100
Industry                                   20.5    19.9       20.7      20.8      s0
Manufactunng                               7.0      7.3       9.2       8.7      a
Services                                   47.2    45.4        38.5     37.4      40                9 4   97   96   97
Private consumption                        51.9    75.3       75.6      77.1    100
General govemment consumption              22.4    17.6        12.8      10.6
Imports of goods and services              46.5    56.7       37.7      36.1                    GDI         GOP
(average annual growth)                 197686  1987-97       1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and inports(%)
Agriculture                                 4.9      4.0       16.4       2.7    40
Industry                                   -0.3      1.3       3.4       8.1    20
Manufacturing                              0.2      3.3       2.7       9.4
Services                                    1.0    -1.5        5.3       4.8      o/
Private consumption                         5.2      1.7        8.1     10.1   -20
General govemment consumption               -1.9    -15        13.1    -11.1
Gross domestic investment                   4.8    -6.0        27.9      4.1    40
Imports of goods and services               0.8    -6.3         9.9     12.0            -     Exports   -4lnmports
Gross national product                      1.4      1.2       10.3       4.8   I
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



ANNEX 1 0
Page 2 of 2
Togo
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                            1976    1986       1996      1997     Inflation 1%)
(% change)                                                                       40
Consumerprices                             11.6      4.1        4.6      8.1    30
Implickit GOP deflator                     14.2      5.6        5.1      9.6    20
Govemment flnance                                                                10
(% of GDP, inchudes curnent grants)                                               a
Current revenue                               ..    30.0       14.8     16.0   -10       92         94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                               7.4       -3.5     -0.3            -     GDP deflator    O  CPt
Overall surplus/deftct                        ..    -6.3       -6.3     -2.4
TRADE
(S mWiNions)                              .1976    1986       1996      1997     Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                          ..    362         373       365    am T
Phosphates                                  ..      98         89       94
Cotton                                              30         97       93
Manufactures                                ..      97         78       69     400
Total imports (cio)                           ..    487        443       446             1
Food                                         ..    134        100      120    2M
Fuel and energy                                     19         34       40
Capital goods                               ..      75        105      101       o
Export price index (1995=100)                 .      114       102       107          9    2 9    4 9           e 9
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      49       101        98               sExports     NImports
Terms oftrade (1995=100)                     ..    233         101       109
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UJSS milhions)                           1976    1986       1996      1997     Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services               183      467       480       464 o
Imports of goods and services               241      591       552       5E0
Resource balance                            _58    -124         -72      -86    -2
Net income                                   -4      -42        -31      -29
Net current transfers                        37       67        38        48    -4
Current account balance                     -25    -100         -66      -67
Financing items (net)                        24       39       106        99
Changes in net reserves                       0       61        -40      -32   | 4L
Memo:                                                                          I
Reserves including gold (USS milons)         67      347       144       157
Conversion rate (DEC, bcaMbUS$)           239.0   346.3       511.5    584.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996     1997
(USS millions)                                                                   Composition of total debt. 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        186    1,070      1,464    1.320
IBRD                                        0       22         0         0                    G: 41
IDA                                        11      223       576       561
Total debt service                           23      145        55        63
IBRD                                        0        6         0         0
IDA                                         0        2         9         8   | E:471        _3:561
Composkion of net resource flows
Official grants                            21       SO        73        80
Official creditors                          6       28        72        25
Private creditors                          55      -23         0         0
Foreign direct investrnent                  6        7         0         0
Portfolio equity                                                                                    c: 7 
World Bank program
Commitments                                13        7        50        76    A - IBRO                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               4       50        56        17     B - IDA    D - Other mutlateral   F - Prvate
Principal repayments                        0        4         4         4     C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                   4       46        -52       13
Interest payments                           0        4         5         4
Net transfers                               4       42        47         9
Development Economics                                                                                             10/1/98



A
iBRD 21462
(       DooonrBURKINAIN
* tx-.   B U R K I N A                  g   ~MAURITAN.A        
FASO ~   ~ ~ N           . NA-        ~     S~
-11 Q_g Pon~~~4 _'~~;)-' ~ .: ............                                                     .............. _MALI     NIGER
c o;5;; s,$ .r? -?S  ASO 
/    \  1\  (  /    MougourJ   ?8  <      8   < 2         loEzi \hc~.~r/  IGERIA
Boscs               Nsde (| ,D  f                r                    E            <
-   PEG  N BtSDR A  N  N  A jE:
*i ThecnscWnne he.1
0 ngo 2Grd
-10                                           .I                   X                                              10, -
Coepalac  The \ec                              I sasKan
saltstD TcemD                         ,,i hac as|e
lov mnes, cc  repamStNatefos
0  20   40      tO       ES       100
L ~~~~O, CPRL   98
fi C    E    N         \ RT  j      L)
Tba )b
_,  Sofouboua            (         -A      ;
/.   Blltta    0:\/                             i
TODGfO                                      P L A   EA  Ui
; RAILROADS                                             /;
_o /dI   ODS                  P                               7!
ROUTES PRINCIPALES    , Bou                          .takp meS  
FLEUVES                  opt  ea re 
REGION BOJNDARIES   maeJ   
E L~~~~~~IMITES DE REGION l/i~ 
__ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES'            /                                     .
FRONTIERES D'ETAT          {tJ                    
P a  li  ;                                       :
zed-r "dnds et #- eve y                           fO h ekbt.
zeenlUh fteWordEat.4                                                     Vodo gba
adhemertttlF--c                               \/_   Kt*  
oLttty 1-rt.'y ray                                oee)          t Asvie        vD2/ 
0 1,20      4,0      6, DO    B       100                                   I          eh       c 
KILOMVETERS ;E ktwf............-4t-its'- 
APRIL 1 989



