Page  1
CONFORMED COPY     
CREDIT NUMBER 3195 TO
Project Agreement
(Pilot Social Fund Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AGENCE D’APPUI AUX INITIATIVES DE BASE-SAVANES
Dated May 3, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3195 TO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 3, 1999 between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and AGENCE D’APPUI AUX INITIATIVES DE BASE-SAVANES (AGAIB-Savanes).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Togolese Republic (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to three 
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,800,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on conditions 
that AGAIB-Savanes agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a Convention to be entered into between the Borrower and 
AGAIB-Savanes, a part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement will be made available to AGAIB-Savanes on the terms and conditions 
set forth in said Convention; and
WHEREAS AGAIB-Savanes, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) AGAIB-Savanes declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this 
end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and AGAIB-Savanes shall otherwise agree, AGAIB-Savanes 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. AGAIB-Savanes shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. AGAIB-Savanes shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
AGAIB-Savanes Convention and the Operating Manual.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, AGAIB-Savanes shall not take or concur in any action which would have 
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the AGAIB-Savanes Convention 
and the Operating Manual or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) AGAIB-Savanes shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement, the AGAIB-Savanes Convention and 
the Operating Manual, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit;
(b)
AGAIB-Savanes shall promptly inform the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by AGAIB-Savanes of 
its obligations under this Agreement, the Convention and the Operating Manual; and
(c)
Without limitation upon the generality of the foregoing, AGAIB-Savanes 
shall participate fully in the reviews referred to in paragraph B.2 (b) of Schedule 4 
to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall: (a) furnish to the 
Borrower and the Association such reports as may be required for that purpose, and in 
such detail as the Borrower or the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
progress and status of the Project; (b) following each annual review, act promptly and 
diligently in order to take, or assist the Borrower in taking, any corrective action 
deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, 
or to implement, or assist the Borrower in implementing, such other measures as may 
have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the 
Project; and (c) take all measures on its part to organize, in conjunction with the 
Association and the Borrower, the workshop referred to in paragraph B.2 (e) of 
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of AGAIB-Savanes
Page  3
Section 3.01. (a) AGAIB-Savanes shall carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and environmental practices 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers.
(b)
AGAIB-Savanes shall ensure that the (i) the Regional Coordinator, the 
Head of Finance and Accounting and the coordinators for each of Parts A, B and C of 
the Project shall be appointed in accordance with the timetable specified in the 
Operating Manual; and (ii) the positions referred to in the preceding subparagraph 
shall be kept filled at all times by persons, whose qualifications and experience 
shall have been communicated to the Association and found to be acceptable.
Section 3.02. AGAIB-Savanes shall at all times operate and maintain its 
buildings, office space, equipment, vehicles and other property, and from time to 
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in 
accordance with sound technical, engineering, financial and environmental practices.
Section 3.03. AGAIB-Savanes shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association, for insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) AGAIB-Savanes shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, 
all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and 
to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures for and in 
connection with the carrying out of the Project.
(b) AGAIB-Savanes 
shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements), 
including those for 
the AGAIB-Savanes Special Account, for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
have its administrative, technical and managerial performance for 
each fiscal 
year audited by said auditors, having regard to the 
provisions of its statutes 
and by-laws, and of this Agreement, the 
AGAIB-Savanes Convention and the 
Operating Manual;
(iii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of 
its financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of 
such audit by said auditors of 
such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iv)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
Page  4
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02 (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
AGAIB-Savanes thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify AGAIB-Savanes of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, DC
 64145 (MCI)
For AGAIB-SAVANES:
B.P. 41
Dapaong
TOGO
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of AGAIB-Savanes, 
or by AGAIB-Savanes on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, 
may be taken or executed by the Regional Coordinator or such other person or persons 
as the Regional Coordinator shall designate in writing, and AGAIB-Savanes shall 
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  5
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Theodore Ahlers
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa
AGENCE D’APPUI AUX INITIATIVES DE BASE-SAVANES 
By /s/ Pascal A. Bodjona
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program 
A.
General
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, in implementing the Project 
AGAIB-Savanes shall: (i) apply criteria, policies, procedures and guidelines set out 
in the Operating Manual, and (ii) not amend, or waive, or permit to be amended or 
waived, the Operating Manual or any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the 
opinion of the Association, may materially and adversely affect the implementation of 
the Project. 
2.
AGAIB-Savanes shall operate under the overall control of a Board of Directors 
consisting of seven (7) members, including four (4) representatives of civil society 
and three (3) representatives of relevant technical ministries of the Borrower. 
3.
The Board of Directors shall appoint a Regional Coordinator, who shall, subject 
to the overall control of the Board of Directors, be responsible for the day to day 
management of activities under the Project. 
4.
Each Regional Screening Committee shall consist of five (5) members, including 
three (3) representatives of civil society and two (2) representatives of relevant 
technical ministries of the Borrower.
B.
Part A of the Project 
5.
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no Subproject shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless AGAIB-Savanes has 
determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance with the guidelines 
set forth in the Operating Manual, that the Subproject satisfies the eligibility 
criteria specified below and in more detail in the Operating Manual, which shall 
include, inter alia, the following:
(a)
the Subproject shall be initiated by a Beneficiary;
(b)
the Subproject shall be submitted to AGAIB-Savanes by an Implementing 
Agency;
(c)
the Subproject shall be for any of the types of infrastructure referred 
to in Part A of the Project;
(d)
the Subproject shall have been reviewed by the Borrower’s Ministry 
responsible for the particular sector within which the Subproject falls for its 
conformity with the relevant sector policies and applicable regulations and received a 
non-objection from that Ministry;
Page  6
(e)
the Subproject shall be economically, financially, environmentally and 
technically sound in accordance with the criteria/parameters  specified in the 
Operating Manual;
(f)
the Subproject shall not be considered for financing unless adequate 
arrangements are in place for the financing by the Beneficiary of maintenance and 
other incremental recurrent costs, if any; and
(g)
the Beneficiary shall provide at least 15% of the estimated Subproject 
costs in the form of land, buildings, cash, materials, labor or other services. 
6.
Procedures
(a)
Applications for Grants to finance Subprojects shall be prepared by 
Beneficiaries, and submitted to AGAIB-Savanes, which shall, in the circumstances 
described in subparagraph A.1(d) of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement, 
refer them to the Regional Screening Committee.
(b)
Subject to the decision of the Regional Screening Committee, and to 
approval guidelines prescribed in the Operating Manual, applications for Grants shall 
be approved by the Regional Coordinator. 
7.
Terms and Conditions of Grants made for Subprojects
Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to Financing Agreements, to be 
concluded between AGAIB-Savanes and the Implementing Agency, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, which, inter alia, shall include the 
following:
(a)
financing shall be on a grant basis;
(b)
the obligation to carry out the Subproject in accordance with the 
Operating Manual, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
environmental, technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate 
records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Subproject;
(c)
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement; and (ii) such goods, 
works and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
(d)
the right of AGAIB-Savanes to inspect, by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, work sites, plants and 
construction included in the Subproject, the operations thereof and any relevant 
records and documents;
(e)
the right of AGAIB-Savanes to obtain all information as AGAIB-Savanes or 
the Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operations and 
financial conditions of the Subproject; and
(f)
the right of AGAIB-Savanes to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Implementing Agency to use the proceeds of the Grant  for the Subproject upon failure 
by the Implementing Agency to perform any of its obligations under its Financing 
Agreement.
8.
AGAIB-Savanes shall submit to the Association, for its review or approval, as 
the case may be:
(a)
before the beginning of each Project Year, a proposed annual work 
program, including a proposed budget and financing plan, for the forthcoming fiscal 
year; and
(b)
semiannual and annual progress reports on the status of the Project, 
including regular beneficiary feedback reports and Subprojects completion reports. 
Page  7
C.
Part B of the Project
Any use of the proceeds of the Credit for the benefit of formal or informal 
financial institutions shall be in accordance with the criteria set forth in 
paragraphs 9 and 10 below:
9.
No informal financial institution shall benefit from the provision of technical 
advisory services and training or the acquisition of equipment and materials eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless AGAIB-Savanes has determined, 
on the basis of an appraisal, that the informal financial institution satisfies the 
eligibility criteria specified below which shall include, inter alia, the following:
(a)
the financial institution shall have been carrying out its activities for 
two (2) years at least;
(b)
the financial institutions shall have thirty (30) clients and members at 
least, the majority of which shall be women; and
(c)
the financial institution shall maintain written records and accounts 
albeit in simplified manner, and prepare financial statements.
10.
No formal financial institution shall benefit from social intermediation 
services eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless AGAIB-Savanes 
has determined, on the basis of an appraisal, that the formal financial institution 
satisfies the eligibility criteria specified below, which shall include, inter alia, 
the following:
(a)
the financial institution shall have been carrying out financial 
activities for three (3) years at least, and shall have a competent staff;
(b)
the financial institution shall have maintained or published, in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, its financial statements for the last 
three (3) fiscal years; and
(c)
the financial institution shall offer financial services appropriate to 
low income clients.
