Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3195 TO
Development Credit Agreement
(Pilot Social Fund Project)
between
TOGOLESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 3, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3195 TO 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 3, 1999, between TOGOLESE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
The Project will be carried out in the Savanes Region of the Borrower by 
Agence d’Appui aux Initiatives de Base-Savanes (AGAIB-Savanes) with the Borrower's 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to 
AGAIB-Savanes as a grant, a part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this 
Agreement;
(C)
The Project will be carried out in the Maritime Region of the Borrower by 
Agence d’Appui aux Initiatives de Base-Maritime (AGAIB-Maritime) with the Borrower's 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to 
AGAIB-Maritime, as a grant, a part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this 
Agreement; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the following Agreements of even date herewith, namely the Project 
Agreement between the Association and the Agence d’Appui aux Initiatives de 
Base-Savanes (AGAIB-Savanes) and the Project Agreement between the Association and the 
Agence d’Appui aux Initiatives de Base-Maritime (AGAIB-Maritime);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
“12.
“Participating Country” means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution 
No. 183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and “Participating Countries” means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“AGAIB-Maritime Convention” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and AGAIB-Maritime pursuant to Section 3.05 (a) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any 
schedules to the AGAIB-Maritime Convention; 
(b)
“AGAIB-Maritime Project Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Association and AGAIB-Maritime of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
AGAIB-Maritime Project Agreement; 
(c)
“AGAIB-Maritime” means Agence d’Appui aux Initiatives de Base-Maritime, a 
non-profit association established and operating under the Borrower’s laws and 
regulations pursuant to its statutes dated May 13, 1998, (the AGAIB-Maritime Statutes) 
and the Récépissé referred to in Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement;
(d)
“AGAIB-Savanes Convention” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and AGAIB-Savanes pursuant to Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the 
AGAIB-Savanes Convention; 
(e)
“AGAIB-Savanes Project Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Association and AGAIB-Savanes of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
AGAIB-Savanes Project Agreement; 
(f)
“AGAIB-Savanes” means Agence d’Appui aux Initiatives de Base-Savanes, a 
Page  3
non-profit association established and operating under the Borrower’s laws and 
regulations pursuant to its statutes dated April 28, 1998, (the AGAIB-Savanes 
Statutes) and the Récépissé  (as hereinafter defined) referred to in Section 6.01 (d) 
of this Agreement;
(g)
“Beneficiary” means a community group, to which, or for the benefit of 
which, a Grant (as hereinafter defined) is made, or proposed to be made; 
(h)
“CFA Franc or “Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine” means the 
currency of the Borrower; 
(i)
“Convention” means either or both the AGAIB-Savanes Convention and the 
AGAIB-Maritime Convention; 
(j)
“Financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
AGAIB-Savanes or AGAIB-Maritime and an Implementing Agency (as hereinafter defined) 
for the purpose of carrying out a Subproject (as hereinafter defined)  under Part A.1 
or Part A.2, respectively, of the Project; 
(k)
“Grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made, by AGAIB-Savanes or 
AGAIB-Maritime to finance a Subproject under Part A.1 or Part A.2, respectively, of 
the Project; 
(l)
“Implementing Agency” means a village committee or association, or a NGO 
(as hereinafter defined) or other entity, responsible for the implementation of a 
Subproject under Part A of the Project for, or on behalf of, a Beneficiary;
(m)
“Maritime Region” means the administrative region in the territory of the 
Borrower so denominated and established pursuant to Law No. 81-8 of June 23, 1981; 
(n)
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization established and operating in 
the territories of the Borrower; 
(o)
“Operating Manual” means the manual referred to in Part A (b) of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement and setting out, inter alia, criteria, procedures and guidelines 
for the administration, promotion, appraisal and supervision of Subprojects, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the 
Operating Manual; 
(p)
“Project Account” means either or both the accounts referred to in 
Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement; 
(q)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
May 26, 1998 and June 11, 1998 between the Borrower and the Association; 
(r)
“Project Year” means the twelve-month period beginning from the Effective 
Date and ending twelve months thereafter (the First Project Year), and any 
twelve-month period beginning at the end of the First Project Year, or the end of 
subsequent Project Years;
(s)
“Récépissé” means the Borrower’s decision granting to AGAIB-Savanes and 
AGAIB-Maritime, the status of a public interest association in accordance with 
applicable laws of the Borrower, and issued pursuant to Section 6.01(d) of this 
Agreement; 
(t)
“Regional Coordinator” means the Regional Coordinator referred to in 
paragraph A.3 of the respective Schedule of AGAIB-Savanes and AGAIB-Maritime Project 
Agreements; 
(u)
“Regional Screening Committee” means the screening committee (Comité 
régional d’approbation) set up both in the Maritime Region and the Savanes Region of 
the Borrower, in charge of the screening of Subprojects (as hereinafter defined) at 
the regional level when the amount of the corresponding Grant (as hereinafter defined) 
is to be in excess of the amounts referred to in Part A (d) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
Page  4
(v)
“Savanes Region” means the administrative region in the territory of the 
Borrower so denominated and established pursuant to Law No. 81-8 of June 23, 1981; 
(w)
“Special Account” means either or both the accounts referred to in 
Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement; 
(x)
“Subproject” means a specific activity financed, or proposed to be 
financed, through Grants made under Part A of the Project; and 
(y)
“Unité de Coordination Nationale” means the coordinating structure to be 
established by AGAIB-Savanes and AGAIB-Maritime pursuant to paragraph B.3 of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project (other than 
Part A thereof) described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be paid) by AGAIB-Savanes or AGAIB-Maritime on account of withdrawals made 
for the benefit of a Beneficiary under a Grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods, 
works and services required for a Subproject to be financed under Part A of the 
Project, and in respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFA Francs: (i)
one special deposit account, in the name of AGAIB-Savanes 
(hereinafter referred to as the AGAIB-Savanes Special Account); and (ii)
one special 
deposit account, in the name of AGAIB-Maritime (hereinafter referred to as the 
AGAIB-Maritime Special Account). The Special Accounts shall be maintained in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against setoff, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, each Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Page  5
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 1 and September 1 commencing September 1, 2009 and ending March 1, 2039. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 1, 2019 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.09. AGAIB-Savanes and AGAIB-Maritime are designated as representatives 
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be 
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause AGAIB-Savanes and AGAIB-Maritime to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the AGAIB-Savanes Project Agreement and the 
Page  6
AGAIB-Maritime Project Agreement all the respective obligations of AGAIB-Savanes and 
AGAIB-Maritime therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable AGAIB-Savanes and AGAIB-Maritime to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall assist AGAIB-Savanes and AGAIB-Maritime in the carrying out of the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall take steps, or cause AGAIB-Savanes and 
AGAIB-Maritime to take steps, to: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by AGAIB-Savanes 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the AGAIB-Savanes Project Agreement and by AGAIB-Maritime 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the AGAIB-Maritime Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. (a)  The Borrower shall conclude: 
(i)
an agreement with AGAIB-Savanes (hereinafter referred to as the 
AGAIB-Savanes 
Convention), under which it shall transfer to 
AGAIB-Savanes part of the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated from 
time to time to Categories 1(a), 2(a), 
3(a), 4(a) and 5(a) of the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement on a 
non-reimbursable basis and on such other terms and conditions 
as 
shall be acceptable to the Association; including, but without being 
limited to, the provisions set forth in Part A of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and 
(ii)
an agreement with AGAIB-Maritime (hereinafter referred to as the 
AGAIB-Maritime Convention), under which it shall transfer to 
AGAIB-Maritime 
part of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from 
time to time to Categories 
1(b), 2(b), 3(b), 4(b) and 5(b) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement on a 
non-reimbursable basis and on such other terms and 
conditions as 
shall be acceptable to the Association; including, but without 
being 
limited to, the provisions set forth in Part A of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the respective AGAIB-Savanes 
and AGAIB-Maritime Conventions in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except 
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the AGAIB-Savanes or AGAIB-Maritime Conventions or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.06
Without any limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Page  7
Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purposes of making available its counterpart 
contribution to the financing of the Project: 
(a)
open and thereafter maintain two accounts in CFAF (the Project Accounts) 
in a commercial bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. The 
first Project Account shall be in the name of, and operated and maintained by 
AGAIB-Savanes (hereinafter referred to as the AGAIB-Savanes Project Account) and the 
second Project Account shall be in the name of, and operated and maintained by 
AGAIB-Maritime (hereinafter referred to as the AGAIB-Maritime Project Account). 
(b)
deposit into each Project Account an initial contribution of forty seven 
million two hundred eighty two thousand CFAF (CFAF 47,282,000). 
(c)
thereafter, replenish each Project Account at least on a quarterly basis, 
or whenever its balance shall be less than the equivalent of eleven million eight 
hundred twenty thousand CFAF (CFAF 11,820,000).
(d)
ensure that amounts deposited into each Project Account shall be used 
exclusively to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services for the Project in addition to those 
financed from the proceeds of the Credit. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year 
in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
including those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year 
the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested, including a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Page  8
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
AGAIB-Savanes shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the AGAIB-Savanes Project Agreement;
(b)
AGAIB-Maritime shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the AGAIB-Maritime Project Agreement; and 
(c)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that AGAIB-Savanes or AGAIB-Maritime will be able to perform their 
respective obligations under the AGAIB-Savanes Project Agreement and the 
AGAIB-Maritime Project Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a 
period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the 
Association to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the AGAIB-Savanes Convention has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and AGAIB-Savanes and the AGAIB-Maritime Convention has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and AGAIB-Maritime; 
(b)
the AGAIB-Savanes Project Account and the AGAIB-Maritime Project Account  
have been opened and the initial contributions referred to in Section 3.06 (b) of this 
Agreement have been deposited therein;
(c)
the Borrower has employed the independent auditors referred to in Section 
4.01 of this Agreement and Sections 4.01 of the AGAIB-Savanes Project Agreement and 
the AGAIB-Maritime Project Agreement, respectively, in accordance with the provisions 
of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (d)
the Borrower has issued the 
Récépissé, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, and published it in 
its official gazette; 
(e)
AGAIB-Savanes and AGAIB-Maritime have each established an adequate 
financial management system, satisfactory to the Association, for purposes of the 
Project; and 
(f)
AGAIB-Savanes and AGAIB-Maritime have established the Unité de 
Coordination Nationale, acceptable to the Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a)
that the AGAIB-Savanes Project Agreement and the AGAIB-Maritime Project 
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by AGAIB-Savanes and AGAIB-Maritime, 
respectively, and are legally binding upon AGAIB-Savanes and AGAIB-Maritime, 
respectively, in accordance with their terms; and 
(b)
that the AGAIB-Savanes Convention and the AGAIB-Maritime Convention have 
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and AGAIB-Savanes and AGAIB-Maritime, 
respectively, and are legally binding upon the Borrower and AGAIB-Savanes and 
AGAIB-Maritime, respectively, in accordance with their terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  9
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate or on the date fifteen years after the date of this 
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of the Borrower responsible for Economy and Finance is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances
B.P. 387
Lomé
République Togolaise
Cable address:
Telex:
MINFIE
5286
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
TOGOLESE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Pascal A. Bodjona 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Theodore Ahlers 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Page  10
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Grants
100% of amounts
for Subprojects
disbursed
(a)
under Part A.1
of the Project
600,000
(b)
under Part A.2
of the Project
600,000
(2)
Works under
100% of foreign
Part D of the Project
expenditures and 85%
of local expenditures
(a)
for AGAIB-Savanes
 50,000
(b)
for AGAIB-Maritime
 50,000
(3)
Equipment, vehicles,
100% of foreign
furniture and materials
expenditures and 85% 
under Parts B and D of the Project
of local expenditures
(a)
for AGAIB-Savanes
 75,000
(b)
for AGAIB-Maritime and
Unité de Coordination
Nationale
       150,000
(4)
Consultants’
100%
services, audit, training
and studies under
Parts B, C and D 
of the Project:
(a)
for AGAIB-Savanes
750,000
(b)
for AGAIB-Maritime and
Unité de Coordination
Nationale
900,000
(5)
Operating Costs
under Part D of the Project:
85%
(a)
for AGAIB-Savanes 
 75,000
(b)
for AGAIB-Maritime and
Unité de Coordination 
Nationale
       150,000
(6)
Refunding of
100,000
Amount due 
Project Preparation
pursuant to Section 
Advance
2.02(c) of this
Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
300,000
_______
TOTAL
     3,800,000
Page  11
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; 
and 
(c)
the term “operating costs” means the incremental operating costs arising 
under the Project on account of local contractual staff salaries, travel and other 
allowances; maintenance of buildings, office equipment and vehicles; office rental, 
materials and supplies; utilities, communications’ expenses and vehicle insurance.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and
(b)
in respect of a Grant unless the Grant has been made in accordance with 
the criteria, procedures and terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
paragraphs 5, 6, and 7 of the respective Schedule to the AGAIB-Savanes Project 
Agreement and the AGAIB-Maritime Project Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:  (i) goods and works 
under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (ii) consultants’ 
services (firms) under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) test the feasibility of a 
decentralized network of autonomous regional social funds in the territory of the 
Borrower and (b)  alleviate poverty and support social capital development, through 
the provision of financial and technical resources to support community initiated 
activities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Social and Economic Infrastructure
Provision of Grants for the financing of the following activities in: (1) the 
Savanes Region; and (2) the Maritime Region, of the Borrower: identification, 
appraisal, design, implementation, supervision and evaluation of community-initiated 
activities relating to the construction and rehabilitation of essential local economic 
and social infrastructure, including but not limited to: (i) primary education; (ii) 
basic health services; (iii) water supply and sanitation systems; (iv) rural feeder 
roads, small bridges and other basic transport infrastructure; and (v) markets and 
storage facilities.
Part B:
Financial Intermediation
Improving the efficiency, safety, capacity and outreach of local institutions 
involved in decentralized financial intermediation through the provision of technical 
advisory services and training, and acquisition of equipment, vehicles and materials.
Page  12
Part C:
Capacity Building for Grassroots Community Groups
1.
Enhancing the technical, organizational, managerial and strategic capabilities 
of grassroots community groups through the provision of technical advisory services 
and training.
2.
Enhancing the capabilities of grassroots community groups to use and maintain 
the infrastructure and facilities financed under Part A of the Project through the 
provision of technical advisory services and training.
Part D:
Institutional Arrangements
1.
Construction and/or rehabilitation of office space, and acquisition of 
equipment, vehicles, furniture and materials for AGAIB-Savanes, AGAIB-Maritime and 
Unité de Coordination Nationale and the provision of technical advisory services 
therefor.
2.
Carrying out of monitoring and evaluation of activities under the Project 
through the provision of technical advisory services.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by  June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in 
September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A, (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and "member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and "Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
(b)
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more but less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
Page  13
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Community Participation 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Part C, goods and 
works required for Part A of the Project shall be procured in accordance with 
paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines  and as specified in the Operating Manual.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project (other than Part A thereof) 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all 
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall 
have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to (a) each contract for goods or works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more; and (b) the first three Grants to be awarded by 
AGAIB-Savanes or AGAIB-Maritime, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
of this Section II. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for management of Subprojects under Part A of the Project may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for small project evaluation under Part D of the Project estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Page  14
Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for project management, capacity building, project evaluation and third 
party post review under Part D of the Project shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4.
Least-cost Selection Services for project auditing under Part D of the Project 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
Parts A through D of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
other than for services for project evaluation under Part D of the Project, estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $100,000, 
or any amendment to any such contract that would result in a revised value equivalent 
to $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)), and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, or any amendment to 
any such contract that would result in a revised value equivalent to $50,000 or more, 
the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. 
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply provided that the exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms 
of reference for each such contract, assignments of a critical nature as reasonably 
determined by the Bank, amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
or amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the 
contract value to $ 50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
A.
Main Provisions of the AGAIB-Savanes Convention and the AGAIB-Maritime 
Convention
1.
Each Convention shall include, but without being limited to, provisions to the 
following effect: 
Page  15
(a)
the amount allocated to Subprojects shall be used exclusively to finance 
Subprojects on a grant basis; 
(b)
no Subproject shall be considered for financing under the Project except 
in accordance with the eligibility criteria, and terms and conditions, set forth in an 
Operating Manual adopted by AGAIB-Savanes and AGAIB-Maritime, as the case may be, and 
approved by the Borrower and the Association; 
(c)
goods, works and services required for the purposes of carrying out 
Subprojects under Part A of the Project shall be procured in accordance with the  
procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement and as detailed in the Operating 
Manual; 
(d)
any Grant in excess of the amounts specified in the Operating Manual 
shall be approved by the concerned Regional Screening Committee; and 
(e)
no Subproject shall be executed under Part A of the Project, unless a 
Financing Agreement has been concluded between the Implementing Agency and 
AGAIB-Savanes or AGAIB-Maritime, as the case may be, setting forth the respective 
obligations of the parties thereunder, including details of disbursement schedules and 
procurement procedures, and the amount of the relevant counterpart contribution.
2.
The AGAIB-Maritime Convention shall include provisions specifying: (i) the 
amounts  to be transferred by the Borrower to AGAIB-Maritime to cover the expenses 
related to the operation of Unité de Coordination Nationale in accordance with the 
provisions of this Agreement; and (ii) that AGAIB-Maritime shall be responsible for 
the financial management of such funds, including with respect to record-keeping in 
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the AGAIB-Maritime Project 
Agreement.
B.
Overall Project Implementation
1.
The Borrower shall ensure that: (i) its representatives on the respective Boards 
of AGAIB-Savanes and AGAIB-Maritime shall meet the qualifications requirements set 
forth in their respective statutes; and (ii) the Borrower’s concerned Ministries and 
agencies shall collaborate with AGAIB-Savanes, AGAIB-Maritime and Unité de 
Coordination Nationale to assist them in the implementation of the Project and, in 
particular, in ensuring consistent application of the Borrower’s sectoral policies.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
not later than the end of the First Project Year, and not later than the 
end of each Project Year thereafter, undertake, in conjunction with the Association 
and AGAIB-Savanes and AGAIB-Maritime, a joint annual review on all matters relating to 
the progress of the Project and, in particular the progress achieved by the Borrower 
and AGAIB-Savanes and AGAIB-Maritime during the current fiscal year, having regard to 
the monitoring indicators referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph;
(c)
not later than one month prior to each annual review, furnish to the 
Association, for its comments, a report in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the progress of the Project;
(d)
following each annual review, act promptly and diligently in order to 
take, or assist AGAIB-Savanes and AGAIB-Maritime in taking, any corrective action 
deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming identified in the implementation of the 
Project, or to implement, or assist AGAIB-Savanes and AGAIB-Maritime in implementing, 
such measures as may have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the 
objectives of the Project; and
(e)
promptly after the Effective Date, take all measures necessary on its 
part to organize, in conjunction with the Association and AGAIB-Savanes and 
AGAIB-Maritime, a workshop for the launching of the Project implementation which shall 
Page  16
cover, inter alia, disbursement and procurement procedures and detailed timetables for 
the implementation of the Project. 
3.
The Borrower shall cause AGAIB-Savanes and AGAIB-Maritime to establish the Unité 
de Coordination Nationale, a coordinating structure, acceptable to the Association, to 
ensure adequate coordination of the activities of AGAIB-Savanes and AGAIB-Maritime and 
assist them in liaising with donors and the ministries and agencies of the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means, in the case of the AGAIB-Savanes 
Special Account, Categories 1(a), 2(a), 3(a), 4(a) and 5(a) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and in the case of the AGAIB-Maritime 
Special Account, Categories 1(b), 2(b), 3(b), 4(b) and 5(b) set forth in same;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, and services required for the Project, as well as 
amounts paid or to be paid under Grants to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of 
this Schedule, equivalent, in the case of AGAIB-Savanes Special Account to CFAF 
100,000,000; and in the case of AGAIB-Maritime Special Account to CFAF 150,000,000; 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation for: 
(i)
AGAIB-Savanes Special Account shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to CFAF 
50,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Credit Account 
plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed 
the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000; 
(ii)
AGAIB-Maritime Special Account shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to 
75,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account 
plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for the 
Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
respective Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify.
Page  17
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the respective 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association 
from the 
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Parts of the Project related to 
that Special Account, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for that Special 
Account shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the respective Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
Page  18
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
