E847
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT IN POLAND
AS COMPARED TO
RELEVANT WORLD BANK POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Jerzy Jendroska
Malgorzata Koziarek
Urszula Rzeszot
Beata Wiszniewska
Regional Environmental Center for Central and Eastern Europe
December 2003



TABLE OF CONTENTS
1    Introduction and Disclaimer .................................................................4
2    Executive Summary                     ...........................................5
3    The Polish Legal Framework .................................................................8
3.1    Introduction .................................................................8
3.2    Application of EA .................................................................9
3.2.1     Strategic Environmental Assessment ...............................................................9
3.2.2    Environmental Impact Assessment .................................................................9
3.3    Public participation ................................................................  10
4    Institutional set-up  of the  Polish  system  ................................................................   12
4.1    EIA procedure for projects included in group 1 ..................................................... 13
4.2    EIA procedure for projects included in group 2 .   .................................................... 14
4.3    SEA procedure for plans and programs .      ............................................................... 15
5    Comparison of the Polish EA system with the World Bank procedures        ...      16
5.1    EA Application ................................................................  16
5.1.1    Environmental Impact Assessment ................................................................ 16
5.1.2     Strategic Environmental Assessment ............................................................. 19
5.2    Screening .........................................                           19
5.3    Scoping ........................................ ..                          20
5.4    Environmental assessment report             .       .       ............................... 20
5.5    Public participation and disclosure          .       .       .............................. 21
5.6    Quality control                  ........................................ 22
5.7    Monitoring ........................................ ..                       22
5.8    Minorities .........................................                         22
5.9    Resettlement and compulsory land acquisition         .    .     ........................ 22
5.10   Natural habitats                 ........................................ 23
5.11   Cultural heritage ..........................................                 23
5.12   The EA requirements of the two systems summarised ........................................ 24
6    Review   of Current EA   Practice  in  Poland  ................................................................   31
6.1    Explanation of approach taken .       ...............................................................  31
6.2    Survey design ................................................................  31
6.3    General comments on current practice .      ............................................................... 33
7    Summary of the Findings ................................................................  35
8    Supplement: Environmental Assessment in the Roads Sector             .   .   .     36
8.1    The Polish Legal Framework ................................................................  36
8.1.1    Categories of roads ................................................................  36
8.1.2    Roads subject to special EIA procedure ......................................................... 37
8.1.3    Roads subject to "general" ETA scheme: ........................................................ 37
8.2    Special procedure for siting and construction of roads and institutional set-up ..... 37
8.2.1    Special EIA procedure for national roads ...................................................... 40
8.3    Differences between special EIA and general EIA procedure         .   .   .  41
8.4    Comparison  with  the  W B   procedure  ................................................................   41
8.5    Review of EA Practice ................................................................  42
8.5.1    Special Roads Procedure Act ................................................................   43
ANNEXES                                         ....46
2



List of abbreviations
APC          Administrative Procedure Code
COM          Council of Ministers
CSI          Chief Sanitary Inspectorate
GDNRM        General Directorate of National Roads and Motorways
EA           Environmental Assessment
EIA          Environmental Impact Assessment
EPA          Environmental Protection Act
SEA          Strategic Environmental Assessment
EPLA         Environmental Protection Law
MOE          Ministry of Environment
MOI          Ministry of Infrastructure
MOH          Ministry of Health
PAA          Public Administration Authority
UN ECE       United Nations Economic Commission for Europe
WB           World Bank
3



1 Introduction and Disclaimer
The report was made for the World Bank to address the question whether the Polish
environmental assessment system as provided for in the Polish law and exercised in practice
can replace the Environmental Assessment procedures applied by the World Bank in Poland.
For the purpose of the analysis contained in the report the following World Bank documents
were taken into account as reference:
1. Operational Policy (OP)/Bank Procedure (BP) 4.01: Environmental Assessment
with Annexes A, B and C,
2. Environmental Assessment (BP 4.01) with Annexes A and C,
3. Emergency Recovery Assistance (OP 8.50),
4. Pest Management (OP 4.09),
5. Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
6. Natural Habitats (4.04)
The above were compared with the Polish EA legal framework, the main pillars of which
are:
1. the Environmental Protection Law of 27 April 2001 (Dz. U. 2001 No 62, item
627).
2. the Regulation of the Council of Ministers of 24 September 2002 on the
categories of projects that may have significant environmental impact and on the
criteria of screening projects for environmental assessment (Dz. U. 2002 No 179,
item 1490).
as well as its practical implementation examined by means of a survey among a limited
group of public administration representatives of different levels: national (Ministry of
Environment), regional (voivodships), county (poviats), municipal (gminas).
The authors did not have an access to sufficiently detailed data as to the character and
quantity of projects in which the World Bank was involved in Poland, which limited the
comparison of the two systems with regards to the practical dimension.
The work presented in this report was carried out in accordance with the terms of the contract.
the best professional practice within the scope, time and manpower limitations resulting from
the conditions of the contract. The report does not claim to provide a complete review of the
quality of environmental assessment in Poland.
4



2 Executive Summary
The report provides detailed information about the Polish EA legal framework as well as
insight into the current practice which may be used as reference for further analysis taking
into account the WB actual experience and practice in supporting specific types of projects in
Poland.
The Polish EA legalframework comprises the Environmental Protection Law, the relevant
Regulation of the Council of Ministers, and some other parts of legislation
The Polish EA Legal Framework is provided for mainly by the Environmental Protection Law
and the relevant Regulation of the Council of Ministers, however some aspects of EA are
regulated also in other parts of legislation. There are two different EA procedures: Strategic
Environmental Assessment applicable to plans, programs and policies both general and
sectoral and Environmental Impact Assessment applicable to specific development projects.
The development projects subject to EIA fall in either of two categories: Group 1, which
always require EIA report or Group 2 which may require EIA report.
All plans, programs, policies or projects which are subject to SEA or EIA are also subject to
public participation procedure. Draft documents including EA reports are made available to
the public for comments for the period of 21 days. The submitted comments and
recommendations have to be considered by the relevant authority, who has to refer to them in
the final documents, inform and justify how they have been addressed.
The institutional set-up of EA is built on two pillars: on of them is the competent authority
who is responsible for the overall EA process from start to end and for taking the decision (i.e.
is the one who would issue a development consent for a given type of project, or adopt a
given plan/programme/policy), and on the other one is the consulting authorities, who have to
be consulted by the competent authority during the EA process at screening and scoping
stages and who should agree on conditions for issuing a development consent at a decision
making stage.
The EA system is decentralized
Because decision making, involving authorization of particular projects or adoption of
plans/programs/policies is decentralized, so is the EA system. Therefore, depending on a
given project or plan/program/policy and a type of development consent being a subject to EA
procedure, the competent authority is usually on municipal or county level ; while the
consulting authority is on county, voivodship or national level.
The Polish EA legalframework and the World Bank safeguards considerably overlap
The review carried out for the purpose of this report demonstrates a considerable overlap of
the Polish EA legal framework on the one hand and the World Bank procedures and policies
on the other hand, revealing at the same time certain differences in approach and measures
taken.
1. Both the Polish system and World Bank use different categories to qualify projects
depending on the extent of their environmental impact.
* Polish system defines two categories: Group 1, always requiring EIA, including
rojects which may have significant impact on the environment because ofbeing
5



large scale or in spite ofbeing small scale; and Group 2, which may require EIA,
including projects of smaller scale and whose impact depends also on the local
condition of the environment; Plans/programs/policies of national or regional level
which are provided for by law, always requiring SEA, unless screened negatively.
* World Bank Category A, requiringfull EA, including mainly large scale
developments, Category B - requiring EA, but with scope corresponding to the
limited environmental impact of the project, including mainly "small scale"
developments, and Category C where no EA is required. There is no separate
category for programs.
2. In the World Bank procedure the scope and requirements of EA depend on the
project category. In the Polish system the general scope and requirements of EIA are
uniform for all projects that are qualified as requiring EIA reports, i.e., all projects of
Group 1 and some projects of Group 2 (in case of the latter the need of an EIA report
is decided on case-by-case basis during the screening phase of EIA). WB program-
type of projects would be subject to SEA, however, only if they were of regional or
national level and provided by law. In any case, though their "subprojects", i.e.
specific investment projects would be subject to EIA procedure.
3. The Polish requirements for the content of EA report are in all cases similar to those
for the content for EA report of WB Category A projects. However there are some
types of information required by WB which do not have equivalent provisions in the
Polish system, though in some cases are partially covered: Capacity Development and
Training, Implementation and Costs Estimates (related to Environmental Management
Plan), specific requirements related to Pest Management Plan, description of policy,
legal and administrative framework, social aspects, transboundary and global aspects.
4. Public participation is initiated at a later stage under the Polish procedure, as the
initial consultation is not required.
5. Quality control is provided for in the Polish system by obligatory involvement of
consulting authorities, public participation and EA Commissions.
6. Post-project monitoring is not a mandatory requirement, however might relevant
obligations may be included in the development consent.
7. The minority related criteria do not have an equivalent in the Polish system.
8. The WB policies related to natural habitats are sufficiently reflected in the Polish
legal framework.
Insight into the current EA practice in Poland: there is both know-how and manpower on
national and regional level which allows for a thorough quality review while institutional
capacity at municipal and county level requires some strengthening
In order to get an insight into the quality of actual EA practice in Poland a short investigation
was carried out by means of a survey targeting a limited group of relevant PAA
representatives at all levels involved in EA. The total of 19 interviews were held with 7
municipalities (out of2489), 5 counties (out of some 373), 5 regions (out of 16) and with 2
Ministry of Environment officials. They answered 8 questions related to the number of EA
proceedings handled with regards to different categories of projects and to
plans/policies/programs, duration of the proceedings, number of objections to EA reports,
number of reports referred to EA Commissions, number of proceedings which involved
comments from the public, any additional requirements (e.g. of financing institutions) taken
into account, major problems encountered in the daily practice.
6



The sample taken was too limited to be considered as representative for county and municipal
levels, yet it provided an indication of actual trends.
The survey revealed that on national and regional level there is both know-how and
manpower which allows for a thorough quality review. In the case of major developments
requiring mandatory EIA where opinion of regional (voivodship) authorities has to be
obtained it is possible to judge quality control as adequate and reliable.
At the same time decentralization of decision-making resulted in great shift of powers and
responsibilities to municipal (gmina) and county (poviat) levels. The bigger burden has not
always been matched with increased capacity, especially sufficiently qualified staff is often
lacking. The gap is to some extent matched by the involvement of consulting authorities at the
screening and scoping and EA report review stages. Nonetheless it must be admitted that with
regards to developments for which the need of EIA report is decided at the screening stage the
practice is relatively weaker, as such developments are usually handled by municipalities and
counties.
Public participation practice has a lot of potential for improvement and currently very few
actors of the EA procedure appreciate fully the opportunities for quality control it may
provide.
Poland has a special legalframework for siting and development of national roads and
roads sited in cities having county (poviat) status, which was introduced to simplify project
development process in the roads sector. Although it provides lower level of environmental
protection and public participation compared to generalprocedure, it is generally
compliant with the WB EA procedures and policies. However, as it was adopted only in
March 2003 it is too early make ajudgement about its practical impacts.
The report contains a Supplement focusing particularly on EA in the roads sector. It explains
the special EA procedure as provided for by the Special Road Procedure Act adopted in
March 2003 and gives a short review of current practice illustrated with a few recent cases.
Although the special EA procedure imposes certain limitations on public participation
compared to general regulations, yet it leaves room for the public involvement in EA
proceedings, especially at the stage of land use plans and policies development and retains the
requirement to provide the public with access to information. The provisions related to
compulsory land acquisition secure the rights of the owners to extent which remains well
within the standards appropriate for a democratic country ruled by law. However, the actual
effect of the Act on the practice will be known only many months later.
7



3 The Polish Legal Framework
3.1 Introduction
The environmental assessment (EA) law in Poland has been a result of a long development
process [please refer to Annex I for more information]. Recent changes in the EA law in
Poland have been introduced with a view to make it compatible with the respective
international obligations, in particular with the EIA Directive 337/19851 (as amended) and
SEA Directive 2001/422. as well as with the two UN ECE Conventions: of 1991 on EIA in
transboundary context (Espoo Convention) and of 1998 on access to information, public
participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters (Aarhus
Convention).
Currently, the basic legal framework for EA is provided for by the Act of 27 April 200 1-
Environmental Protection Law (Dz. U. 2001 No 62, item 627). This Act (EPLA) is a code-
like, extensive piece of legislation (442 Articles on 110 pages) which regulates all horizontal
issues (including chapters on access to environmental information, on public participation, on
strategic environmental assessment and on EIA) as well as some sectoral substantive issues
(namely: air and noise control). The EA-relevant provisions of the EPLA include:
* principle of prevention (Article 6.1),
* principle of precaution (Article 6.2),
* principle of integration of environmental considerations into sectoral policies (Article
8),
* principle of public participation (Article 10),
* public participation procedure (Articles 31-39)
* SEA procedure (Articles 40-45),
* EIA procedure (Articles 46-57),
* transboundary procedure (Articles 58 - 70),
* substantive requirements for environmental protection in land use and development
(Articles 71-73),
* EA Commissions (Articles 394-399).
In addition to the EPLA, a number of other laws and regulations set out some details of
relevance to the Bank policies. Arguably the most important one is the Regulation of the
Council of Ministers of 24 September 2002 on the categories of projects that may have
significant environmental impact and on the criteria of screening projects for environmental
assessment (Dz. U. 2002 No 179, item 1490).
1 Council Directive 85/337/EEC of 27 June 1985 on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private
projects on the environment
2 Directive 2001/42/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 June 2001 on the assessment of the
effects of certain plans and programmes on the environment
8



3.2 Application of EA
The EA law in Poland consists of two different procedures:
- EA for plans, programs and policies (Strategic Environmental Assessment - SEA)
- EA for concrete development projects (Environmental Impact Assessment - EIA)
The EA report prepared under SEA procedure is called "environmental prognosis", while the
one prepared under EIA is called "environmental impact report". In both cases the
requirements for the report are regulated in EPLA, except for motorways and national roads,
where the requirements for the environmental report are regulated in relevant laws.
3.2.1 Strategic Environmental Assessment
Strategic documents subject to SEA are divided into two broad categories:
* "general" strategic documents - which are indicated clearly by the EPLA and always
require SEA procedure,
* "sectoral" strategic documents, which are referred to in the EPLA only in general terms
and require screening [see Screening below].
,,General: strategic documents which require SEA are:
-  draft concept of the national land-use policy,
-  draft land-use plans (regional and local ones),
-  draft regional development strategies.
"Sectoral" strategic documents which require SEA are:
-  draft policies, strategies, plans or programmes -
- in the fields of: industry, energy, transport, telecommunications, water management,
waste management, forestry, agriculture, fisheries, tourism and land use,
preparation of which
- on national and regional (voivodship) level,
- by public administration authorities,
is clearly provided for by law.
3.2.2 Environmental Impact Assessment
EIA in Poland is linked to different decision-making processes, which involve decisions
required to authorize particular projects, namely:
* siting conditions (planning permissions)
* construction permits
* mining licences
* water permits
- for constructing water facilities
- for underground abstraction
- for agricultural use of wastewater
* decisions on siting for motorways and national roads
* restructuring of rural land holdings
* consents for works related to water regulation and flood protection
* consents for changing forests into arable land
9



Categories of projects subject to EIA (so called projects that may have significant
environmental impact) are divided into two broad groups:
* those which always require EIA report (so called Group 1 projects),
* those which may require EIA report (so called Group 2 projects).
The already mentioned Regulation of September 2002 lists categories of projects belonging to
both Groups, as well as criteria for screening of the Group 2 projects. The entire scheme is
modeled after the EIA Directive and its Annex I and Annex II projects.
3.3 Public participation
The EPLA provides for a set of procedural rules concerning public participation. These rules,
modelled on Art.6 of the Aarhus Convention, work like a Lego piece that can be build into
various procedures. Most of them apply both in case of project related decisions and in
preparation of strategic decisions (i.e. plans, programs, policies and strategies). The Act
requires these public participation rules to be applied in relation to project related decisions
which require an EIA as well as in preparation of plans, programs, policies and
strategies which require an SEA. Besides SEA and EIA procedures those rules apply to a
number of other procedures, namely:
-  integrated permit (IPPC) procedure,
-  adopting safety programs in relation to accidents control, and
- permitting procedures related to Genetically Modified Organisms ( GMO); for
contained use, deliberate release, marketing, transfer and export  of GMO
products.
Public administration authorities responsible for preparing the document subject to SEA or
issue a decision concerning project subject to EIA shall notify the public about the
commencement of the procedure, availability of relevant documents for inspection as well as
about the possibility of submitting comments and recommendations within 21 days since the
announcement date. All persons, natural and legal, regardless of their nationality, citizenship
and domicile, shall have the right to submit comments and recommendations. The authority
has the obligation to consider these comments and recommendations.
The authority should make a statement of reasons for its strategic decisions (plans, programs,
policies, strategies) and project related decisions and include information about comments and
recommendations and how they were used within the decision. Detailed information about
those comments and final versions of documents should be placed in a publicly accessible
record of documents, and the public have to be notified about it.
The notification of the public, according to the Act, shall be provided by placing the information
on the notice board at the seat of the authority which is responsible for the matter and bill-posting
in the vicinity of the proposed project; and where the seat of the responsible authority is located
in a community other than the community which is relevant in terms of location given the subject
of the notification, also by a publication in the local press or in a manner commonly used in the
locality or localities which are relevant given the subject of the notification.
The notification of the public shall be provided also by placing the information on the www
homepage of the authority responsible for making the decision if the authority has such a
homepage.
10



On top of the above public participation based on "every person" principle Polish law
grants also special rights to environmental NGOs. In particular, acting in public interest,
they have similar rights like persons having individual legal interests: they can question
witnesses and experts, and also appeal and challenge decisions at court.
11



4 Institutional set-up of the Polish system
The EA system in Poland is decentralized, involving all administration levels: national
(Ministry of Environment), regional (voivodship), county (poviat) and municipal (gmina).
The roles of the different levels in the system are outlined in Survey design below.
The major actor in the EA system is the competent authority, responsible for EA
proceedings. The competent authority according to EPLA regulations is the same
organization which is responsible for the whole procedure aiming at issuing a development
consent or adopting a plan/program being a subject to EA assessment (eg. siting conditions,
building permit, land use development plan). Competent authorities are indicated in separate
legislation pieces (eg. for siting conditions or land-use development plans in the Act on Land
Use, for construction permit is the Building Law Act). As the decision making system is
decentralized, major development consents are in general the responsibility of municipal
(gmina) authorities (eg. siting decision, local land-use development plans) and county (poviat)
authorities (eg. building permit, water permit), while responsibilities on regional and national
levels concern more important developments or plans/programs.
Competent authorities are supported during the EA proceedings by consulting authorities
responsible for consulting and approving of final decisions taken. Consulting authorities
are clearly indicted in EPLA.
In EIA procedure, consulting authorities are:
-  county (poviat) authorities for Group 2 projects;
-  regional (voivodship) authorities for Group 16 projects;
-  County Sanitary Inspector (poviat level) for both groups for siting conditions and
building permit;
-  Chief Sanitary Inspector (national level) for motorways siting permit.
In SEA procedure, consulting authorities are:
-  regional (voivodship) authorities for local and regional land-use plans and
plans/programs developed on a regional level
-  Minister of Environment for plans/programs developed on national level
-  Chief Sanitary Inspector for plans/programs developed on national level.
The links between the different institutional actors of the EA procedures (EIA and SEA) are
explained in the tables below.
12



4.1 EIA procedure for projects included in group 1
Applicant             Competent authority          Consulting authorities   The public
(health and environmental)
Scoping (optional, depen s on the applicant)
Submits an application
for scoping +
information about the
project to the competent
authority                              .
Files the application
Asks the consulting authorities
for an opinion on the scope of
EA report
Prepare opinions on the
scope of the EIA report
Prepares the decision on the
scope for the applicant
Prepares an EIA report
EIA report review
Submits to the competent
authority, an application
for a development
consent + EIA report
Files the application,                                In 21 days the
commences the EIA                                     public may submit
proceedings, including:                               comments and
-   public notice                                     recommendations
Asks the consulting authorities  set conditions for authorizing
for an approval of a        the project and approve it,
development consent, attaching: subject to those conditions
- application and EIA report
Reviews:
-   the EIA report
-   comments from the public
Participates in a public  Organizes a public hearing                        May participate in a
hearing               (optional)                                            public hearing
Issues a development consent
In case a transboundary impact is involved the authority initiates a parallel transboundary EIA, which is a
separate, complementary process not covered by this table.
If the case is complicated and raises doubts the consulting authorities may earlier submit it to the relevant EA
Commission for review.
13



4.2 EIA procedure for projects included in group 2
Applicant              Competent authority         |Consulting authorities  The public
l (health and
| environmental)
Screening and Scoping
Submits an application
for a permit +
information about the
project to the competent
authority
Files the application and
commences the EIA proceedings
Asks the consulting authorities  Prepare opinions on the
whether EIA report is necessary  necessity of an EIA report
and in case it is for its scope  and its scope if relevant
Prepares a decision on the
necessity of an EIA report - and
its scope, if relevant
If the decision says that the EIA
report is not needed - the
competent authority ends the EIA
procedure and issues a permit
based on available information
If the decision says the EIA report
is necessary - the competent
authority continues the EIA
procedure and the applicant has to
prepare the EIA report
Prepares an EIA report
EIA report review
Submits to the competent
authority, an application
for a permit + EIA report
-   Files the application, and                       In 21 days the
notifies the public                               public may submit
comments and
recommendations
Asks the consulting authorities for set conditions for
an approval of the development  authorizing the project and
consent, attaching:           approve it, subject to those
- application and EIA report  conditions"
Reviews:
-   the EIA report
-   comments from the public
Participates in a public  Organizes a public hearing                        May participate in a
hearing               (optional)                                            public hearing
Issues a development consent
In case a transboundary impact is involved the authority initiates a parallel transboundary EIA, which is a
separate, complementary process not covered by this table.
If the case is complicated and raises doubts the consulting authorities may earlier submit it to the relevant EA
Commission for review
14



4.3 SEA procedure for plans and programs
Competent authority             Consulting authorities (health and  The public
Ienvironmental),
Screening
Starts preparing a plan or program,
which is subject to SEA procedure
Optionally may agree with       Consult and have a say whether
consulting authorities that SEA  plan/program could be adopted
procedure is not necessary      without SEA procedure
If the decision says the SEA procedure is not needed - the competent authority prepares and adopt plan/progra7m|
If the decision says the SEA procedure report is necessary - the competent authority starts the SEA procedure
Scoping (not conductedfor local land use plans)
Consults with the consulting      Consult and approve the scope and
authorities scope and level of details  level of details of the SEA report
of the SEA report
Prepares plan/program and SEA
report
SEA report review
Notifies the public about the SEA
proceedings
Makes available to the public:                                  In 21 days the public may submit
-   draft plan/program                                      comments and recommendations
- SEA report
Asks the consulting authorities for an  Comment on the plan/program and
opinion of the plan/program,      SEA report
attaching:
- draft plan/program
- SEA report
Reviews draft plan/program,
considering
-   the SEA report
-   comments from consulting
authorities
-   comments from the public
Organizes a public hearing (optional)                           May participate in a public hearing
Presents the plan/program for
adoption to the relevant
municipal/regional/national
council/parliament
15



5 Comparison of the Polish EA system with the World
Bank procedures
5.1 EA Application
5.1.1 Environmental Impact Assessment
Under the Polish system, the classification of projects which are subject to EIA procedure
follows the one adopted by the European Union. The relevant EU Directive describes
types of projects in a very detailed way, very often including not only the type of project but
also its size. Basically the list of projects refers to new developments, however modifications
and upgrading are also treated as a new development under some conditions.
A demonstrative comparison of types of projects which undergo EA procedure in the Polish
and World Bank systems is presented in Annex II.
Group 1 includes a list of projects, which may have significant impact on the environment,
and which always require an EIA report. The group lists specific types of industrial,
agricultural, and infrastructural developments which are large scale or involve activities
which could influence the environment even being small scale (e.g. management of asbestos,
nuclear energy developments, hazardous waste management).
Group 2 includes a list of projects, which also may have significant impact on the
environment, but for which EIA report is not always required. A big number of project
types listed in Group 1 is repeated in Group 2, while what makes them different is scale.
Apart from specific types of projects (industrial, agricultural, infrastrucural etc.) the Group 2
includes also land development projects such as: change of land use, development of
industrial or urban/housing estates etc. The impact of a Group 2 project depends on the scale
of the development and conditions of the environment in the planned location of the
development. The competent authorities are responsible for deciding whether for issuing a
development consent they need conclusions from EIA report. In order to facilitate that process
the regulation includes also a set of selection criteria, which are listed below:
-  project characteristics (the size of the project, the cumulation with other projects,
the use of natural resources, the production of waste, pollution and nuisances, the risk
of accidents, having regard in particular to substances or technologies used)
-  project location, considering potential environmental threats, taking into account:
existing land use, relative abundance, quality and regenerative capacity of natural
resources in the area, values of natural environment and landscape, conditions of the
local land-use plans, paying particular attention to the following areas:
(a) wetlands;
(b) coastal zones;
(c) mountain and forest areas;
(d) nature reserves and parks;
(e) special protection areas because of existing fauna and flora and natural
habitats
(f) areas in which the environmental quality standards have already been
exceeded;
(g) populated areas;
(h) landscapes of historical, cultural or archaeological significance.
16



type and magnitude of potential impact, in relation to the scale and siting criteria,
and having regard in particular to:
(a) extent of the impact (geographical area and size of the affected population),
(b) transboundary nature of the impact,
(c) magnitude and complexity of the impact, including existing technical
infrastructure
(d) probability of the impact,
(e) duration, frequency and reversibility of the impact.
The World Bank classification system is formulated in a more general way. Types of projects
are not specified in detail, rather the nature of projects is described. The final classification is
done on a case by case basis by the World Bank specialists using the following criteria:
project type and scale, project location, sensitivity of issues, nature and magnitude of
impact. The criteria are in general comparable to the criteria set by in the Polish legislation.
There are basically three different project categories in the World Bank system listed in the
Operational Policy OP 4.01:
-  Category A: wherefull EA is needed in accordance with the specific requirements of
the Bank's EA policy and procedure.
Category A includes projects which have one or more of the following attributes that
make the potential impacts "significant": direct pollutant discharges that are large
enough to cause degradation of air, water or soil; large-scale physical disturbance of
the site and/or surroundings; extraction, consumption, or conversion of substantial
amounts of forest and other natural resources; measurable modification of hydrologic
cycle; hazardous materials in more than incidental quantities; and involuntary
displacement of people and other significant social disturbances .
-  Category B: where EA is required, but its scope corresponds to the limited
environmental impacts of the project (the Bank's EA policy and procedure provide
specific guidance).
Projects in Category B often differ from A projects of the same type only in scale.
Large irrigation and drainage projects are usually Category A, however, small-scale
projects of the same type may fall into Category B.
Projects entailing rehabilitation, maintenance or upgrading rather than new
construction will usually be in Category B. Projects with any of these characteristics
may have impacts, but are less likely to be "significant". However, each case must be
judged on its own merits.
- Category C: where no EA is required.
Projects in Category C are usually projects on education, family planning, health,
institution development, human resources projects, nutrition. However, some of those
projects could include elements which could have a significant impact on the
environment and in those cases projects from areas listed above should be included in
category B. For example, disposal of medical wastes may be an issue in many health
projects.
Examples of project types of all categories are presented and discussed in the WB
Environmental Assessment Sourcebook.
Projects of category A include mainly new "large scale" developments, such as dams and
reservoirs, industrial plants and industrial estates, irrigation, drainage and flood control,
mineral developments, power generation stations, and infrastructural projects such as
highways and other roads, or water supply and wastewater collection and treatment.
17



Most of the categories have their equivalents in the Polish classification system. However
in the Polish regulations scale of projects is described in more details, and types the projects
listed are present in both groups. For example construction of power generation stations of
300 MW or more is included in Group 1 and stations of between 10 MW 300 MW are
included in Group 2. Another example are roads: highways, express roads and national roads
are classified as Group 1 projects and other public roads should be treated as Group 2
projects.
It should however be stated that some types of projects are included in Group 1 irrespectively
of their scale or capacity, it applies for example to management of hazardous waste or
manufacture of pharmaceutics, fertilizers and biocides or management of asbestos products.
That approach is similar to the one of the WB, where hazardous waste management and
manufacture and management of toxic materials are included in category A.
Projects of category B according to the WB's classification include "small scale"
developments and some types of rehabilitation and maintenance of a number of the Category
A projects. Similarly, the Polish system Group 2 includes "small scale" developments of the
types listed in Group 1, however in addition to that it covers various types of developments
irrespective of scale (for example all food processing industries, most of agricultural
developments or development of housing or industrial estates). It must be noted, though, that
any projects from Group 2 which are screened positively (i.e. are qualified as needing an EIA
report) are treated in the same way as Group I projects. It means that an EIA report for
projects from both groups would have the same scope (all aspects should be analysed) and
conditions of public participation procedure are the same). (The issue of EA reports in the
Polish and WB system is further analysed under EA Reports heading below).
The Polish legislation and the WB recommendations use different approaches to
rehabilitation, maintenance and upgrading projects . While in the WB procedures most of
such projects would be included in category B, in the Polish system all significant
modifications of the projects are as a rule treated as new developments, which have to be
screened according to the following principles:
- the following modification projects should be included in Group 1:
* modifications which as such are included in Group 1,
* modifications which are not included in either Group I or 2, but:
* make the project fit into Group 1, or
* increase emission by 20% or more, or
* increase consumption of raw materials, fuel or energy by 20% or more;
* modifications of Group 2 projects, which make the project fit into Group 1;
- the following modifications should be included in Group 2:
* modifications of projects from Group 1, which as such are not included in Groups
1 and 2, but:
* increase emission by 20% or more or
* increase consumption of raw materials, fuel, or energy by 20% or more
Maintenance of the projects included in Group 1 and 2 is in general not subject to an EIA
procedure, which is strictly connected to the developments which need an administrative
decision to be issued. There are however other regulations (e.g. related to Integrated Pollution
Prevention and Control regulations), procedures (regular check by the Environmental
18



Inspectorate as well as random inspections) and standards (e.g. emission limits), which
regulate operation and maintenance processes.
Some types of projects mentioned for category A or B of the WB classification
(resettlement, rural development program, watershed program, energy efficiency and
conservation) are too large and broad for the EIA procedure as defined by the Polish law.
They would not be subject to the EIA procedure as a whole, however subprojects (specific
investment projects) would be included in Group 1 or 2. In such cases EIA procedure would
be conducted, but only for subprojects.
5.1.2 Strategic Environmental Assessment
According to the Polish legislation, environmental aspects of general programs could be
evaluated during an SEA procedure, providing that program preparation is clearly provided
for by the legislation, and that programs are prepared on a national or regional (voivodship)
level.
Strategic environmental assessment is also necessary for land-use development plans, which
are being prepared on the national, regional (voivodship) and municipal level. The plans
determine areas, where specific type of land use is allowed, and what are the conditions and
limitations of this land-use. Considering that a SEA procedure is required for land-use
development plans on all levels, it could be stated that environmental aspects of directions of
spatial development are taken into consideration.
It is expected that in 2004, changes will be introduced into the legislation regarding SEA. It is
proposed that also plans and programs (required by the law), which are developed on county
(poviat) and municipal (gmina) levels will be subject to SEA procedure. That is necessary for
final compliance with the European Union requirements in the field of environmental
assessment.
The above classification of activities subject to EA in Poland does not correspond directly to
the classification used by the Bank. While both Regional EA and Sectoral EA would fit the
Polish SEA procedure, specific (investment) projects are subject to the EIA procedure. Both
procedures vary in certain details though in many respects are quite similar.
In general however, the scope of activities subject to EA in Poland seems to be sufficient
for the purposes of implementing the Bank safeguard policies.
5.2 Screening
In Poland, the approach and criteria for screening differ slightly in SEA procedure and EIA
procedure.
In SEA screening relates only to "sectoral" documents and this is a negative screening i.e. in
there is a presumption that all "sectoral" documents, similarly to "general" strategic
documents, require an SEA report. However, the competent authority (i.e. the authority
responsible for adopting a document) is allowed not to carry out the environmental impact
assessment procedure where, in agreement with environmental and health authorities, it
19



determines - taking into account in particular the characteristics of the activities envisaged in
these documents and the nature and magnitude of the impact on the environment, as well as the
characteristics of the area likely to be affected - that the implementation of the provisions of
these documents would not have a significant impact on the environment.
In EIA screening relates only to Group 2 projects. This is a positive screening i.e. project
would require EIA report only if it meets certain criteria. The criteria for screening are
regulated in the already mentioned Regulations of September 2002. They are quite detailed
and relate to the nature of the project, its location and its potential impact.
In general, both the approach to screening and the screening criteria in the Polish law,
although slightly different that those in the Bank procedures (for example there is no criterion
of "unprecedented" impact), seem to be sufficient to assure that all projects, plans, programs
and policies which under the Bank policies would require an assessment - shall indeed be
subject to EA.
5.3 Scoping
In SEA scoping is a mandatory part of the procedure in relation to all documents (except for
local land use plans). The competent authority (i.e. the authority responsible for adopting a
document) shall, in agreement with environmental and health authorities, determine the
scope and level of detail of information which must be included in the SEA documentation
(called in Poland "environmental impact prognosis").
In EIA scoping is mandatory only for Group 2 projects, where it is carried out together with
the screening decision. For Group 1 projects scoping is voluntary, i.e., a developer may
request authorities to decide about the scope and level of details in relation to information to
be provided in the EA report.
5.4 Environmental assessment report
In all cases the requirements for the content of EA report in Poland are similar to those as to
the content for EA report for a category A project as required by the Bank. There are however
some minor differences indicated below.
Environmental Management Plan - requirements concerning EMP are in most cases exist
also in the Polish law for EA reports of both SEA and EIA procedures. This applies in
particular to mitigation measures, and partially for monitoring [see Monitoring below]. The
Bank requirements concerning Capacity Development and Training are basically not included
into the content of report under the Polish law. There is also no precise requirement
concerning presentation of the issues related to Implementation and Costs Estimates, in
particular there is no requirement for providing information on sources of funding.
Pest Management Plan - The Polish EA legislation does not have any provisions specifically
and clearly reflecting the Bank requirements related to Pest Management. Most of these
requirements seem however to be covered by the general requirements concerning the
content of EA reports.
20



Description of policy. legal and administrative framework - is not required for EIA reports
and only partially for SEA reports. However there is a standard practice that all EA reports
do provide such a description.
Analysis of alternatives is a mandatory requirement for EA report under both SEA and EIA in
Poland. This includes also the "zero" ("without project") altemative, which is always
required (although the forthcoming changes in the EPLA provide for that in the EIA
procedure the scoping decision may release the developer from consideration of this particular
alternative).
Social aspects - are only partially covered by the requirements for EA reports under Polish
law. The issues related to cultural property are required for EIA reports but not for SEA
reports. There is no clearly stated requirement for discussing involuntary resettlement -
although it is covered indirectly by related provisions (for example: a requirement to
discuss potential social conflicts related to a project). As for other social aspects - see
Minorities below.
Transboundary and global aspects - are in principle required to be discussed by EA reports in
both SEA and EIA in Poland, although there is no clear requirement for discussing the issues
related to biodiversity and ozone-depleting substances. In case of transboundary impact there
is also the mentioned above special transboundary procedure meant to implement the
Espoo Convention.
5.5 Public participation and disclosure
Legal framework of EIA in Poland provides for broad possibilities for the public to participate
in the decision-making. Public participation is closely related with environmental assessment
in both SEA and EIA. All projects which may significantly affect the environment are
subject to several consecutive SEA proceedings at the stage of plans and programs, and
later on to EIA proceedings at the stage of various individual decisions authorizing the
project. In all cases public participation is required. The Special Roads Procedure Act has
to some extent reduced the participation rights in relation to roads, but even under that law the
public has several opportunities throughout the procedure to learn and comment on the
proposed development starting at the early stage of plan or program and finishing at the stage
of construction. In most cases NGOs have special rights to participate, including right to
challenge the decisions at court, acting in public interest.
All the documents (e.g. EA reports, decisions and recommendations) are subject to full
disclosure under the access to information provisions of EPLA.
The difference between the Polish law and Bank procedures for public participation is that
public participation in EA procedures in Poland is strictly correlated with EA report. So in
Poland the general public and NGOs are being notified only after the report is ready and there
is no requirement for public participation in screening and scoping. Thus the Bank
requirement for initial consultation does not exist in the Polish law.
21



5.6 Quality control
The statutory requirement for involving environmental and health authorities as well as
public participation and disclosure [as explained above] are important elements of the EA
quality control [the mechanism is illustrated in detail in the Institutional Set- Up chapter above
and the relevant part of the Supplement].
An additional tool of quality control of EA reports are EA Commissions. They are the
advisory bodies to the Environment Minister and voivods (heads of regional governmental
administration). The members of EA Commissions are not governmental officials. Both the
Minister and regional (voivodship) and county (poviat) authorities may seek professional
advice of the Commissions on any document or project subjected to EA. However it is not a
mandatory step in SEA or EIA procedure.
The role of EA Commissions is however not only too make sure that the EA reports are of
high quality, but to observe that all procedural obligations are taken into consideration and all
interested parties can express their opinion on a neutral forum. Therefore in many cases EA
Commissions' role is to act as a mediator between conflicted parties.
5.7 Monitoring
Both EIA and SEA procedures in Poland provide for arrangements for post-project
monitoring and require EA reports to propose measures in this respect. However neither in
SEA nor in EIA it is a mandatory requirement to include such monitoring obligations in the
decision. In each case it is up to the competent authorities based on relevant proposals in EA
reports, whether to introduce such measures or not.
5.8 Minorities
In Poland there are no indigenous people in a strict sense. The only minority that might be
considered eligible for meeting the criteria set out in OD 4.20 seem to be Roma (Gypsies).
There are however relatively few of them in Poland and the issue, as compared with some
other countries in transition, does not seem to have caused as yet any significant problems in
practice relevant to Bank's operations.
The EA law in Poland does not provide for any specific approach to minorities. Their rights in
theory should be protected via standard rights granted to the public [see above]. However,
given their problems with official language and educational backwardness, there might be odd
situations where such standard approach of Poland's EA law may well be found insufficient
and Bank procedure of OD 4.20 could be applicable to supplement it.
5.9 Resettlement and compulsory land acquisition
Resettlement in Poland is currently related only with the compulsory acquisition of land for
public use purposes. The general procedure in this respect is provided for in the Act of 21
22



August 1997 on Real Estate Management (Dz.U. of 2000 No 46 item 543 as amended). The
procedure provides far reaching protection of real estate owners against voluntary
decisions. There are requirements for negotiations to be undertaken, for the fair and
transparent process, for fair compensation and for access to justice. Compulsory land
acquisition under this Act is quite a difficult and lengthy process under extremely rigid
judicial control.
Even the compulsory land acquisition under the Special Roads Procedure Act, which provides
for a simplified and prompter procedure, is well within the standards appropriate for a
democratic country ruled by law.
5.10 Natural habitats
In general Poland has a sufficient legal framework for the Bank policies related to the
protection of natural habitats. In particular, both SEA and EIA procedures require EA reports
to address the issue and provide necessary mitigation measures, including so called "natural
compensation". There is a new draft law on Nature Conservation that includes changes
envisaged to strengthen legal scheme for natural habitats in relation to environmental
assessment.
The Special Road Procedure Act provides less protection to natural habitats, still it seems to
comply with the WB policies and procedures.
5.11  Cultural heritage
Protection of cultural heritage is currently regulated by the Act of 23 July 2003 on Protection
of Monuments (Dz.U of 2003 No 162 item 1568). This new law, which replaced the old Law
of 1962 on Cultural Heritage Protection has reinforced the already quite strict rules
concerning protection of cultural heritage. In fact its requirements in this context, including
far reaching powers of cultural heritage authorities (so called 'Conservators of
Monuments") in relation to planning and development control are often considered to be too
rigid. Even the Special Roads Procedure Act has not reduced these powers.
23



5.12 The EA requirements of the two systems summarised
The summary is based on the Table 2 of the World Bank Report of February 2002, but
significantly revised and updated in relation to the Polish law.
| Polish EA System                  WB Procedures
Legislation & Procedures
1.  Enabling             a) 1997 Constitution               OP 4.01, 1999, Annexes A, B, and C
legislation for     b)April 2001 Environmental Protection  (mandatory)
EA                  Law (EPLA)                          -EA is the process whose breadth,
c)July 2001 Law on Implementation   depth, and type of analysis
of the EPLA, Waste Law and some     depend on the nature, scale, and
other Laws,                        potential environmental impact
(OP 4.01, para. 2) that results in an EA
report.
-EA identifies ways of improving a
project by preventing,
minimizing, mitigating, or
compensating for adverse
environmental impacts and enhancing
positive impacts.
-The borrower is responsible for
carrying out the EA.
2.   Detailed            a)General principles of environmental  BP/GP 4.01 (advisory and guidance)
legislation for EA  protection in EPLA:
- principle of prevention (Article 6.1),
- principle of precaution (Article 6.2),
- principle of integration of
environmental considerations into
sectoral
policies (Article 8),
- principle of public participation
(Article 10),
b) Public participation procedure
(Articles 31-39)
c) SEA procedure (Articles 40-45)
d) EIA procedure (Articles 46-57),
e)transboundary procedure (Articles 58
- 70),
f) substantive requirements for
environmental protection in land use and
development (Articles 71-73),
g) EA Commissions (Articles 394-399).
h) July 2002 Regulations on EA
Commissions
i) September 2002 Regulations on the
categories of projects that may have
significant environmental impact and on
the criteria of screening the projects for
environmental assessment
3.   Formal              a)Title I Part VI Chapter I of EPLA  None. A range of instruments, including
provisions for      (Articles 40-45),                   sectoral and regional EA, can be used to
strategic           b) March 2003 Land Use Planning Act  satisfy the WB's EA requirement (OP
environmental       (Articles 17 and 41)                4.01, para. 7;
assessment          c) November 2002 Regulations on the  Annex A, paras. 6 and 8; Annex B,
(SEA)               content of SEA documentation in     para. 2(f) and fn. 3).
relation to land use plans
24



4.   Local              None                               EA takes into account the country's
government                                             overall policy framework,
EIA legislation                                       national legislation, institutional
or procedures.                                        capabilities and obligations under
relevant international environmental
treaties and agreements. The
WB does not finance project activities
that would contravene such
country obligations, as identified during
EA. (OP 4.01, para. 3).
5.  Sectoral            Provided for in some sectoral legislation
authority EA        to comply with provisions
legislation or      of the EPLA
procedures
6.  General &           Guidance materials on:             -The 1991 EA Sourcebook (3 vols.) and
specific            - EIA procedure, MOE, 2002         EA Sourcebook Updates
guidelines          - Public Participation in EIA, MOE,  (Nos. 1-26).
2002                              -The 1999 Pollution Prevention and
Abatement Handbook (OP 4.01, para.
No Guidance on SEA                 6).
Administration
7.  Main                MOE, its regional offices, and     The WB region coordinates WB review
administrative      regional and local authorities    of EA in consultation with
body for EA                                            its Regional Environment Sector Unit
(RESU) and, as necessary,
with support of the Environment
Department (ENV) (BP 4.01,
para. 1).
8.  Competent           MOE, regional and county (poviat)  Director, RESU; chair, Environment
authority for       authorities,                      Sector Board; and ultimately
environmental       together with the Chief Sanitary  the Board of Executive Directors.
acceptability       Inspector (CSI) of the Ministry of
Health (MOH) and its equivalent at
the regional and county (poviat) level.
9.   Review body        MOE, with advice of the National   RESU
for EIA             EA Commission, and regional and
county (poviat)
authorities, with advice of regional EA
Commissions.
10. Sectoral            As defined by legislation and COM  The task team, with RESU concurrence,
authority           regulations.                      assigns the proposed
responsibilities                                      project to one of four categories: A, B,
C, or Fl (BP 4.01, para. 2).
11. Local               Regional, county (poviat) and local  NA
government          authorities are
responsibilities   involved throughout the EIA and
review process.
12. Other bodies        In addition to the MOE and         The regional vice president; chair,
responsible for     CSI/MOH other agencies include    ENV; and the Legal
planning            ministries responsible for economy, for  Department (LEG) (e.g., BP 4.01, para.
approval            agriculture and rural             5 and as defined in
development, for land use and housing, relevant OPs).
etc.
25



13. Method of            As defined by other applicable     -Internally: with the ENV, the LEG, etc.
coordination        legislation and the COM and as      -Externally: the WB advises the
with other          established by the Minister, MOE    borrower on the WB's EA
planing                                                 requirement, reviews the EA report (OP
approval                                                4.01, para. 5); review is in
bodies                                                  writing on certain aspects of the EA
process, requirements, and
documentation (PB 4.01, paras. 6-12).
-For risky projects: the quality
assurance and control team
(QACT) of the environment "anchor" of
the WB
14. Method of            The same authorities are responsible for -Use of Pollution Prevention and
coordination        EA quality, environmental acceptability  Abatement Handbook available
with pollution      and for pollution control           as guidance
control                                                 -The EA may recommend alternative
approval & regulation                                   emission levels and
approaches to pollution prevention and
abatement of the project
(OP 4.01, para. 6).
Stages of Screening
15. Screening            a)for SEA - in accordance with Article  Categories A, B., C, and Fl) OP 4.01,
categories          40 EPLA                             paras. 8-13).
b)for EIA - in accordance with Article
51 EPLA and September 2002
Regulations on the categories of projects
that may have significant environmental
impact and on the criteria of screening
the projects for environmental
assessment
16. Screening            a)for SEA - in accordance with Art. 40.3 WB screens and classifies projects
method              of EPLA planning authority needs to  depending on their type,
consult with with MOE and CSI or   location, sensitivity, and scale and the
regional authorities (voivodship) and  nature and magnitude of
regional sanitary inspector        potential impacts (OP 4.01, para. 8),
b)for EIA - in accordance with Article  using illustrative screening
51 EPLA and September 2002         lists (GP 4.01, Annex B).
Regulations on the categories of projects
that may have significant environmental
impact and on the criteria of screening
the projects for environmental
assessment.
Competent authority needs to consult
decision as to screening with county
(poviat) environmental authorities and
sanitary inspector
26



Scoping
17. Scoping             a) for SEA -in accordance with Art.42  -EA takes into account the nature, scale,
method              EPLA planning authority consult with  and potential impacts on
MOE and CSI or regional authorities  the natural environment, human health
(voivodship) and regional sanitary  and safety, social, and
inspector the scope of SEA.        transboundary and global environmental
b) for EIA - competent authority needs  aspects of activities.
to consult with regional (voivodship) an -Natural and social aspects are
county (poviat) environmental      considered in an integrated way.
authorities and respective sanitary  -Requirements mandated under other
inspectors                         WB policies are taken into
account: e.g., OP 4.04 (June 2001), OP
4.07 (February 2000), OP
4.09 (December 1998), OP 4.11
(August 1999), OP 4.12
(December 2001), OD 4.20 (December
1991), OP 4.20 (October
1999), OP 4.36 (March 1993), OP 4.37
(October 2001), OP 7.50
(June 2001), Op 7.60 (June 2001), OP
8.50 (August 1995), OD
9.01 (May 1992), OD 14.70 (August
1989).
-The WB discusses the scope of the EA
with the borrower,
including during a field visit by an
environmental specialist, and
helps to draft terms of reference for the
EA, ensuring public
participation and interagency
coordination.
- RESU reviews terms of reference (BP
4.01, paras. 6-7).
Content of Study
27



18. Content of           Art. 52 of EPLA require that        Provided in OP 4.01, Annex B, given to
EIA report           an EIA report shall include:        the borrower under WB's
-Description of the project and site  explanatory cover letter.
use at different stages             Includes:
-Natural environment characteristics  -Executive summary
-Description of alternatives,       -Policy, legal and administrative
including "zero," or "no project,"  framework
alternative                         -Project description
-Potential impacts and effects      -Baseline data
-Justification for chosen option    -Prediction and assessment of
-Prevention, mitigation, and        environmental impacts and
monitoring measures                 mitigation
-Indication of whether a project may  -Analysis of alternatives
require the designation of a        -Environmental management plan
restricted-use area                 -List of EIA report preparers
b) Annex I and 2 to the April 2003 Law  -Record of consultations
on Special Procedure for Construction  -References and supporting data
of National Roads sets similar      On the format of the EA report, see GP
requirements for EIA report concerning  4.01, paras. 5-7.
roads
c) Art. 41 of EPLA defines the scope of
SEA report for regional and sectoral
assessments.
d) November 2002 Regulations on the
content of SEA documentation in
relation to land use plans
19. Requirement          Required under Art. 41.2.12) and    Executive summary in a form and
for nontechnical     52.1.14) of EPLA, and Annex I and 11 to language that are
summary             the April 2003 Law on Special        understandable and accessible to the
Procedure for Construction of National  groups being consulted (OP
Roads                               4.01, para. 16).
20. Requirement          Required under Art. 41 and 52 EPLA,  This is a policy requirement, since an
for considering      and Annex I to the April 2003 Law on  EA is to evaluate a project's
alternatives         Special Procedure for Construction of  potential environmental risks and
National Roads                      impacts in its area of influence,
to examine project alternatives, etc. (OP
4.01, para. 2).
21. Requirement          Required under Art. 41 and 52 EPLA  -Specifically required in OP 4.01 (para.
for                  and Annex I and 2 to the April 2003  7) and explained in
environmental        Law on Special Procedure for        Annex C.
management           Construction of National Roads      -OP 4.01 strengthens and clarifies the
plans (EMP)                                              role of the EMP by
specifically listing EMP as a component
of the category A project
EA report and citing EMP provisions
related to the
implementation of the EA.
22. Requirement          Required, Title I Part VI Chapter 3 of  -Compliance with all international
for                  EPA (Articles 58-70) is            treaties is specified.
transboundary        specifically devoted to EA          -The WB does not finance project
impacts             related to transboundary impacts.   activities that contravene
country obligations under relevant
international environmental
treaties and agreements.
23. Requirement          Not specifically but impact on climate is -Required.
for global           required to be assessed            -Impacts include climate change, ozone
impacts                                                 depletion, pollution of
international waters, and adverse
impacts on biodiversity.
28



Review, public participation, & decision-making
24. Method for           By the MOE and other                -Comparison with terms of reference
review of           agencies, including EA              (BP)
content &           Commissions,depending on the level of  -Consistency with terms of reference as
substance of        authority for a reviewed project type.  specified in the guide for preparation
EA reports                                              and review of EA reports
submitted                                               -Field visit by an environmental
specialist
25. Requirement          Required both for EIA and SEA but   -For category A & B projects, the
for public          only for those projects which were  borrower consults project affected
participation       screened positively for EA report.  groups and local NGOs.
Procedure for public participation is  -For category A projects, consultation
regulated in Title I                occurs twice: (I) shortly
Part V of EPLA.                    after screening and before EA terms of
reference are finalized
(scoping) and (2) once a draft EA report
is prepared.
26. Arrangements         Via publicly accessible records of  (1) For category A projects: prior to
for access to       documents as regulated in Title I Part  project appraisal
EIA reports         IV of EPLA                          -EA available at the WB's Infoshop
(2) For category B projects financed by
IDA: prior to appraisal
(3) For category B projects financed by
IBRD for which a separate
EA report is required (no time period
given for the submission of
EA report)
-EA report is available in a suitable
public location in the
borrowing country
-EA report is available at the WB
Infoshop when received
(4) Guarantee operations:
-Category A or B report must be
submitted before end of appraisal
-For IBRD guarantee: A report at WB
Infoshop 60 days before
meeting of the IBRD Board; for B
report, 30 days before
-For IDA guarantee: same as loans
Borrower's permission to release the
EA report is required. See
also, BP 17.50: Disclosure of
Operational Information.
27. Decisionmaking       PAA at appropriate level of        -RESU reviews the EA and clears
authority           authority for project activities and  departure of WB appraisal
programs and plans, as regulated in  mission or requires additional work.
EPLA and sectoral legislation      -Integrated with appraisal of project
design and economic analysis (BP)
28. Provisions for       Provided in the Administrative     See BP 17.55: Inspection Panel
appeal              Procedure Code and EPLA
29



Monitoring
29. Monitoring,          MOE, Chief Inspectorate of         WB monitors compliance with the
enforcement,        Environmental Protection, and      provisions of a loan agreement.
& compliance        Environmental Inspectorates of
regional PAA are responsible for
environmental monitoring,
inspection, and compliance
enforcement.
30. Requirements         Article 56 of EPLA                 Reports submitted to WB by borrower,
for follow-up                                          supervision visits by WB (BP 4.01,
& monitoring                                           para. 20)
Capacity
31. Expertise for        NA                                 Borrower should retain independent EA
conducting                                             experts, establish an
EIA (by                                                independent international panel for
sector, if                                             major issues for category A
possible)                                              projects and for the Dam Safety Panel
(see OP 4.01, para.4, fn.7
and OP/BP 4.37).
32. Ratification of      -1991 EIA Espoo Convention ratified  WB is neither a signatory nor a party.
international       12 June 1997
treaties related    -1998 Aarhus Convention ratified 15
to EIA (Espoo       February 2002.
& Aarhus            Texts of both Conventions have been
Conventions)        published in Official Journal of Law and
according to Article 91 of the
Constitution are directly applicable
Explanatory notes. World Bank OP (operating procedure), BP (Bank procedure), GP (good practice), OD
(operational directive). The environmental "anchor" of the
world Bank is an organizational consultative entity that assembles chiefs of environmental units from all regions
and others to discuss operational and policy matters of
common interest. IDA =International Development Association; IBRD=lnternational Bank for Reconstruction
and Development.
30



6 Review of Current EA Practice in Poland
6.1 Explanation of approach taken
The existence of formal requirements and procedures is a key factor in establishing and
maintaining a successful EA system. However it is the quality of actual practice that
determines its effectiveness. In order to be able to judge whether the system is effective one
should ideally have access to the data on the number and characteristics of the EA
proceedings carried out and their results. Currently there is no data available in Poland on
the number of EA procedures initiated, the types of developments involved nor the impact of
the EA on the development process. The Ministry of Environment has recently developed an
EA data base (called INFOOS) as a result of a PHARE twinning project, however, at the time
of this review it has not been filled with data yet. There were, in the past years, several
attempts at reviewing practice (e.g.. surveys by the Institute of Sustainable Development or
by Witold Woloszyn of the Marie Curie Sklodowska University of Lublin) carried out in the
90s, however given the dynamics of the changes in both in the Polish legislation and practice
they could no longer be considered representative.
The authors of this report have therefore decided to carry out a brief investigation into the
current practice, by means of a questionnaire. They also took into account their own
experience as EA practitioners involved in the preparation of EA reports, quality checks of
EA reports prepared by other practitioners, acting as advisors concerning EA proceedings to
different actors (authorities, investor and NGOs).
6.2 Survey design
Given the limited time available for the preparation of the current report the questionnaire
had to be brief. Practice shows that respondents are reluctant to work on longer
questionnaires. It was therefore decided to fit it into one page.
Each interview was preceded by a telephone call or meeting to identify the respondent able
and willing to reply, a fax or internet transmission of the text of the questionnaire. The
interview was carried out during another telephone call scheduled at the time convenient to
the respondent. The questionnaire targeted authorities involved in the EA processes at all
administration levels. The selection of the sample was determined by two factors: limited
time available on the one hand and importance of obtaining as comprehensive picture as
possible on the other.
The total of 19 interviews were carried out:
- on national level: with representatives of the Ministry for Environment and the
National EA Commission. The Ministry is a regulatory body for the EA process and the
Commission is an advisory body to the Minister on issues concerning EA. The Ministry is
also the consulting authority for EIA reports concerning highways, mining licences and
some projects implemented in the areas of Natura 2000. In addition the Ministry acts as an
intermediary, representing the Polish State in transboundary EA proceedings. For the
purpose of this review two MOE officials were interviewed.
- on regional (voivodship) level: with representatives of the voivod's offices, responsible
for the review of EA report and decision on its adequacy, in the case of developments
31



requiring mandatory EIA. For the purpose of this review representatives of 5 (out of 16)
regions were interviewed.
- on county (poviat) level: with representatives of the administration responsible for the
decision on the need of an EIA (screening), review of EA report and decision on its
adequacy, in the case of developments not requiring mandatory EIA. For the purpose of
this review representatives of 5 (out of some 360) counties were interviewed.
- on municipal (gmina) level: with representatives of the administration responsible for
issuing of the decision concerning the development requiring an EIA, both mandatory and
non-mandatory. For the purpose of this review representatives of 7 (out of some 2500)
gminas were interviewed.
While care was taken to provide input from all levels of administration, the authors of this
report are aware that the sample of county and municipal level authorities may not be
considered as fully representative. However it was not possible to carry out a wider scope of
investigations within the time available. Moreover the authors' practical experience suggests
that while the questionnaire may not be used to support conclusions regarding the scale of
different occurrences, it has served its purpose in identifying most of the trends of current
practice.
All questionnaire respondents were informed that their names and the name of their
administrative units (regions, counties and municipalities) would not appear in the published
results of the survey and therefore may be considered as anonymous. However, to be able to
substantiate the conclusions of this review while withholding the name of the locality, a
description of the region/locality involved was provided as background information. [See
Annex IV]3.
The 8 questions that made up the questionnaire concerned:
1. Number of developments or plans and programmes for which an EIA or SEA
proceedings were undertaken, per year for the last 3 years. The time frame of 3 years was
chosen to present a consistent information about the system under the new EA regulations,
which came into force in 2001. The respondents were asked to state, wherever possible
the numbers for the categories of projects which, according to Polish legislation require
mandatory and non-mandatory EIA.
2. Numbers of EIA proceedings for which EIA report was prepared and for which it was not
with regard to cases when the need of a report is decided at the screening stage (Group 2
projects). The question looked also into the convergence of the final decision of screening
with the opinion on the need of an EIA report given by the consulting authorities. The
time frame of 3 years was chosen, for the same reasons as described above.
3. Duration of the proceedings, from the moment of the application for a given development
was submitted, to the decision was issued.
4. Number of objections to EA reports, in particular objections which resulted in the
rejection of the report
5. Number of reports which were referred to the National or Regional (Voivodship) EA
Commissions, either because the type of development so requires or because of
controversies and problems concerning the given development.
6. Number of EA procedures where comments from the public were received. Further details
were requested concerning number of cases in which an public hearing was held and in
which comments by the public resulted in relevant changes to the project.
The originals of the questionnaires are available to the Client at REC Office in Warsaw, however they will not
be made publicly available
32



7. Any additional requirements taken into account during the EA process, such as the
procedural requirements of financing bodies (PHARE, ISPA, EBRD, World Bank etc.)
8. An open question concerning major problems in the EA practice encountered by the
respondents.
6.3 General comments on current practice
While the full discussion of the survey results including detailed information about
* characteristics of the PAA respondents
* number of EIA proceedings for Group 1 and Group 2 projects
* time length of the EIA proceedings
* quality of EA reports
* public participation in the EIA procedure
may be found in Annex IV, the present chapter provides a synthetized picture of the EA
practice in Poland.
During the 15 years of formal existence of the EA requirement there has been considerable
advancement in experience and good practice in EA in Poland. All actors became familiar
with the process and an increased influence of the EIA procedure on the conditions of
planning permissions and construction permits was observed.
Current Polish EA legislation meets all of the formal requirements contained in the EU
acquis communautaire, in particular the requirements of directives 337/85 and 97/11.
Envisaged changes in legislation will also bring it in full compliance with the requirement of
the SEA Directive 241/01.
On the one hand on national and regional level there is both know-how and manpower
which allows for a thorough quality review. In the case of major developments requiring
mandatory EIA where opinion of the regional (voivodship) authorities has to be obtained it is
possible to judge quality control as adequate and reliable.
On the other hand decentralisation of decision-making resulted in great shift of powers and
responsibilities to municipal (gmina) and county (poviat) levels. The bigger burden has not
always been matched with increased capacity, especially sufficiently qualified staff is often
lacking. The gap is to some extent matched by the involvement of consulting authorities at the
screening and scoping stages. Nonetheless it must be admitted that with regards to
developments for which the need of EIA report is decided at the screening stage the
practice is relatively weaker, as such developments are usually handled by municipalities
and counties.
Public participation practice has a lot of potential for improvement and currently very
few actors of the EA procedure appreciate fully the opportunities for quality control it may
provide.
The identified need of networking and capacity building of relevant authorities as well as
increased public involvement will hopefully be addressed by the INFOOS database mentioned
earlier in Explanation of the Approach. The database will collect information on EA
proceedings (which anyway have to be recorded and made available to the public) as well as
EA reports or links to EA reports. (Because of the EU requirements the competent authorities
33



would anyway need to report on the number of EA proceedings, EA reports and their quality).
In addition the database will contain reference materials, publications, and a discussion forum.
The authorities of different levels involved in EA will be able to log into the database and
review, enter or modify the data. The database will be searchable by the public via Internet.
Therefore it may be expected that it will not only provide feedback to the Ministry of
Environment but also increase public interest and involvement in EA proceedings as well as
become a quality control mechanism. It is expected that the database will start operation in
early 2004.
34



7 Summary of the Findings
Environmental Impact Assessment procedures have been functioning in Poland for at least 15
years. Although there have been several changes of legislation, both concerning the types of
developments covered as well as procedures to be followed considerable experience has been
gained and practice has significantly improved.
It should be stressed that Poland has a well developed environmental legislation using both
sectoral and horizontal approach as well as the tradition of regulating impact on different
elements of environment: e.g. air, water, noise. Therefore even those developments which are
not covered by mandatory environmental impact assessment will not be exempt from
compliance with environmental regulations.
The present Polish legislation is compliant with the requirements of the European Union
environmental legislation. Given that Poland will join the EU in 2004 compliance with EU
regulations will be maintained in the future.
The review carried out for the purpose of this report demonstrates a considerable overlap of
the two systems, despite the following differences in the approaches and measures.
1. Both the Polish system and World Bank classify projects to different categories
depending on the extent of their environmental impact.
2. In the World Bank procedure the scope and requirements of EA depends on the
project category (it is full for Category A projects and limited for Category B
projects).
3. In the Polish system the scope and requirements of EA are uniform for all projects that
are qualified as requiring EA reports, i.e., all projects of Group 1 and some projects of
Group 2 (in case of the latter the need of an EA report is decided on case-by-case
basis).
4. Public participation is initiated at a later stage under the Polish procedure.
The EA practice in Poland has been constantly improving, although the survey revealed
in some cases the following problems:
*  insufficient expertise on lower administration levels as a result of which EA reports
are checked only for fornal compliance
*  EA reports are often of insufficient quality which adds workload both to authorities
and investors
*  several and often far reaching changes in EA regulations introduced in the recent
years have time and again caused problems especially on county and municipal levels
giving little time for the adaptation of the existing routine
Since the survey was based on the sample which was too limited to be considered
representative, it is not possible to evaluate reliably the scale of the particular problems
identified, however the findings may be treated as an indication of actual trends.
The report provides detailed information about the Polish EA legal framework as well as an
insight into the current practice which may be used as a reference for further analysis taking
into account the WB actual experience and practice in supporting specific types of projects in
Poland.
35



8 Supplement: Environmental Assessment in the Roads
Sector
8.1 The Polish Legal Framework
Since 1994 Poland has had a special legal framework for siting and construction of toll
motorways and express roads introduced by the Toll Motorways Act of 27 October 1994
(Dz.U of 2001 No 110 item 1192 as amended). The Toll Motorways Act excluded the siting
and construction of toll motorways and express roads from most of the commonly binding
regulations, also those related to EIA, and established special regulations in this respect.
According to the authorities responsible for transport lack of sufficient progress (in many
opinions: lack of any progress) in construction of motorways and express roads (or more
generally: in developing road infrastructure) has been caused by still too rigid and
complicated procedures safeguarding various, including environmental, interests and concerns
involved in road construction. This has prompted adoption of yet another legal scheme to
facilitate development of road infrastructure in Poland which has limited the applicability of
'standard" requirements provided by different laws to roads.
The Act of 10 April 2003 on Special Procedure for Construction of National Roads
(Dz.U of 2003 No 80 item 721) [hereinafter referred to as Special Roads Procedure Act]
excludes - on temporary basis (till the end of 2007) the location and construction of certain
categories of roads from generally applicable procedures and requirements, and establishes its
own rules instead. Those special rules affect in particular issues related to environmental
protection, including EIA, to public participation and to compulsory land acquisition.
8.1.1 Categories of roads
Under the Public Roads Act of 21 March 1985 (Dz.U. of 2000 no 71 item 838 as amended)
there are 4 basic categories of public roads in Poland:
- national roads,
- regional (voivodship) roads,
- county (poviat) roads,
- local (municipality/gmina) roads.
All national roads belong to the State, while regional, county and local roads belong to the
respective self-governmental authorities at voivodship, county and municipal level.
Under Article 5 of the Public Roads Act national roads include:
- all motorways and express roads,
- international roads,
- roads being alternative routes for toll motorways or toll express roads,
- roads serving national defense purposes,
- roads leading to publicly accessible border check-points,
- bypass roads in agglomerations,
36



- roads providing connections between other national roads.
Most public roads are subjected to EA several times in accordance with the system of
'tiering' applied in Poland. First, there is a document called "concept of the national land-use
policy" which sets the scene for all roads, then there are governmental programs for
development of roads, finally, there are regional (voivodship) land use plans setting the
proposed routes for public roads. Preparation of all those strategic documents is obligatory and
they all are subject to SEA. Specific routes of public roads are also included in local land use
plans, which - if prepared - are also subject to SEA [SEA procedure is described in the main part
of this report].
All national roads and roads sited in cities having county status are subject to mandatory EIA
under the Special Roads Procedure Act, while some other public roads are subject to
general EIA scheme under EPLA and the Land Use Planning Act.
8.1.2 Roads subject to special EIA procedure
Roads subject to special EIA procedure under the Special Roads Procedure Act include the
following categories of roads:
- all motorways and express roads,
- international roads,
- roads being alternative routes for toll motorways or toll express roads,
- roads serving national defense purposes,
- roads leading to publicly accessible border check-points,
- bypass roads in agglomerations,
- roads providing connections between other national roads
- not-national roads sited in cities having county (poviat) status.
8.1.3 Roads subject to "general" EIA scheme:
General EIA scheme applies to any public road other than mentioned above which is
classified as regional (voivodship), county (poviat) or municipal (gmina) road, has hard
surface and is longer than 1 km. If it has at least 4 traffic lines and is longer than 10 km it
belongs to Group 1 projects, i.e., those which always require EIA, otherwise it falls into
Group 2 - i.e. projects which require screening. [General EIA scheme is described in the main
part of this Report].
8.2 Special procedure for siting and construction of roads and
institutional set-up
Under the Act of 10 April 2003 on Special Procedure for Construction of National Roads [
Special Roads Procedure Act], the special rules of siting and construction of roads apply to
national roads and roads sited in cities having county (poviat) status (this applies to 65
37



biggest agglomerations in Poland) and financed by such cities. Those rules replace
temporarily (till the end f 2007):
* the relevant rules of the Toll Motorways Act of 27 October 1994 - in relation to siting and
construction of toll motorways and express roads,
* the relevant rules of the land Use Planning Act of 27 March 2003 (Dz.U of 2003 No 80
item 717) - in relation to siting and construction of other national roads (and roads in
cities with the county status).
In both cases the new rules either replace or significantly reduce the application of other laws,
in particular those regulating environmental protection, including EIA, public participation
and compulsory land acquisition.
The special procedure consists of 2 stages:
1) siting procedure - with road siting decision
2) construction permit procedure - with road construction permit
If there is a need for compulsory acquisition of land for the purpose of road construction - the
road siting decision provides a legal basis for a separate decision on compulsory acquisition
of land. Under the Special Roads Procedure Act it is regional governor (voivod) who is
competent to take all the above decisions (i.e. road siting decision, compulsory acquisition of
land for roads and road construction permit). In all the above procedures it is the General
Director of National Roads and Motorways (the authority responsible for national roads) who
is the applicant (in case of roads in cities with the county status - the respective self-
governmental authority is the applicant).
The applicant, before submitting the application for a road siting decision needs to consult
relevant self-governmental (voivodship, county and municipal) and governmental
authorities. They have 14 days (self-governmental authorities) or 30 days (governmental
authorities) respectively to submit their opinions concerning the proposed location. The
above opinions replace any agreements, permits or statements which normally would be
issued by those authorities under other laws.
According to Article 5.6, the governmental authorities to be consulted are:
- the Environment Minister - in relation to projects to be situated in national parks, nature
reserves, landscape parks and areas protected under international law,
- relevant regional water authorities - in relation to projects including water facilities or
situated on flood control areas,
- relevant regional directorate of the State Forests - in relation to forestry grounds under the
State Forests management,
- relevant voivodship cultural heritage authorities - in relation to cultural heritage,
- relevant voivodship sanitary authorities - in relation to health and hygienic requirements.
The application, according to Article 5.5. must be accompanied with an EIA report meeting
the requirements specified in Annex I to the Special Roads Procedure Act. The public is
notified about the commencement of the procedure and the application and the report are
subjected to public comments under the public participation procedure as regulated in the
Environmental Protection Law Act (EPLA).
The road siting decision, according to Article 7, shall set measures to protect the
environment, cultural heritage, national defense and legitimate interests of third parties, and a
38



statement of reasons for the decision has to be prepared. The public shall be notified about
taking the decision and place where the content of the decision and the statement of reasons
for it are publicly available. According to Article 9, the decision can be appealed to the
minister responsible for housing and land use planning and shall be considered by him/her
within 14 days, while his/her decision, if challenged shall be adjudicated by the court within
2 months. The Special Roads Procedure Act does not include any statutory limitation as to
standing. General rules of the Administrative Procedure Code as well as Article 33 of EPLA
do apply - which means that NGOs can also challenge the decision.
After the road siting decision is taken, the necessary land shall be acquired by the General
Director of National Roads and Motorways. In case there is no agreement with the owners
within the period specified, he can apply to the voivod for issuing a decision on compulsory
acquisition of land, with the compensation set by real estate valuation experts according to
the market value of the real property calculated for the day of issuing the decision.
Requirements of other laws (special payments and permits for changing the use of land,
permits for cutting trees etc.) do not apply to arable and forestry grounds covered by the road
siting decision.
The road construction permit is issued according to the Building Law Act of 1994
(Dz.U.2000 No 106 item 1126 as amended) with some modifications. The application must be
accompanied with an EIA report meeting the requirements specified in Annex II to the
Special Roads Procedure Act. The public is notified about the commencement of the
procedure but there is no requirement to carry out the public participation procedure as
provided for by the Environmental Protection Law Act (EPLA). Nonetheless the general rules
of the Administrative Procedure Code concerning possibilities to submit comments do apply.
There is an obligation to include all necessary agreements required by other laws.
The road construction permit, according to Article 26 of the Special Roads Procedure Act,
may include an obligation for a post-project analysis. Article 46.9 of EPLA requiring a
statement of reasons for the decision does not apply, however in most cases such a statement
will be required under Article 107.4 of the Administrative Procedure Code. The public shall
be notified about issuing the permit and about the place where the content of the permit and
the statement of reasons for it (if required) are publicly available.
According to Article 28, the permit can be appealed and shall be considered within 14 days,
while the appeal decision, if challenged shall be adjudicated by the court within 2 months.
Standing in case of road construction permit is severely restricted. There is no requirement
for public participation procedure, which as a side effect excludes environmental NGOs to
have standing under Article 33 of EPLA.
Moreover: Articles 28 and 35 of the Building Law do apply as well. Article 28 limits
standing to persons having real property in the areas subjected under other laws to
restricted use because of the project (which in fact will be limited mainly to areas of
restricted use created under Article 135 of EPLA and Article 27 of the Special Roads
Procedure Act). It also excludes application of Article 31 of the Administrative Procedure
Code (which is the general basis for standing for all NGOs). Article 35 of the Building Law
provides that temporary injunction may be conditioned by an obligation to deposit a bond as
a security of claims related to potential losses of the developer.
The different stages of the entire procedure are illustrated in the table below.
39



8.2.1 Special EIA procedure for national roads
Applicant - General        Competent authority -    Consulting       Public
Director for National Roads Voivod                  authorities4
and Motorways                                       (health and
environmental)
Procedure for obtaining a siting decision
Most of EA provisions, including transboundary EA provisions, public participation and access to information
provisions apply; public announcement in Internet is obligatory.
Asks relevant authorities for
an opinion on proposed
location of a road
Give their
opinions (which
are not binding)
Submits to the competent
authority, an application for
siting decision + EIA report +
opinions of relevant
authorities
Files the application,                    In 21 days the public (including
commences the EIA                         NGOs) may submit comments
proceedings:                              and recommendations; in
- makes a public announcement             addition environmental
(notices in affected localities;          associations may participate in
announcements in local press              the proceedings with the
and Internet)                             parties' rights.
- makes documentation
available to the public
Issues the siting decision and
makes a relevant public
announcement
Procedure for obtaining a construction permit
Not all of EA provisions of EPLA apply; public participation procedure of EPLA does not apply; no requirement
to make public announcements in Internet
Prepares EIA report
Consults and agrees with
relevant authorities EIA report
for a construction permit
Submits to the competent
authority, an application for
siting decision + EIA report +
opinions of relevant
authorities
Files the application,                    Members of public, including
commences the EIA                         NGOs, may submit comments
proceedings:                              (complaints and motions) under
- announces to the public                 general rules of the
- makes documentation                     Administrative Procedure
available to the public                   Code. Special rights of NGOs
do not apply.
Issues a construction permit
and makes a relevant public
announcement
Starts construction
4 The construction permit requires also agreements with other authorities (e.g. fire prevention) under other than
environmental regulations which are not covered by this report
40



8.3 Differences between special EIA and general EIA procedure
EIA procedure under the Special Roads Procedure Act has some specific features which
makes it quite different from the general EIA scheme:
Screening - there is no screening: all roads are subject to mandatory EIA
Scoping - there is no scoping, requirements as to the content of EIA report are the same for all
projects and differ only depending of the stage of the procedure
EIA report - requirements as to its content are regulated in Annex 1 (for the stage of road
siting decision) and Annex 2 (for the stage of road construction permit), they are clearly
tailor-made for roads - slightly different but equivalent to those in the general EIA scheme
Alternatives - required, including "without-project" alternative, but no requirement for best
environmental alternative
Public participation - full public participation required only in the first stage - road siting
decision. At the stage of road construction permit the participation of the public is severely
restricted (no special rights for NGOs, limited possibilities to appeal and challenge permits at
courts),
Public disclosure - not different from the general EIA scheme - all documents are publicly
available through the system of publicly available records,
Competent authorities - all decisions are taken by the voivod - the regional govemor
nominated by the national government,
Role of environmental and health authorities - much more limited than in the general EIA
scheme. At the stage of road siting decision only opinions of environmental and health
authorities are required instead of their agreements as regulated by other laws. At the stage of
road construction permit agreements under other laws are required but in fact no such
requirement conceming environmental and health authorities in other laws applies,
Natural habitats - the Special Roads Procedure Act seems to allow to site roads within the
boundaries of national parks, which however is not allowed by the Nature Protection Act of
1991. The relation between the two Acts is not clear at all in this respect.
8.4 Comparison with the WB procedure
The Special Roads Procedure Act is often considered to be extremely anti-environmental and
its EIA scheme to be a significant step back in the development of environmental assessment
in Poland. Indeed, when compared with the "general" rules in Poland, this Act provides
lower level of environmental protection and public participation.
It seems however to provide the minimum standard required in the democratic country ruled
by law. In fact it does not differ much from the EA procedures applied in many western
European countries. In particular it seems to be generally in compliance with the WB EA
procedures and policies.
41



Proposed roads are subjected several times to environmental assessment in form of SEA at
the stage of plan and program and 2 times in form of EIA: at the stage of road siting decision
and that of road construction permit. In all cases there is full public disclosure and
possibilities for the public to participate. Environmental authorities have to be consulted, and
EIA reports have (?) a chance to be scrutinized by EA Commissions.
8.5 Review of EA Practice
In order to obtain an insight into the EA practice in the road sector some case-related
materials5 were studied and several interviews were held with relevant governmental bodies,
namely: Ministry of Infrastructure (Department of Financing of Infrastructure and European
Funds), General Directorate of National Roads and Motorways (Office for Project
Development; Environmental Division), Ministry of Environment (Department of
Environmental Protection Instruments) and a representative of the National EA Commission
as well as five environmental NGOs involved in road development related campaigns and
proceedings, including the Polish chapter of the CEE Bankwatch Network.
It should be pointed out that the findings on current practice presented in Chapter 6 of the
report apply to roads sector as well, in particular to roads of regional and local importance
(voivodship, county and municipal roads).
Till March 2003, i.e., before the Special Roads Procedure Act came into force, it could be said
that in reviewed cases and in the opinion of MOI and GDNRM officials, the Polish procedure
was satisfactory from the point of view of the WB requirements and the documents
(especially EIA reports) prepared as required by the Polish law provided sufficient basis for
generation of an aggregated report for the World Bank summarizing findings and procedures
of all stages of the development process.
According to a representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure who was involved in 12
projects financed by the World Bank, majority of cases no significant additional analysis or
study was required. The same relates to the WB's requirements for public participation. In
most cases, steps taken as required by the Polish law were sufficient.
5Poland Port Access and Management Project and Szczecin -Swinoujscie Seaway and Port Modernisation
Project, Supervision Mission April 19-27, 2001, Aide Memoire
Poland Port Access and Management Project (Project No P036061), Implementation Completion Report,
October 2003
Environmental Impact Assessment for the Proposed Brzesko Bypass in the Route of National Road No. 4,
Section km [475+541-475+810, 476+500-478+000], Report For The World Bank, February 2001
Environmental Impact Assessment for the Proposed Jedrzej6w Bypass in the Route of National Road No. 7,
Section km [554+941 - 560+736], Report For The World Bank, June 2001
NGO Statement on the Special Roads Procedure Act
Case oriented NGO reports and releases: Via Baltica, A4 highway, S1 (Katowice-Bielsko-Cieszyn); some of the
source materials are available at http://bankwatch.org/issues/mtransport.html as well as at
http://bankwatch.zie Ionasiec.p1
Statements of EA Commission related to S8 road (Via Baltica)
42



One of the presented case studies was the road crossing the Wolin National Park
constructed as part of the WB's project "Port Access and Management Project"
(Project No P036061). During the investment preparation process, negotiations were
carried out with the Administration of the National Park, which resulted in application
of solutions accepted as "best practice" in WB's documentation:
"... two best practices implemented under the project regarding environment
mitigation measures are now available for consideration by other Bank teams or other
Borrowers. For a start, skills and experience gained during preparation and
implementationi of Wolin National Park road rehabilitation could be utilized
elsewhere (e.g. the road pass through the Biebrza National Park in Eastern
Poland) ... .6
8.5.1 Special Roads Procedure Act
As it has already been explained earlier in this chapter, the Special Roads Procedure Act
changed significantly the legal requirements regarding national roads development process.
The new legal framework, however accepted by the Office of European Union Integration, is
being seriously questioned by non-governmental organizations as well as by the National EA
Commission.
The Commission has already applied to the Minister of Environment to take efforts to amend
the Act. The major objections are:
*  insufficient public participation provisions,
* no obligation to agree the road siting and construction conditions with the Environment
Minister (the Minister only provides opinions, which are not binding)
On the other hand, the representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure, General Directorate
of National Roads and Motorways have stressed that the procedure of siting and development
of the national roads under the previous legal framework was too complicated and time
consuming, which easily resulted in delaying and sometimes even blocking projects. That
opinion was largely confirmed by a representative of the Ministry of Environment, who
pointed out that especially appealing procedure could slow down or even stop the project
development process. A similar view is expressed by WB experts:
" Polish legalframework regarding acquisition of land, work permits and other
administrative authorizations is too cumbersome. As a result, the time requiredfor investment
identification and authorization for related works is far above EU average. This situation has
two major implications. First andforemost, it leads to significant delays and poor
programming during civil works implemenitation. There were some cases under the project
where more than 20 authorizations were neededfor the go-ahead. "
According to the new regulations, public participation is limited, however, as stated by most
of the interviewed governmental bodies, there is a major role for public participation at the
stage of local land-use plan, where the locations of roads are determined. Actually that is the
first formal approval of the location of a road. Very often it is at that stage that the case is
6 Poland Port Access and Management Project (Project No P036061), Implementation Completion Report,
October 2003
7 Poland Port Access and Management Project (Project No P03606 1), Implementation Completion Report,
October 2003
43



referred to the EA Commission, which evaluates all the environmental and social aspects. It
should also be mentioned that the location of major roads (thus also national roads) should be
proposed in land-use policies of the regional and national levels, which both require an
SEA under the EPLA provisions. That provides an opportunity to see the road in a larger
context not only as a section requiring an EIA.
It must be admitted, though, that such important policy documents as "National Transport
Policy" or "National Program of Highway Construction" have not been subjected to
SEA as provided for by EPLA, because they were adopted several years ago, under different
legal framework.
No wonder then that NGOs have been trying to bridge the gap, which may be illustrated by
the case of Via Baltica (S8 road) (Helsinki Corridor I from Helsinki to Warsaw).
The routing of Via Baltica will have critical impact on preservation of important
natural sites (four future Natura 2000 sites, including one Ramsar site). Although EIA
proceedings have already started with respect to some sections of the Via Baltica and
EA reports were referred to for review to the National EA Commission8, an NGO
coalition launched a campaign to revisit the routing of the entire road. Because of the
expected EU funding for the project, the NGOs publicized the case at the EU level
raising the issue of its compliance with the Birds and Habitats Directives as well as
EA related Directives. In April 2003 Warsaw meeting of the EU-Poland Joint
Parliamentary Committee stated in the final document that an SEA should be
performed for Via Baltica. A few months later, in August 2003, as a result of the NGO
efforts, during a joint meeting with the MOI, GDNRM and MoE it was agreed that an
SEA will be carried out for the Via Baltica as a whole with public participation and
NGO involvement secured during the process. The issue was also discussed by the
Standing Committee of the Convention on the Conservation of European Wildlife and
Natural Habitats on the 23rd Meeting Strasbourg (1-4 December-2003), which
recommended to prepare the "full Strategic Environment Assessment followed by a
detailed in-depth Environmental Impact Assessment Report, considering all
alternatives and variants possible, in order to minimise as far as possible any
deterioration of important areas, especially in view of the recognised nature values of
international importance of the Augustow Forest, the Biebrza National Park and the
Knyszynska Forest; the SEA/EIA should take into account potential effects oil the
Narev and Wigry National Parks as welr'.
Even if legal provisions on public participation are limited as a result of simplified
procedure, the practice shows that in those cases which raise significant environmental
concerns NGOs still can influence decision-making process.
It should be noted, that the Special Roads Procedure Act preserved the requirement of
public access to all the materials documenting the investment procedure.
Authorities more and more understand concerns and objections raised by NGOs and also
understand that it is more beneficial to start negotiations at the earliest possible stage, where
introduction of requested changes could be easier and less expensive. They are also afraid that
8 For instance in March 2003 the Commission pointed to the lack and necessity of SEA of S8 (section crossing
the Biebrzanski National Park), including alternatives; later in June 2003 when the SEA report of the relevant
regional land use plan was ready it pointed out deficiencies both in the report and the plan itself (lack of
planning alternatives, lack of measurable criteria, lack of analysis of possible mitigation measures) it also had
reservations to the public consultation process.
44



NGOs might be able to block funding from a strategic source (EIB, EBRD, PHARE etc.), on
the grounds of violating of environmental standards.
In the case of Si express road (Katowice-Bielsko-Cieszyn) involving an attempt to
change the legal status of a nature reserve which was supposed to be cut by the
proposed routing, the applicant (GDNRM) pressed by NGOs (who inforned about the
case the funding sources: European Investment Bank and European Commission)
organized two meetings and disclosed the full documentation of the planned project,
making it possible for NGOs to provide comments and recommendations to the EIA
report (at the siting stage).
In the case of road E69 (Beskid Zywiecki), already at the construction stage, an NGO,
posing a threat of blocking financing from international sources, forced the DGNR to
agree to build a passage for animals and to be consulted about its technical parameters
(size and exact location). The NGO was also invited to comment on the design
documentation in this respect of other sections of Al.
The need of considering environmental concerns and talking to the public slowly becomes
evident to the authorities. The GDNRM officials stressed their willingness to discuss the
environmental issues. They try to prepare their staff for communication with the public and
NGOs through professional training by psychologists and interpersonal relations experts.
Sometimes authorities, as the NGO respondents indicated, seek comments and
recommendations from NGOs at a very early stage of development planning to be able to
early identify (an prevent) possible conflicts.
The new procedure introduced by the Special Roads Procedure Act, allows also more
restricted conditions for resettlement and compulsory land acquisition. According to the
data provided by the GDNRM, it might be expected that the enforcement of the new Act
should not cause major problems.
Since 1996 over 30 thousand of allotments have been acquired for road construction
purposes, of which 15% were cases when owners did not want to agree voluntarily to
acquisition. Still, as the interviewed people stressed, in about 90% of those cases the parties
reached agreement in court without the necessity for further court intervention (overall there
were less than 100 court cases).
Summing up the findings, it must be stressed that since the Special Roads Procedure Act
came into force only in March 2003, it is too early to make a reliable judgement as to
practical implications of its enforcement - with respect to nature protection, public
participation etc. - as compared to EPLA or to the World Bank policies and procedures.
45



ANNEXES
46



ANNEX I
The origins of EA system in Poland: 1960s - 1990s
The EA system in Poland is a result of a long process of development. It started to be
introduced to legislation already in the beginning of the 60s when the Planning Regulation
of 1962 required that developers attach an environmental impact statement to a planning
application for an industrial project. It focused on emissions to air and noise and required at
least 3 alternatives to be considered. In 1971 the Planning Regulation of the Council of
Ministers further elaborated the above requirements to cover also impact on waters, soil and
natural habitats.
Later, EA got statutory grounds and was extended to cover also the existing activities: the
Environmental Protection Act of 1980 (EPA 1980) in Article 70 authorized environmental
authorities to require from the developers or managers of the existing facilities an "opinion"
on the environmental impact of their projects or facilities, and required that the opinion
should be prepared by an expert from the governmental list of EIA practitioners. Moreover,
the EPA 1980 provided environmental associations with special participation rights
concerning development proceedings, and supplemented here the provisions of Article 31 of
the 1960 Administrative Procedure Code (1960 APC). The EPA 1980 provided in Article 100
sec.2 that planning authority, before issuing a development consent relating to the project
likely to have a great environmental impact, shall inform the interested environmental
associations about the project. The associations may then, by virtue of Article 31 of 1960
APC, demand to be allowed to participate in the proceedings as the "participants with the
party's rights" or may limit themselves to give recommendations, and raise objections. In the
latter case the authority, by virtue of Article 100 sec. 3 of the EPA, is obliged to consider
these recommendations and objections as well as to inform the associations about the way the
recommendations and objections had been taken into consideration in the decision. Compared
to the general participation rights of associations provided by 1960 APC, those provisions
strengthened considerably the participation rights of associations in relation to development
control proceedings.
The following step in EA development in Poland was taken in the mid 80s when the Land Use
Planning Act of 1984 made EIA obligatory in case of projects "especially harmful for the
environment and human health", and empowered the Environment Minister to list categories
of these "especially harmful" projects, what he did in 1985 Regulations. The EIA however,
still did not play any significant role in development control since neither developers nor
authorities knew how to perform an EIA, there were no regulations setting requirements as to
the content of EIA reports and there were no procedures to evaluate their quality. As a result,
majority of projects were not made subject to EIA, and even if they were - the EIA reports
were of very poor quality.
A significant progress was made at the end of the 80s. First, the 1988 amendment to the Land
Use Planning Act of 1984 empowered the Environment Minister to set the requirements as to
the content of the EA report. Moreover, the subsequent Regulation of the Council of
Ministers of 1985 on categories of investment projects and procedure of their siting imposed,
without any clear statutory grounds, an EIA obligation not only on "especially harmful"
projects, but also any other project which "may cause harm to the environment" (though
categories of such projects were not listed). In 1989 the amendment to the EPA 1980 included
Annex I - I



changes in Article 68 resulting in introducing the requirement of EIA also at the construction
permit stage of development control. Article 70 of EPA was also supplemented with the
authorization for the Environment Minister to set the requirements as to the content of the EA
reports both at the siting stage and the construction permit' stage. In December 1989 also a
special EA body was established: the EIA Commission. The Commission was set as an
advisory body to the Environment Minister and consisted of 75 members, drawn from
academics and representatives of environmental NGOs and authorities. Its role was to
evaluate EIA reports concerning "especially harmful" projects and therefore to assist the
Minister in exercising his power to approve all planning permissions concerning these
projects. Despite the fact that the EIA Commission did not have any statutory grounds, it soon
established itself as an important actor in the Polish EA system.
Further significant changes to the EA system were introduced in the mid 90s with a host of
new laws and regulations concerning various aspects of development control. First, in 1993
the amendment to the EPA 1980 added a new Article 70a, which authorized the Environment
Minister to prescribe qualifications which EIA experts should have and the procedure for
listing the experts in the governmental roster. Yet, the most important of the new EA-related
laws was the Land Use Management Act of 1994, which regulated the key issues for the EA
legal framework, while the most controversial was the Toll Motorways Act of 1994, which
in relation to motorways introduced far reaching exceptions to the system. It provided for
three kinds of "impact assessments of motorways" (on the environment, on arable and
forestry grounds, and on cultural heritage) and included authorization (for relevant
Ministers) to prescribe the requirements to be met by these assessments. Moreover, the
Geological and Mining Law of 1994 required that while applying for various geological
and mining toncessions an "assessment of predicted impact" to be prepared pursuant to the
rules of the environmental protection law.
The Land Use Management Act of 1994 brought about the long advocated complement to the
project-related EIA system, by introducing Strategic Environmental Assessment, which
relates to programs, policies and plans. That complement, however, had a limited scope, as
it introduced SEA to local land use plans only. The Act required "prognoses of the effects of
the impact of the local land use plan on the natural environment" to be prepared, and
authorized the Environment Minister to prescribe the requirements to be met by such
prognoses. Those requirements were set by the Regulation of 9th March 1995. Also as
regards project-related EIA, the new Act brought about a certain progress as compared with
the old Land Use Management Act of 1984. It required that not only those development
projects which are defined as "especially harmful to the environment and human health" but
also development projects "which may cause harm to the environment" should be listed (both
categories were listed by the Regulations of 13 May 1995 on development projects harmful
to the environment and on environmental impact assessments).
Further changes were introduced with the amendment of August 1997 to 1980 Environmental
Protection Act. First of all it introduced the requirement of EIA in case of any water works
that may be harmful to nature. Quite important ones were also those related to public
participation in the EIA procedure as regulated in Article 100. The amendment introduced a
clear requirement for notification and participation of environmental NGOs in decisions
(planning permissions and construction permits) to authorise projects listed as "especially
' The term construction permit is used throughout the text for the sake of consistency. It must be noted however
that in official translations of laws and regulations other terms might also be encountered like: building permit,
building consent and construction consent.
Annex I - 2



harmful to the environment and human health" and as projects "which may cause harm to the
environment" (i.e.those requiring mandatory EIA, and extended the requirement for
notification also to local groups (equivalent to "parish councils") granting them statutory
standing in such proceedings. The 1997 Amendment to the EPA 1980 in Article 100.5 added
also a requirement that public authorities shall establish a list of associations which because of
their statutory goals are willing to be notified about applications for planning permissions and
construction permits requiring EIA.
The EIA regulatory framework was further changed with the general administrative reform in
1998 which together with creation of 16 regions (voivodships) and about 360 counties
(poviats) and consequent general decentralization resulted also in shifting EA related
responsibilities. Competences to approve projects listed as "especially harmful to the
environment and human health" were shifted down from the Environment Minister to
regional governors (voivods) while competences to approve projects "which may cause harm
to the environment" were moved down from regional (voivodship) to county (poviat) level.
1.1 Developments of the recent years: 2000 - 2003
In 2000 the EA legislation was rather complicated, obsolete and difficult to implement. It
used inconsistent, and sometimes even misleading terminology, there was a lack of
coherence between the provisions of various acts, some of them were so unclear that could
hardly be used in practice, some were out-dated because they referred to old legislation.
Moreover, it was incompatible with the requirements of the EU EIA and SEA Directives and
the UN ECE Espoo and Aarhus Conventions.
A significant progress that was made by Poland during the 90s in EA methodology and
qualifications of EA professionals working in agencies, consulting firms and industry, was not
reflected in legislation. The latter still employed tools designed to address problems specific
for the outset of EA in Poland.
The EA legal framework of early 2000 did not leave authorities any room in defining the
scope of assessment nor in screening development projects, which would trigger EIA
requirement. The approach of that time - which was listing categories of developments which
require EIA and prescribing detailed requirements to be met by all EIA reports - was justified
in the situation when EA was just being introduced and applied only to a relatively small
number of potentially most harmful projects.
Poland, notwithstanding of pioneering EIA in Central Europe, was lagging behind its
neighbours in this respect. The Polish legislation did not meet certain minimum European
"standard" set by the EU Directive 337/85 on EIA2, as well as by the Convention on EIA in
transboundary context (Espoo Convention) of which Poland was an initiator and
co-founder, and which was ratified without introducing legal framework to fulfill its
provisions. The Polish legislation in 2000 did not secure sufficient public participation in EIA
and had too limited scope of application (only NGOs and persons with legal interest could
participate while the general public did not have any rights). Besides, EIA in Poland was
2 Council Directive 85/337/EEC of 27 June 1985 on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private
projects on the environment
Annex I - 3



treated only as an expert's appraisal, and not as a process involving the participation of the
public and authorities concerned. Moreover, the EIA legislation in force in 2000 applied also
to existing activities (buildings), and the same general legal basis covered in fact two
different legal tools: "post-project analysis" and "environmental audit".
Harmonization of the Polish EIA legislation with the 337/85 Directive (as amended) and the
Espoo Convention required covering about 100 categories of projects. That, without
changing the existing approach, would entail an excessive burden for developers and
authorities, and would contribute to unnecessary worsening of the competitive position of
Poland towards investors. The way to avoid these adverse side-effects was to follow the
requirements of amended Directive 337/85, which provides for establishment of a special
screening procedure allowing to decide on case-by-case basis about the need of the full EIA
procedure and its scope.
Another problem was insufficient SEA application. In Poland SEA was required only in case
of local land use plans (the so called: "prognoses of the effects of the impact of the local plan
on the natural environment") prepared by municipalities (gminas). It was necessary to extend
that obligation, in accordance with the SEA Directive3 (in draft at that time) to cover also
programs, plans etc.prepared by governmental administration.
All of the above reasons prompted substantial changes in the Polish EA framework. Relevant
work started already in mid 90s. The changes in the EA legislation were originally meant to
be part of the huge reform of environmental law driven by the EU harmonization efforts. The
task however turned out to be so difficult, while the need to implement at least the
"horizontal EU requirements" and introduce changes in the EA set-up so pressing that it was
decided to separate out some issues from the general reform and first to adopt a new law
covering access to information, public participation as well as EIA and SEA. Thus the Act of
9 November 2000 on Access to Environmental Information and EIA was adopted. The Act
entered into force on 1st January 2001. Later its provisions, with minor editorial changes,
were incorporated into the Environmental Protection Law Act (EPLA) 27 April 2001, while
the Act of 9th November was recalled and is no longer in force.
EPLA has been meant to be the core of the entire new environmental law framework. It is a
code-like, extensive piece of legislation (440 Articles on 120 pages!) which provides not only
a kind of "General Part" for the entire environmental legislation (principles, procedures etc),
but also regulates a few substantive issues (namely: air and noise control). This act itself
transposes as much as 21 EU Directives, including the IPPC Directive4, the EIA Directive, the
SEA Directive, the Seveso II Directive5, the Access to Information Directive6 and the
Ambient Air Quality Framework Directive7, as well as several international treaties including
the Espoo and Aarhus Conventions. It is strictly interrelated with the new Waste Act (which
itself is also quite extensive) via a number of direct legal cross-references. Because of those
3Directive 2001/42/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 June 2001 on the assessment of the
effects of certain plans and programmes on the environment
4Directive 2001/42/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 June 2001 on the assessment of the
effects of certain plans and programmes on the environment
5 Council Directive 96/82/EC of 9 December 1996 on the control of major-accident hazards involving dangerous
substances
6 Council Directive 96/82/EC of 9 December 1996 on the control of major-accident hazards involving dangerous
substances
7 Council Directive 96/82/EC of 9 December 1996 on the control of
major-accident hazards involving dangerous substances
Annex I - 4



links both acts had to be adopted and enter into force together. In order to set this entire legal
operation in motion without unnecessary legal uncertainty, a special, quite extensive (53
Articles) Act on introducing the environmental protection act and waste act and on changes in
some other legal acts was prepared and adopted.
The new EA framework, as introduced on 1 January 2001 provides for 3 separate procedures
for SEA, EIA and transboundary procedure which are all related to respective procedures for
adopting plans, programs etc or issuing development consents for projects. While a number of
activities subject to assessment increased significantly, also screening and scoping were
introduced and it was hoped that the overall burden will be reduced. Moreover, introduction
of participation rights for the general public was accompanied by abandoning the previous
requirement of individual written notifications of NGOs, while keeping their rights to
challenge decisions at courts .
Not all the changes have proved successful. The assessment procedure was in most cases
required in relation to at least three consecutive stages of development control (adopting land
use plan, issuing siting conditions, and issuing construction permit). Only in relatively few
cases authorities decide to screen out projects from Group II. Both NGOs and immediate
neighbors challenge many projects at courts usually questioning the correctness of handling
the EIA procedure.
All of that has prompted some recent changes. The new Land Use Act of 2003 (in force since
July) reduced the requirement of EA to 2 stages - if there is a local land use plan subject to
SEA, developers do not need any siting procedure but only a construction permit, where again
an EIA is required. Some changes were also introduced in the Building Law (also in force
since July 2003) limiting the possibilities of challenging the decisions of the authorities by the
project neighbors and NGOs.
Annex I - 5



ANNEX 11
Comparison of project types subject to EA in the World Bank and the Polish system
In the table below a demonstrative comparison is presented between projects subject to EA procedure according to the World Bank and Polish
regulations. Since the approach in both systems differs, it should be noted that types of projects included in categories A and B are not exclusive
and that projects of Groups I and 2 could also be subprojects of WB's projects, others then presented below.
Types of World Bank  Group 1 projects in the Polish system                         Group 2 projects in the Polish system
Projects
Category A projects - World Bank
Aquaculture and                                                                    - rearing of fish in fish ponds, where the production is over 4 tonnes of
mariculture (large-                                                                fish per I ha of a pond surface (for carp and similar fish), and rearing of
scale)                                                                             trout, where the production is I tonne of fish with water consumption of
I l/s,
Dams and reservoirs  - artificial water reservoirs for storage of 10 million cubic meters or  - artificial water reservoirs, dams or other installations designed to store
more, dams or other installations designed for the holding back or  or hold water on a height of I m or more,
permanent storage of water, where a holding back height is 5 m or
more,
Forestry production  - wood and paper industry:                                    - afforestation of an area over 20 ha or deforestation of area of I ha or
projects             a) installations for production pulp from timber or similar fibrous  more carried out in order to change land use,
materials,
b) installations for production of paper and cardboard with a production
capacity of 200 tonnes per day or more;
Hazardous waste      - installations for hazardous waste disposal and recovery, including  - collection of hazardous waste
management and       landfills of hazardous waste
disposal             - installations for the reprocessing of nuclear fuel or radioactive waste:
a) for the processing of irradiated nuclear fuel,
b) for the production or enrichment of nuclear fuel,
c) for the processing of irradiated nuclear fuel or high level radioactive
waste,
d) for the final disposal of irradiated nuclear fuel,
e) solely for the final disposal of radioactive waste,
f) solely for the storage (planned for more then 10 years) or irradiated
ANNEX II- I



nuclear fuel or radioactive waste in a different site than the production
site,
Industrial plants     - agriculture - rearing of livestock or other animals with more then 240  chemical industry:
(large-scale) and     equivalent units (one equivalent unit - I cow);                  - installations for manufacturing of final products using mixing,
industrial            - chemical industry - installations for the manufacture of substances  emulgation or confectioning of chemical intermediate products or basic
estates, including    using chemical processes, which are for the:                     products,
major expansion,      a) refining of gas or crude oil, excluding installations manufacturing  - installations for the gasification or liquefaction of coal or bituminous
rehabilitation,       only lubricants from crude oil,                                  shale not mentioned in Group I or installations for manufacturing of
or modification       b) gasification and liquefaction of 500 tonnes or more of coal or  lubricants from crude oil;
bituminous shale per day,                                        energy industry:
c) production of basic organic chemicals or intermediate products,  - industrial installations for briquetting of coal and lignite;
including paints and varnishes, elastomers, rubber or peroxides  - installations for processing or storage of radioactive waste not
d) production of basic inorganic chemicals or intermediate products,  included in Group 1,
including peroxides,                                             metallurgical and metal processing industry:
e) production of phosphorous-, nitrogen- or potassium-based fertilizers, - installations for the roasting and sintering of iron ores not included in
g) production of pharmaceutical products, including installations using  Group 1,
biological processes,                                            - installations for the secondary smelting of non-ferrous metals or their
h) production of explosives;                                     alloys, including refining or processing of recovered metals, not
included in Group 1,
- metallurgy and metal processing:                               - installations for surface treatment of metals and plastic materials using
a) installations for the primary and secondary smelting of cast-iron and  a chemical or electrolytic processes, not included in Group 1,
steel, including continuous casting installations,               - installations for surface treatment of substances or products using
b) installations for roasting or sintering of metal ores, including sulphur  organic solvents, not included in Group 1,
ore, excluding iron ore,                                         - installations for the processing of ferrous metals:
c) installations for the primary production of non-ferrous from ore,  - smitheries, foundries, rolling mills and installations for application of
concentrates or recovered products by metallurgical, chemical or  metal coats, not included in Group 1,
electrolytic processes,                                          - drawing mills,
d) installations for the roasting and sintering of iron ore with an annual  - installations for the production of boilers, tanks or other containers
capacity of 500 000 tonnes or more,                              made of sheet metal,
e) installations for the secondary smelting of non-ferrous metals and  - installations for the manufacture and assembly of motor vehicles or
their alloys, including refining or processing of recovered products,  mechanical equipment and manufacture of motor-vehicle engines,
with a capacity of 4 tonnes per day for lead and cadmium or exceeding  - shipyards,
20 tonnes per day for other metals, excluding precious metals,   - installations for the construction and repair of aircraft,
f) installations for surface treatment of metals and plastic materials  - installations for the manufacture or repair of railway equipment,
using an electrolytic or chemical processes, in which volume of process  - installations for the swaging of explosives;
tanks amounts to 30 m3 or more,                                  Textile, leather. wood and paper industry and poligraphy:
g) installations for surface treatment of substances, objects and  - installations for washing, degreasing or dyeing of fibres or textiles,
_  products, using organic solvents, in which volume of used solvents  - sawmills, wood processing plants, installations for the production of
ANNEX 11- 2



amounts to 150 kg per hour or more or over 200 tonnes per year,  hardboards, plywood or furniture,
g) installations for the working of ferrous metals:          - installations for the tanning or enrichment of leather,
- smitheries with hammers of a power exceeding 50 kl per hammer,  - installations for the manufacture of paper and board, not included in
where a total thermal power exceeds 20 MW,                   Group 1, installations for processing of cellulose,
- foundries with a capacity of 20 tonnes per day or more,    - installations for printing;
- rolling mills with a capacity exceeding 20 tonnes of crude steel per  Rubber industry - installations for the manufacture and treatment of
hour,                                                        elastomer-based products;
- installations for the application of metal coats, with load of more then
2 tonnes of steel per hour;
Irrigation, drainage,  a) infrastructure for transfer of water resources in order to increase  - canalization or flood-relief works, excluding maintenance and
and flood control    capacity of other water resources:                           reconstruction,
(large-scale)        - where the amount of water transferred exceeds 100 mln m3 per year,  - open channels or pipelines of a diameter of 400 mm or more for water
- where the annual average multiannual flow in the basin from which  transport,
water is transferred amounts to 2 000 million cubic meters and where  - dykes, embankments, piers or other coastal works or constructions
amount of transferred water exceeds 5% of the flow;          altering the coast, excluding maintenance and reconstruction,
b) lines for railway traffic of national importance,
Land clearance and                                                                a) industrial estates of an area of I ha or more,
leveling                                                                          b) housing and service estates of and area of 2 ha or more, or shopping
centres of an area of I ha or more and associated infrastructure,
c) projects on military lands of an area of 10 ha or more,
Manufacture,         - extraction of asbestos or installations for processing of asbestos and  - installations for the disposal of asbestos or products containing
transportation, and  products containing asbestos, including:                     asbestos, not included in Group 1, installations for the production or
use of pesticides or  - asbestos-cement products, with an annual production of 200 tonnes or  processing of products containing asbestos,
other hazardous      more of finished product,
and/or toxic materials - friction material, with an annual production of 50 tonnes or more of
finished product,
- transport or disposal of asbestos or products containing asbestos, with
an annual capacity of 200 tonnes or more;
- production of plant health products and of biocides,
- production of pesticides and explosives
Mineral development - quarries and open-cast mining where the surface of the site is 25 ha or  - open-cast mining (not included in Group 1), excluding projects, of
(including oil and gas) more,                                                     capactiy of not more than 20 000 cubic meters,
- underground mining or related installations for processing of extracted - underground mining, not included in Group 1,
material where the amount extracted or processed annually is 100.000  - extraction of minerals from the sea or fresh water (not included in
m3or more,                                                   Group 1)
ANNEX II - 3



- extraction of petroleum or natural gas, where the amount extracted is  - search or investigation of mineral resources, when explosives are used,
18000 tonnes per year in the case of petroleum or 70 000 000 m3 in the  - containerless substance storing in rockmass or waste disposal in
case of gas, and extraction of extraction of petroleum or gas from the  rockmass, including underground mine workings
sea;                                                         - surface industrial installations related to extraction of minerals, not
- installations for the transport of crude oil, oil products, chemical  included in Group 1;
substances or gas with a diameter of 800 mm or more and a length of 40 - installations for the transport of oil, oil products, chemical substances
km or more with auxiliary infrastructure (eg. pumping stations),  not included in Group 1, including installations located in the sea,
including installations located in the sea,                  - installations for the transport of gas (not included in Group 1),
- installations for storage of petroleum, petrochemical or chemical  installations for the transport of steam or hot water and associated
products with a total capacity of 10 000 cubic meters or more with  pumping stations or reductive stations, excluding gas pipelines with a
reloading infrastructure,                                    pressure not exceeding 0,5 Mpa,
- installations for dry coal distillation, including coke ovens,  - installations for the storage or distribution of oil and oil products and
- installations for the manufacture of cement or cement clinker in rotary  chemicals, including petrol stations, not included in Group 1,
kilns with a capacity exceeding 500 tonnes per day or lime in furnaces  - underground storage of flammable gas,
of a capacity exceeding 50 tonnes per day,                   - surface storage of fossil fuels, not included in Group 1, or surface
storage of natural gas, excluding gas tanks with volume not exceeding
10 cubic meters or oil tank with volume not exceeding 3 cubic meters,
- installations for the manufacture of cement or cement clinker or lime,
not included in Group 1,
- installations for the manufacture of concrete or bituminous mass,
- installations for the manufacture of glass, including glass fibre,
- installations for smelting mineral substances, including the production
of mineral fibres,
- installations for the manufacture of ceramic products by burning, with
annual capacity of 50 tonnes or more;
Geology and mining- drillings:
- drilling for brine, thermal or healing water,
- drilling for the storage of nuclear waste material,
- drilling for drinking water supplies, deeper than 100 m,
New construction or  - motorways or express roads, national roads with a continuous length  - paved public roads, not included in Group 1, with a length of I km or
major upgrading of   exceeding 10 km or other public roads of four or more lanes and  more,
highways             continuous length exceeding 10 km,
or rural roads
Port and harbor      - inland ports or water ways for inland waterway traffic - which permit  - ports not included in Group 1, excluding ports of pier with a length not
development          the passage of vessels of 1 350 tonnes or more,              exceeding 80 more,
- ports, piers, including loading and unloading connected to land and  - inland waterways, not included in Group 1,
outside ports (excluding ferry piers), which can take vessels of over 1
350 tonnes
ANNEX 11 - 4



Reclamation and new                                                              - reclamation of land from the sea or fresh water;
land development                                                                 - industrial estates of an area of I ha or more,
- housing and service estates of and area of 2 ha or more, or shopping
centres of an area of I ha or more and associated infrastructure,
- projects on military lands of an area of 10 ha or more
Resettlement'
River basin
development2
Thermal power and   - conventional power and thermal power stations and other installations  - power stations, thermal power stations or other installations for the
hydropower          combusting fuels for electrical or thermal power generation, with input  combustion of fuels for production of electric or thermal energy not
development or      power of 300 MW or more,                                     mentioned in Group 1, with a total power of 25 MW, and with a solid
expansion           electrical power intermediary stations or overhead electrical power lines fuel use of 10 MW,
with a voltage of 220 kV or more                             - electric intermediary stations with a voltage of 110 kV or more not
included in Group I
- hydropower stations with a nominal power of 2,5 MWe or more,
Water supply and    - waste water treatment plants with a capacity of 100 000 population
wastewater collection, equivalents or more,
treatment and
disposal projects
(large-scale)
Types of Group I projects not directly mentioned in World Bank categories:
- infrastructure:
a) groundwater abstraction, drainage systems or artificial groundwater
recharge schemes where the capacity is equivalent to 500 m3/h,
d) airports with a basic runway length of 2 000 m or more,
- other proiects:
a) installations for disposal of non-hazardous waste using incineration
or chemical processes, excluding installations for incineration of landfill
gas, straw or waste from mechanical processing of wood, installations
for disposal of waste from agriculture, horticulture, aquaculture, fishery,
silviculture, hunting, food processing and waste from autoclav,
b) landfills of ballast waste or non-hazardous waste with a capacity of
20 tonnes of waste per day or more,
c) radio-telecommunication, radio-navigation i radiolocation
installations, which emit electromagnetic field of 100 W or more with a
qfreuency between 30 kH and 300 GHz,
Modifications
ANNEX 11 - 5



Modification of Group I projects, which as such is:
a) included in Group 1,
b) not included in Group I and 2, but which causes:
- that the project with the modification is included in
Group 1, or
- increase in emission with 20% or more, or
- increase in consumption of raw materials, fuel or
energy with 20% or more;
2) modification of Group 2 projects, which causes that the project with
the modification is included in Group 1;
Category B projects - World Bank
Agro-industries                                                                   agriculture
(small-scale)                                                                     - restructuring of agriculture or forested land holdings with a surface of
50 ha or more,
- change of forested or not cultivated land sites to agriculture land, on
the area of I ha or more,
- rearing of livestock, with 50 or more of equivalent units,
- rearing of exotic animals, with more than 20 individuals or 4 mothers,
excluding fish and crustaceans,
food industry:
- installation for the manufacture of vegetable and animal oils and fats,
- installations for the processing of fruit, vegetables raw fish or animal
products, excluding animal fats,
- installations for manufacture of milk or dairy products, with an annual
capacity of 50 tonnes or more,
- breweries or melting installations,
- installations for the manufacture of confectionery or syrups, with an
annual capacity of 50 tonnes,
- installations for the slaughter of animals,
- industrial starch manufacturing installations,
- installations for the manufacture of fish-meal or fish-oil,
- sugar factories,
- distilleries,
- installations for packing and canning of animal and vegetable
products;
Electrical           - electric power intermediary stations or overhead electrical power lines - electric power intermediary stations with a voltage of 110 kV or more
transmission         with a voltage of 220 kV or more,                            not included in the Group I
Energy efficiency and
energy conservation2
ANNEX 11 - 6



Irrigation and                                                                       - water management in agriculture, including irrigation and drainage
drainage (small-scale)                                                               systems on the area of 20 ha or more, excluding fish ponds,
Protected areas and  not applicable                                                  not applicable
biodiversity
conservation
Rehabilitation or
maintenance of
highways or rural
Roads3
Rehabilitation or
modification of
existing
industrial facilities
(small-scale)4
Renewable energy     - installations for the harnessing of wind power for energy production  - installations for the harnessing of wind power for energy production of
(other than          (wind farms), with a total capacity of 100 MW;                  total height of 30 m or more;
hydroelectric dams)
Rural electrification  - electric power intermediary stations or overhead electrical power lines - electric power intermediary stations with a voltage of 110 kV or more
with a voltage of 220 kV or more,                              not included in Group I
Rural water supply                                                                   - installations for wastewater treatment, not included in Group 1, with a
and sanitation                                                                       capacity not exceeding 400 population equivalent and sewerage
systems,
- installations for recovery or disposal of solid waste, not included in
Group 1, in particular:
- sewage sludge deposition sites, with an area not exceeding
0,5 ha,
- installations for storage of scrap iror., including storage with
initial sorting and treatment, with an area not exceeding 0,5 ha,
- installations for disposal of waste from agriculture,
horticulture, aquaculture, fishing, forestry, hunting, food
processing and autoclave waste,
- installations for recovery and disposal of explosives,
- cemeteries, crematoria,
Tourism                                                                              a) ski- and bobsleigh- runs, ski-lifts and associated developments,
b) stadiums for 5.000 people or more,
c) holiday villages or hotel complexes for 100 people or more and
associated developments, located within 500 m from the protected area
of the national park or nature reserve or I km from the border of the
reserve, or on the land bordering with forests or agriculture lands,
ANNEX II - 7



d) permanent camp sites and caravan sites for 100 people or more,
e) marinas for 50 yachts or more,
f) leisure parks of an area of 5 ha or more;
Watershed projects
(management or
rehabilitation)3
Types of Group 2 projects not directly mentioned in World Bank categories:
Infrastructure:
- projects on military lands of an area of 10 ha or more,
- car parks for 100 lorries or more or 300 cars or more,
- railway, not included in Group I or intermodal terminals,
- airfields not included in Group 1,
- tramways, elevated and underground railways, suspended lines of a
particular type, and associated infrastructure, used exclusively or mainly
for passenger transport,
- groundwater abstraction or artificial groundwater recharge schemes.,
not included in Group 1, with a capacity of 10 cubic meters per hour or
more,
- surface water abstraction, with a capacity of 50 cubic meters or more,
- works for the transfer of water resources between river basins, not
included in Group 1,
- road frontier crossings and custom terminals;
other projects:
- racing and test tracks for motorized vehicles,
- test benches for engines, turbines or reactors,
- service stations for motorized vehicles, building and agriculture
equipment, with 3 or more stands,
- embrasures,
- radio-communication, radio-nawvigation and radiolocation
installations, which emit electromagnetic fields with a power of 15 W or
more with a frequency from 30 KHz to 300 GHz (not included in Group
1),
- installations related to disposal of salinated waters from mining and
used brine,
- installations for the manufacture of fuel of vegetable products,
Modifications
Modification of projects from Group 1, which as such is not included in
Groups I and 2, but which causes:
ANNEX 11- 8



1) increase in emission with 20% or more or
2) increase in consumption of raw materials, fuel, or energy with 20%
or more
Resettlement is not treafed as a separate type of development, since resettlement could be a consequence of planning another project. More information on the legal aspects
of resettlement is given in section 5.9.
2 As such not included in either of the project groups of the Polish system, however if it involves projects listed in either of the groups, the projects will be subject to EIA
accordingly. The relevant plan would be subject to SEA if it is prepared by the national or regional authorities and also its development is required by other laws.
3 Rehabilitation, maintenance and management operations are not a subject under EIA regulations, those operations are regulated by IPPC requirements, emission standards
etc. (see section 5.1.1).
4 Rehabilitation, maintenance and management operations are not a subject under EIA regulations, those operations are regulated by IPPC requirements, emission standards
etc. (see section 5.1.1). Modification of developments is a separate category in the Polish law (see Modifications section under Types of Group 2 projects not directly
mentioned in World Bank categories in the table above).
ANNEX 11 - 9



ANNEX Ill
Environmental Assessment in Poland.
Unpublished results of a survey carried out by the National
Foundation of Environmental Protection.
Counties                                Re ions
1999      2000                  1997     1998     1999     2000
do1nolqskie                  67       197                   482      484      315       111
kujawsko-pomorskie            74       315                   190      220       72        49
lubelskie                     42       218                   271      178      2121       56
lubuskie                       7       161           no data                       I .
l6dzkie                       53       328                   134      166      208        14
malopolskie                   64       358                   315      279      397       175
mazowieckie                   77       463                   991     1140      538       123
opolskie                       6        99                   173      203      135        54
podkarpackie                  79       168                   206      189      172        77
podlaskie                     68       109                   158      142      120        50
pomorskie                    165       339                   255      433      160        98
tlaskie                      224       548                  1184     1194      299       177
swietokrzyskie                31        97           no data
warmirisko-mazurskie          82       131                    84      106       45        17
wielkopolskie                 45       305                   805      599      477        97
zachodniopomorskie             25      142                   380      315      339       115
S U MA      1109      3978 ___              5628     5648     3489      1213
ANNEX Ill - I



ANNEX IV
Discussion of survey results
1.1 Explanatory note
The results are provided for the different public authority administration units covered by the
survey. The PAA municipal and county units were selected as to represent a diversity of
cases. Their characteristics and symbols are given in the table below.'
Local
Area   Population  businesses Revenue
Symbol     PAA unit                      institutions               Profile
per
km2       thou       thou.     capita
City with                                           trade, services,
CMI       county rights  79,5       128,0        12,5    2178 electromechanical
industry
CM2      City with     262,0       461,7       57,9     1976 big port city
county rights
RMI       Rural         454,8        15,3         6,1  no data tourism, agriculture,
municipality                                        forestry
UMI       Urban          36,6         6,7         0,6    2155 bigmetalworks,trade,
municipality                                        service
UM2       Urban          160,8                    0,6    1364 chemical industry
municipality   6
UM3       Urban          123,4       66,8         6,2    1660 chemical industry
municipality
U4   Urban         22181,                     ,      16trade, services, mineral
UM4       municipality  221,          12,4        0,6    1116 industry.
CI        County        1798,7      105,2         5,1    1401 industry, agriculture
C2        County        1364,3       90,2         6,7    1340 tourism, forestry
C3        County        246,3        142,0       18,5    1615 industry, trade, services
C4        County        396,1        47,2         3,2    1203 tourism
C5        County        1383,0       106,8        8,4    1390 fruit growing, services
'The data as of end of 2002 except for RM I, where of end of 2001
Annex IV - I



1.2 Number of EIA proceedings
The number of EIA proceedings carried out annually in Poland could be estimated at about 4
-5 thousands (according to unpublished survey conducted by the National Foundation for
Environmental Protection, 2000)2. The data from year 2000 indicate that about 25% of all the
EIA procedures were conducted for projects included in group I, and the rest in group II.
Proceedings for Group 1 projects
.The results of the survey conducted for the needs of this report indicate that on municipal
level there are only few Group 1 projects per year. Even in a city of over 500,000 inhabitants
over the last three years the annual maximum was 4 projects (noted in 2002, while in 2001
and 2003 the results were 2 and 1 respectively).
MUNICIPALITIES: Number of EIA proceedings - Group 1
3          S-l                  .,         .     ' 1    &->- fb
 -  -           1-> -- ..D         ,    1       ,i - z   ' -'  '.   _   1 
RM1       UMi       UMQ        UM3       UM4       CM1       Ctm2
U 2001 *2002 02003
The EIA proceedings carried out for Group I projects involve consultations and approval on
regional (voivodship) level. The number of proceedings which were consulted by the
surveyed voivodship offices is more differentiated then on municipal (gmina) or county
(poviat) level. The number of Group I project varies from 60 to 200, with average of 120.
Usually the projects are industrial or infrastructural developments (waste water management
or solid waste management) or aerial masts of mobile telephony. The interviewed officials
indicated that during the last 3 years mobile telephony constituted the prevailing majority of
projects. In earlier years the number of Group I projects consulted by the regional level was
more differentiated and more clearly reflected the level of development and industrialization
of a given region.
2 See Annex III
Annex IV - 2



REGIONS: Number of EIA proceedings - Group 1
500                                               *    ;.'
450
400
350
300
250 .;.'    .   ;  ';.     |    .,i                    ,_
200,     ,r       .i      .s:                       --
150                 <                (;|i|t^&FL'' .
50
Rl         R2         R3         R4         R5
E 1999 *2000 02001 02002 *20033
Proceedings for Group 2 projects
The annual number of EIA procedures for Group 2 projects carried out by municipal level,
varies from 0 in rural or small urban municipalities to over 100 in a large city. In medium size
towns there were approximately 20 projects per year.
MUNICIPALITIES: Number of BA proceedings - Group 2
180
160            -
140                                                - -     -
120    -                         . ', 1        '_
100
80                                 IV -  3
60                               . 
40             .
20
0                                     _ _ _
RM1       UMi      UM2       UM        UM4      cm1       c
E12001 *2002 02003
Annex IV - 3



MUNICIPALITIES: Percentage of EIA reports - Group 2
100                             *
80   -
40                                                               A', '
20               ~~"
RMI      UMi      UM2      UM       UM4      CM1      c
0 2001 U 2002 02003
EIA reports for Group 2 projects are revised and finally approved by the county level
authorities (poviats). The number of consulted proceedings in surveyed poviats are vary
considerably,, ranging from 20 to 50 in poviats with a low and medium level of
industrialization to almost 100 in poviats where economic development is more intensive.
It should be noted that among Group 2 projects, the mobile telephony projects are also a
majority.
The need of EIA report for Group 2 projects is determined by the competent authorities
(municipal level) after consultation with county (poviat) authorities. The results of the survey
show that in a majority of cases EIA reports are required on both- municipal and county
levels.
COUNTIES: Number of EIA proceedings - Group 2
80
60
40
20
0
C1         C2         C3         C4          C5
IS92001 * 2002 020031
In most of the surveyed regions, the reports are being prepared for 75 to 100% of cases. There
were two counties (poviats) and one municipality (gmina) where reports were prepared for 30,
50 and 60% of cases respectively. The interviewed officials indicated that for similar projects
located in not sensitive areas the existing reports are sufficient as a reference for new projects
of the same type and that is why they decided not to ask for EA reports. Again it should be
noted that mobile telephony masts constitute a large share of projects. It can be concluded that
Annex IV - 4



the percentage of reports required may indicate the expertise of the authorities, especially on
county (poviat) level.
COUNTIES: Percentage of EIA reports - Group 2
100                      -
80
60
40
20
C1         C2          C3         04         05
l 2001 * 2002 D 2003
1.3 Time length of the EIA proceedings
Most of the surveyed authorities indicate that the average EIA process lasts from I to 3
months, which is a standard time according to administrative regulations.
However when there is a need to correct the EIA report, the process could last even 6 months
or longer. It depends mainly on the applicant and consultants correcting the report.
In some cases also public participation process influences the timing. Proceedings for more
controversial projects take longer, and in case consensus with the public is not reached,
appeals are submitted to the Supreme Administrative Court.
1.4 Quality of EA reports
The quality of EA reports was assessed based on the number of reports which required
corrections and opinions of the interviewed officials.
It could be estimated that from the total number of EIA reports prepared for group I projects,
reviewed by the voivodship authorities, around 10 to 50% are returned for correction. On the
county (poviat) level the number of reports which needed improvement is smaller and
amounts to 10 to 20%. Municipal authorities basically do not review reports, especially in
smaller municipalities, where qualified staff is lacking. They send reports for evaluation to
county (poviat) or regional (voivodship) authorities and rely on their opinion. However it does
not apply to larger cities, which have professional personnel in-house.
According to the reviewing officials EIA reports in general are of good quality, especially
when they are prepared by experienced professionals or companies. However reports do not
always comply with the regulations regarding the scope, and very often they contain too much
of irrelevant data, and conclusive part is not sufficient. Because of the deficiencies, review of
the EIA reports is very time consuming.
It could be concluded that regional (voivodship) authorities are very well prepared for a
revision and analysis of the EIA reports. Even if the personnel is scarce, still it is experienced
and professional. The situation is different at county (poviat) level, especially in rural and not
Annex IV - 5



industrialized regions. County authorities have been in existence since 1999 and they do not
have sufficient experience or practice, very often lacking qualifications to deal with more
difficult projects or situations.
It should be mentioned that in case when competent and consulting authorities have doubts
and the EIA report does not address certain more complicated issues, there is a possibility to
send the case for review to the regional (voivodship) or national EA Commission, which
consist of highly qualified EA practitioners and scientists. At the moment only isolated cases
are submitted to regional ( voivodship) Commissions for consultations in the surveyed regions
(up to 5% of the total number). However those EA Commissions have been established only
recently or not yet, therefore it could be expected that their role in the future will grow.
The national EIA Commission has existed for many years already and has a lot of experience.
It analyses 5-6 cases per year. Those are the most controversial cases, usually located in the
sites of special natural or social and cultural values or sensitivity and of regional or national
importance (most of the cases concern motorways or national roads construction and large
scale infrastructural projects, e.g., waste management projects).
1.5 Public participation in EIA procedure
Participation of the general public in EIA procedures does not have a long tradition in
Poland. In fact relevant regulations setting a framework for public participation were
introduced by Environmental Protection Law Act, which came in force in October 2001.
Therefore it happens very often that the public concerned does not fully realize what rights
they have and what exactly they can or cannot do. The practice shows that only in circa 10%
of EIA procedures there are any comments made by the public, and only in individual,
controversial cases there are 20-50 people or groups delivering comments. It is confirmed by
the number of public hearings organized as part of EIA proceedings, which does not exceed
10% of the total number.
Also non-governmental organizations, which have the right to participate in the procedure as
a party, are not very active. However in some regions there are organizations, which would
like to participate in every proceedings.
On the other hand there is a procedure of appeals, which can be commenced by one of the
parties after a decision is made. That procedure is used in most controversial cases, however it
is difficult to state to what extent it relates to environmental issues.
It should however be stated that not only the public but also competent authorities are not
fully accustomed with public participation in EA procedures. They are not active in
announcing to the public that there are proceedings going on and they do not encourage the
community members to start a discussion. Some authorities still have an approach that the
public is not on the their side and should be treated as an opposition. It is visible on all levels
of authorities.
Another aspect is that there could be a conflict of interests for the local authorities who would
like to promote and encourage economic development (especially in the regions with high
unemployment) and treat environmental issues as less important.
Annex IV - 6



It seems that in many cases public administration authorities treat public participation merely
as a burden and minimize their efforts in this respect as much as allowed by law. The reason
of that is lack of experience and training as well as limited human resources.
Annex IV - 7



