Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB629 
Project Name 
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation project 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Roads and highways (100%) 
Project ID 
P078170 
Borrower(s) 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Implementing Agency 
 
 
Ministry of Finance 
12 Swietokrzyska Str. 
Poland 
Tel: (48-22) 694-31-71 
Fax: (48-22) 826-66-70 
agr@mofnet.gov.pl 
 
GDDKiA 
59, Zelazna Street 
Poland 
Tel: (48-22) 455-86-04 
 Fax: (48-22) 455-87-70 
dskowronski
@gddkia.gov.pl
 
 
NRSC 
4/6 Chalubinskiego str.   
00-928 Warsaw 
Poland 
Tel: (48-22) 630 12 58             Fax: (48-22) 830 00 80 
agrzegorczyk@mi.gov.pl 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [ ] C   [x] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
February 25, 2004 (Update) 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
February 12, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
March 30, 2004 
 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
The road network in Poland has been the victim of under-investment in maintenance, renewal and modernization.  It 
is estimated that Polish consumers spend the equivalent of about 16% of GDP on vehicle operating costs (vehicles, 
fuels, wages, etc.), on top of which road accidents cost society about 2% of GDP in physical damage, medical costs 
and lost productivity.  Overall quality and road safety of the road network falls far short of the standards expected of 
a country preparing to enter the European Union (EU) in May this year. 
 
The poor quality of the road network is a key factor that increases the cost of doing business.  Many Polish road 
structures date from the central planning era when traffic volume was lower and axle loads were lighter (most long-
distance transport was by rail; and Polish roads were built for 6 to 10 ton axle loads versus the current EU norm of 
11.5 ton).  Over the past decade the demand for road transport has grown radically, e.g., the number of vehicles in 
Poland increased from 9 million in 1990 to about 15 million today, but increases in the supply have not kept pace, 
nor a strategic (long-haul) network as been developed, specially to increase the quality of links with neighbor 
countries. 
 
The road sector is facing four major policy issues that are currently being addressed by the 
Government; (i) weak capacity of the GDDKiA to implement an expanded and ambitious road 
program during the coming years; (ii) insufficient level of resource to finance road maintenance, 
Page  2
 
2
rehabilitation and new investment; (iii) poor planning capacity for both maintaining and 
expending the national roads network; and (iv) poor road safety records. 
 
The main constraints on capacity include lengthy compulsory land acquisition procedures and staff constraints 
within GDDKiA to plan, prepare and manage the road contracts.  This lack of institutional capacity is already 
affecting usage of ISPA (EU’s Instrument for Structural Policies for Pre-Accession) funds and, once Poland joins 
the EU, it will also affect use of Structural and Cohesion Funds.  To address these weaknesses, the government 
submitted two transport Bills to Parliament.  One focused on simplifying the procedures for land acquisition and for 
obtaining location and construction permits, while still respecting the environment.  The other focused on 
introduction of an additional road charge (vignette), and on creating a new road agency able to operate along 
commercial lines.  The first Bill was passed by Parliament in March 2003 and is now effective.  The second Bill was 
rejected by Parliament. 
 
Following the rejection of the second Bill, the government decided to prepare a new legislation 
to introduce a new fuel charge and to enable the re-activation of a dormant road fund account 
held at the Bank of the National Economy (BGK).  This new arrangement was approved by 
Parliament in October 2003, and became effective on January 1
st
 2004.  It is expected to generate 
additional funds for about €250 million per year with no impact on the national budget, as the 
new fuel charge introduced by the law is an additional tax that does not abstract revenues away 
from other sectors.   
 
In order to address another important element underpinning the government’s road improvement 
program, i.e., the lack of a consistent system for setting spending priorities, a computerized 
Highway Development and Management system (HDM-4) has been developed within the 
GDDKiA with the assistance of the World Bank under the on going Roads II project.  Based on 
rigorous technical and economic criteria, that would ensure that road spending produce value for 
money, the system has produced a first draft 6-year rolling roads expenditure program, which is 
being reviewed by the Ministry of Infrastructure (MoI).  All the preparatory works and reports 
related to the design of the system have been shared with the other donors and the EU in view to 
build a consensus on the final version of the 6-year roads expenditure program. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the effectiveness of Poland's national road 
rehabilitation and maintenance systems by:  (i) significantly increasing the percentage of national 
roads in good and fair conditions; (ii) establishing reliable and stable funding for the national 
road maintenance and rehabilitation network and for road safety; and (iii) improving the capacity 
within GDDKiA to operate efficiently and effectively and to reflect the views of road users in 
developing its programs.  Achievement of the Project Development Objective will be confirmed 
using the following key indicators:  (i) adoption and continued use of improved road 
maintenance and rehabilitation practices within GDDKiA; (ii) evidence of use of a coherent 6-
year rolling roads expenditure program together with an adequately balanced 
maintenance/investment program; (iii) significant increase in the percentage of the road network 
in good condition when compared with pre-project conditions; and (iv) evidence of high road 
user satisfaction following rehabilitation or maintenance operations when users are polled, both 
about the quality of the completed sections and the inconveniences associated with the 
rehabilitation or maintenance processes. 
 
Page  3
 
3
The CAS for Poland was prepared in the year 2002 (approved in November 2002) for the period 
of FY03 – FY05. The CAS identified a number of structural problems in the Polish economy, 
including a sub-optimal policy mix (loose fiscal and tight monetary policy), inefficient allocation 
of public resources (high level of recurrent social and low level of investment expenditures), and 
high deficit with unfavorable debt dynamics. Economic growth, which had slowed down 
significantly over the period of 2001 and 2002 during CAS preparation, was expected to increase 
in 2003 to 3.5% of GDP (up from 1.4% of GDP in 2002) with further recovery expected in 2004. 
It was the Bank’s view at the time that there was a need to decrease the fiscal deficit and stop the 
unfavorable debt dynamic with a re-composition of public finances. The economic program of 
the new Government addressed most of these challenges. With the agreement of the Government 
the macro-economic trigger for Bank lending was therefore defined as follows: On track for and 
increase in central government savings of 1 percent of GDP over the period of the CAS, 
compared with the estimated level of the deficit for 2002 (-4.1% of GDP), including -increases in 
central government savings each year of at least 0.25 percent of GDP, and without evidence of 
deterioration in recurrent balances of the rest of general government. 
 
The CAS also identified a number of priority areas for Bank support, including the Hard Coal and the Roads sectors.  
These priority areas were to be supported primarily through adjustment operations, which appeared as the most 
suitable instruments to support Government efforts under discussion at the time of the CAS preparation. The 
rationale for providing financial support in general and more specifically for the road sector operation are given in 
the CAS (paragraph 74 and Box 3) as follows: 
…Third Roads Project
 – Development and initiation of a coherent 
roads expenditure and investment program to meet Poland’s needs as it joins the EU, including consolidating 
responsibility for management of road construction and maintenance into one organization and ensuring sufficient 
financing.  This project would only proceed if agreement is reached on measures aimed at improving institutional 
capacity regarding road management and planning and financial constraints related to Poland’s absorption of 
funds from other, longer-term partners, particularly the EU and its current ISPA and soon Cohesion Funds. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
As Poland will join the European Union on May 1
st
 2004, it is clear that the World Bank’s role, both in terms of 
lending and advisory services, will have to evolve to adapt to a new situation.  It is also clear that other institutions, 
notably the EU, EIB and EBRD – are likely to be longer-term partners for financing Poland’s road network.  
However, their ability to help will be constrained by Poland’s still weak institutional capacity to develop and 
implement a large program of high priority road investments.  Therefore, World Bank support is sought for its 
knowledge, expertise and experience in the sector, in addition to its financing support.  More specifically, the Bank 
is expected to play a key role in providing support in the following: (i) implementation of the Modernization Action 
Plan for the road administration GDDKiA under a fast track approach, i.e., less than one year of implementation 
period; (ii) securing stable funding for national roads through reactivated national roads fund; and (iii) consolidation 
of the HDM-4 for setting future roads spending priorities on the basis of rigorous economic criteria. 
 
Request for World Bank Assistance
.
  In July 2003, the Government formally requested the 
World Bank to provide a multi-year -- US$400 million worth -- phased financial support for a 
medium-term program of policy reforms and capacity/institutional building, aimed at increasing 
the pace of road network modernization, strengthening road public expenditure management and 
improving governance.  The Bank plans to respond through two to three specific loans, in the 
respective amounts of €$100 or US$126.0 equivalent for the first one and US$275 million 
equivalent for the follow-up loans, to be implemented over the next four years. 
 
Borrower Ownership and Commitments
.
   The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussions completed in 
November 2002 concluded that the improvement of the national roads network is one of the highest priorities for the 
Government.  The Government is addressing these issues and has created the GDDKiA, the General Directorate of 
Page  4
 
4
National Roads and Motorways, in 2002 by merging the previously separate roads and motorway directorates into a 
single entity.  As already mentioned, the Parliament has approved legislation to simplify land expropriation and to 
obtain locations and construction permits more rapidly and introduced a new fuel tax to secure road financing in the 
future.  MoI is strongly committed to monitor closely the implementation of GDDKiA’s drastic Modernization 
Action Plan (MAP) with the joint support of the World Bank and the EIB. 
The proposal is, therefore, that World Bank support be through a series of innovative operations 
to support a Sector Wide Approach (SWAp), whose primary goals would be to: (a) support the 
development of institutional capacity in relevant sectors; (b) help Poland address key sector 
policy issues aimed at strengthening public expenditure management and improving governance; 
(c) provide funding for road maintenance and rehabilitation in a way that would allow for an 
adequate balance between maintenance of existing assets and new investment supported by the 
EU and other longer-term financiers; and (iv) to improve road safety.   
 
4. Description 
 
The project loan amounts to €100 million, equivalent to US$126.0 million and includes four components: (a) 
GDDKiA modernization action plan [US$2.5 million]; (b) national roads maintenance and rehabilitation program 
[US$115.9 million]; (c) road safety improvement program [US$5.7 million]; (d) promotion of public-private 
partnerships in the road sector [US$ 0.6 million].  The complement to the total US$126.0 consists in Front-end Fee 
[US$1.3 million].  
 
A - The GDDKiA Modernization Action Plan (MAP)
.  The plan is articulated around four major topics to be 
implemented within one year: (i) to carry out detailed diagnosis of current situation of GDDKiA, implement 
modernization measures at GDDKiA headquarters and launch works for development of procedures for preparation 
and implementation of roads projects [Stage 1]; (ii) to complete the process of GDDKiA reorganization at central 
level, undertake reorganization at regional level and finish works on procedures for preparation and implementation 
of roads projects [Stage 2]; (iii) to establish a proper system of strategic planning at GDDKiA that reflects better 
roads’ users needs [Stage 3]; and (iv) to evaluate efficiency of implemented measures, pursue modernization of the 
gaps that will continue after stages 1 to 3 and review potential for further improvements in order to further increase 
efficiency of GDDKiA. 
 
B - The road maintenance and rehabilitation program
 has been prepared by GDDKiA within the framework of the 
budget 2004.  Annex 4 provides details on the content of the road expenditure program that amounts to PLN5.4 
billion (equivalent to US$1.4 billion) for the year 2004.  The National budget funds allocated to road maintenance 
and rehabilitation, pooled with the resource provided by the projects amounts to PLN0.634 billion equivalent to 
US$158.6 million.  The proceeds of the loan will provide additional resource to essentially tackle the current road 
maintenance backlog.  The purpose of this financial support is to maintain a right balance between 
maintenance/rehabilitation, strengthening and reconstruction of existing roads together with new construction of 
motorways and expressways. 
 
C - The objective of the Road safety improvement program
 
is to significantly reduce current road accidents cost to 
society estimated at 2% of GDP. Actions will be focusing on further contributing to the reduction of road traffic 
fatalities as part of the National Road Safety Program. This will be realized by enhancing the capacities of 
prevention and mitigation of crash consequences through the provision of financing to partially support local 
initiatives in the area of black spot mitigation and traffic calming, additional equipment to the road traffic police, the 
fire brigade, possibly also the ambulance service and the Road Transport Inspectorate. The program will be 
coordinated by the Secretariat of National Road Safety Council in the Ministry of Infrastructure. 
 
D - In order to increase private sector involvement
 in the financing and operating of road 
infrastructure, technical assistance will be provided to GDDKiA and MoI to define an adequate 
policy framework providing incentive for the development of Public-Private Partnership (PPP) 
schemes in Poland.  It is expected that at the end of the project, at least one combined 
Page  5
 
5
routine/periodic maintenance concession would have been awarded through international 
competitive bidding process. 
 
5. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 49.0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
126.0 
 Total 
175.0 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The technical assistance provided by Bank staff and consultants, under the ongoing project in 
helping to shape the Government program and institutional reforms has been fully supported by 
the EBRD, EIB and the EU.  The Polish government and the World Bank have maintained 
regular contact with representatives of these agencies, to keep them informed and to consult 
them on program preparation.  They all have expressed interest in extending further loans and 
grants to the sector.  As already mentioned, the project will facilitate their interventions by 
increasing Poland’s capacity to develop and implement a large program of high priority road 
investments and Poland’s ability to contribute substantial counterpart funding.  The Bank’s role 
therefore will be to coordinate and consolidate assistance of other partners by supporting 
appropriate policies and institutions. 
 
Overall Project Management.
  The Ministry of Infrastructure will act with responsibility for overall project 
management and coordination in close cooperation with the Project Monitoring Teams established within the 
GDDKiA and the MoI. Both implementing agencies have developed significant capacity in preparation and 
management of bidding documents, in cash flow calculations and payments, and with the advice of their respective 
experts (engineer and financial analyst) they are found capable of successfully implementing the proposed project. 
MoI would be directly responsible for all procurement required by the different agencies. 
 
The project will utilize existing procedures for transferring of budgetary funds and implementation of contracts. 
However, in order to modernize and strengthen the overall management capacity of the GDDKiA it was agreed that 
the project would also include – as part of the MAP -- the design of a new Management Information System (MIS) 
spinning financial-accounting information with the contract data including planning and physical measures. 
  
Flow of funds
.
 
There will be one Special Account for all project components. The Special 
Account will be opened by MoF in National Bank of Poland or other commercial bank as agreed 
with the World Bank. The loan funds will flow to Special Account and then they will be 
converted into PLN and transferred to budget account  and  pooled with other government funds 
in the central budget account. Then the funds will be made available to MoI and  GDDKIA  as 
budget transfers.  GDDKiA will report to MoI on the use of the budgetary funds on a monthly 
basis (according to existing internal requirements).  On a quarterly basis, MoI -- with acceptance 
of MoF -- will send the application for withdrawal to the World Bank together with 
reconciliation of funds received and used for project expenditures. The application should be 
supported with Financial Management Reports (FMRs) prepared in aggregate form showing 
types of expenditures with applied disbursement percentages. The FMRs will include the request 
for funds based on 6 months forecast of expenditures. The full documentation will be kept by 
GDDKiA, NRSC and verified by auditors on an annual basis.
 
 
Page  6
 
6
For all the components -- as deemed necessary -- the loan funds may also be disbursed using traditional 
disbursement procedures including Statement of Expenditures. Supporting documentation will be retained by the 
GDDKIA and the MoI.  
 
The World Bank will devote about 30 staff weeks per year and a total of about 50 staff weeks 
through FY04 and FY05 to help the Government in implementing the project and supervise 
progress.  Implementation support and supervision – with a minimum of two missions per 
annum, -- as well as direct involvement by the Warsaw Country Office specialized staff, will in 
particular focus on performance of the executing entities in managing contracts, procurement and 
financial matters, as well as in completing the agreed implementation plans, especially the 
GDDKiA Modernization Action Plan. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The project will seek sustainability through: 
\01\02
Carrying out of the road maintenance and rehabilitation program as developed by GDDKiA with the 
assistance of the HDM-4 System, both at GDDKiA headquarters and regional offices; 
\01\02
Increased capacity within GDDKiA for planning and managing national roads expenditure programs; 
\01\02
Improved efficiency in implementing the overall national roads expenditure program; and 
\01\02
Secured funding mechanisms for road maintenance and safety. 
 
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
Since the beginning of 90’s, the European Union has been very active in providing grant assistance, mainly in the 
form of program PHARE and pre-accession instrument ISPA (€ 510 million).  During this period, the Polish road 
sector has been supported by three main international financial institutions: European Investment Bank (EIB) – in 
the total amount of € 1,7 billion, the European Bank of Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) – € 45 million, 
and the World Bank which made a transport loan with a road component and two road loans for a total of US$ 455 
million
1
.  
 
Past projects financed by the World Bank, in addition to their focus on road rehabilitation-modernization and 
maintenance, also included construction of bypasses, road safety improvement, and black spots elimination. All 
physical investments were successfully completed with works widely distributed throughout the country, in 
compliance with World Bank fiduciary and safeguards requirements.  The civil works contracts enabled a recently 
commercialized domestic construction industry to modernize its technology and to strengthen its managerial, 
administrative and commercial practices.  Domestic construction companies, partly through joint ventures, were able 
to participate in most of the contracts.  Through technical assistance, the modernization of the national roads 
administration was initiated, and most of the new private consulting firms as well as local construction sector 
professionals benefited from training courses on preparation of bids and on the management and administration of 
enterprises.  A Road Data Bank was created to support management of the national roads and facilitate training 
activities. 
 
The experience from the past operations may be characterized as globally positive.  While the objectives of the 
projects were achieved in full, despite the slow-down of the Polish economy and the integration process with the 
EU, there is still ample scope for further improvement to address some GDDKiA’s internal specific issues recently 
reported in the Polish Supreme Chamber of Auditors (NIK) audit report of 2003, especially with regard to the poor 
quality of bidding document, over estimation of costs, and insufficient attention in the supervision of works.  All 
these issues are being addressed in the MAP. 
 
                                                          
 
1
 The first road project was completed in 2000 and the ICR rated its outcome as highly satisfactory; the second 
project of 1998 is proceeding satisfactorily, and its completion is scheduled for end-2004.   
Page  7
 
7
Achievements in improvement of road safety have been also very positive.  The National Road Safety Council 
(chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister), with its executive secretariat at the MoI has been established and national 
targets in fatalities reduction as been fulfilled.  The secretariat is responsible for formulation and initiation of  
comprehensive, multi-sectoral national and regional road safety programs, and is supporting the enforcement of laws 
by the police (e.g. by providing regional statistics of seat belt use, automatic equipment for over-speed infractions 
and founding for breath analyzer (“alcotest”) equipment, together with new enforcement methodologies to increase 
his efficiency).  However, insufficient local funding and severe understaffing have hampered further achievements. 
Compared to other countries in Western Europe, Poland is still a place where the risk of a traffic accident is high and 
where the total annual socio-economic losses due to traffic accidents are very high (about 2% of GDP). 
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Given the nature of the interventions supported by the project, the project does not trigger any 
social safeguards.  However, it is quite likely that the implementation of the proposed sector 
reform agenda will generate a number of social issues that will require the Borrower’s careful 
attention throughout the project implementation period.  In this context, it is essential that the 
Government builds the necessary capacity to monitor the impact of fuel price increases on the 
most vulnerable social groups and poor working population groups who rely on road transport, 
access and mobility of the poor.  In addition, the Government will need to develop the capacity 
to monitor the social impact of the reform and deal with possible redundancies among transport 
sector employees as well as in carrying out public consultations and briefings among the 
concerned stakeholders. 
 
Furthermore, while the project does not finance land acquisition, given the Government’s resolve to undertake 
significant sector investments funded in road sector in the future, the preparations of the project included an 
evaluation of the legal framework and its enforcement in regard to involuntary resettlement and land acquisition.  
The evaluation was conducted on the request of the GoP in order to determine the degree of compliance of the 
Polish law as compared to the relevant standards pursued by the Commission of the European Union and the World 
Bank.   
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 4.01) 
[
x
] [ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04) 
[ ] 
[
x
] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
) [ 
] 
[
x
] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
, being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[
x
] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12) 
[ ] 
[
x
] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
, being revised as OP 4.10) 
[ ] 
[
x
] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36) 
[ ] 
[
x
] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37) 
[ ] 
[
x
] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
 [ 
] 
[
x
] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.50) 
[ ] 
[
x
] 
 
Involuntary resettlement
:  The Safeguards consultation meeting for the project dealt in considerable detail on issues 
related to involuntary resettlement.  Since no new road segments or expanded roads will be financed, triggering of 
the involuntary resettlement safeguards is not anticipated.
  
Furthermore, it is confirmed that road maintenance and 
rehabilitation works supported by the project will not involve acquisition of land. 
 
Cultural property and chance find
:  Protection of cultural heritage is currently regulated by the 
Act of 23 July 2003 on Protection of Monuments (Dz.U. of 2003 No 162 item 1568). This new 
law, which replaced the old Law of 1962 on Cultural Heritage Protection has reinforced the 
                                                          
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
 
disputed areas
 
Page  8
 
8
already quite strict rules
 
concerning protection of cultural heritage. In fact its requirements in this 
context, including   far reaching powers of cultural heritage authorities  (so called ‘Conservators 
of Monuments”) in relation to planning and development control are often considered to be too 
rigid.  Chance findings during works is regulated by the Ministry of Culture and National 
Heritage which is empowered of giving and recalling permits for carrying out conservational, 
archeological and excavatory works and on terms of carrying out of these works and on 
qualifications of persons carrying out these works (Dz.U.00.93.1033). 
 
10.  List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
 
1. 
Infrastructure – A Key to Development
 (Warsaw, January 2002); Council of Ministers 
2. 
Poland Road Financing Study
 (Warsaw, June 2002; Prof. Suchorzewski and his team) 
3. 
Technical assistance to GDDKiA
 
(Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick, November 2003): 
4. 
Assessment of the public procurement law and regulations
 
(Peter Trepte October 2003) 
5. 
Comparative study between Polish and WB environmental assessment
 (REC - December 2003) 
6. 
Minutes of the Safeguard consultation meeting 
(January 2004)
 
7. 
Minutes of the Quality at Entry Review Meeting 
(January 2004)
 
8. 
Thematic Seminar on environmental assessment
 (Josefow - January 2004) 
9. 
Minutes of Decision meeting 
(January 2004)
 
10. 
Operational manual 
(Chapter on environment – February 2004)
 
11. 
Technical assistance to GDDKiA
 
(Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick, February 2004) 
12. 
National Roads draft Investment Program 2015 
(Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick, February 2004) 
 
11. Contact point 
 
Contact: Michel Audige 
Title: Lead Transport Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-4806 
Fax: (202) 614-0900 
Email: Maudige@worldbank.org 
 
12.  For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
