Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7223 POL 
 
Loan Agreement
 
(Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF POLAND 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated April 7, 2004 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7223 POL 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 7,  2004, between REPUBLIC OF POLAND (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS  (A)  the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter dated February 24, 
2004, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to restructure the road 
sector and to improve performance of the sector (hereinafter called the Program), and declaring 
the Borrower’s commitment to the implementation of the Program;  
 
(B) 
the Borrower having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project; and  
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions, and the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set 
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table 
in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works, services and 
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Transfers (hereinafter defined) referred to in Section 2.02 
of this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
 
(d) 
“GDDKiA” means the General Directorate for Roads and Motorways of the 
Borrower, consisting of headquarters and 16 branches; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(e) 
“GDDKiA Modernization Action Plan” means the action plan, prepared by 
GDDKiA and approved by the MOI (hereinafter defined) to reform GDDKiA, as it may be 
amended from time to time; 
 
(f) 
“HDM-4 System” means the Highway Development and Management 
Computerized System; 
 
(g) 
“MOI” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Infrastructure; 
 
(h) 
“NRSC” means the National Road Safety Council Secretariat of the Borrower 
within the MOI and for purposes of Part C of the Project it shall include the Fire Brigade and the 
Traffic Police of the Borrower, and selected local authorities; 
 
(i) 
“Operational Manual” means the Operational Manual for the carrying out of the 
Project, prepared and adopted by the Borrower, as the same may be amended from time to time 
with the agreement of the Bank; 
 
(j) 
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit established under the MOI; 
 
(k) 
“PPP” means Private-Public Partnership schemes to increase the role of the 
private sector in road maintenance, rehabilitation and improvement works; 
 
(l) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for withdrawal of 
funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
 
(m) 
“Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program” means the sub-program for 
road maintenance and rehabilitation co-financed by the Bank, prepared by GDDKiA with the 
assistance of the HDM-4 System, and which constitutes part of the GDDKiA budget allocated for 
the management of the national road network; 
 
 
(n) 
“Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Transfers” means the amount, consisting 
of 67% out of the proceeds of the Loan and 33% from the Borrower’s own resources, transferred 
by the Borrower through its Ministry of Finance to the MOI and through the MOI to GDDKiA to 
cover the costs of goods, works and services required for the implementation of the Road 
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program; 
 
(o) 
“Road Safety Improvement Program” means the program of actions under 
GAMBIT 2000, which is a comprehensive road safety program to improve road safety in Poland; 
and  
 
(p) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
Page  4
-
3
-
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth  or  referred  to  in  this  Agreement,  an  amount  equal  to  one  hundred  million  Euro               
(EUR 100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of: (a) the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services under Parts A, C and D of the Project and Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation 
Transfers under Part B of the Project, required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; and (b) the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date as the Bank shall 
establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount equal to  
one million Euro
 
(EUR 1,000,000). On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such 
fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty-five one-
hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge commences to 
accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General Conditions to but not 
including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy-five one-hundredths of one percent 
(0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at the Variable 
Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such amount in accordance with 
the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest, commitment and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on   
March 15, 2014. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or 
vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 (7) of the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower through the MOI declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end shall carry 
out the Project through GDDKiA in respect of Parts A, B and D of the Project and through NRSC 
in respect of Part C of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate financial, administrative, technical, engineering, and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods, works 
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as well as 
of those to be financed through the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Transfers shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 6.03 (d) of the General Conditions 
(and the terms of paragraph 1.13 of the Guidelines referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement and 
paragraph 1.18 of the Consultant Guidelines also referred to in said Schedule), if, at any time, the 
Bank determines that the procurement of any contract financed through disbursements from Road 
Page  6
-
5
-
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Transfers is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to 
in this Agreement, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower cancel an amount of the Loan 
equivalent to sixty seven percent (67%) of the amount of such contract.   
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower through the MOI shall cause GDDKiA and NRSC to 
maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements, in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower through the MOI shall cause GDDKiA and NRSC to: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), audited, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year (or such other period agreed to 
by the Bank):  (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year (or other period agreed to 
by the Bank), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by 
said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records, 
accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement  
Page  7
-
6
-
(Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower through 
the MOI shall cause GDDKiA and NRSC to: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the audit 
report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), referred 
to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting obligations 
set out in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower through the MOI shall prepare and furnish 
to the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
which: (i) sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, showing separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; (ii) describes physical progress in 
Project implementation, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual
 
and planned Project implementation; and (iii) sets forth the status of 
procurement under the Project, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days 
after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from 
the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar 
quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days 
after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
Section 4.03.   Without prejudice to the requirements of Section 4.02 above, with respect 
to Part B of the Project the Borrower through the MOI shall cause GDDKiA to prepare and 
submit to the Bank monthly financial reports in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
within thirty days after each month
.
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
  
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:  
 
(a) 
the Borrower has appointed a senior manager as Road Safety Officer at GDDKiA 
to liaise and work with NRSC and has introduced procedures to undertake road safety audits on 
all works related to the Polish national road network; and 
 
(b)  
the Borrower has adopted the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions: 
Page  9
-
8
-
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
u1.
Swietokrzyska 12 
 
00-916 Warszawa  
 
Republic of Poland 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
  Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
 
MINF 
  
825592 minf pl or 
 
48 22 826 6670 
 
Poland 
  
814386 minf pl 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or           
1 (202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Warsaw, 
Republic of Poland, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF POLAND 
 
By /s/ Andrzej Raczko   
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Roger Grawe 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 Category
(Expressed in EUR)
to be financed
(1) 
Works under Part C 
1,000,000 
80% 
 
of the Project 
 
(2) 
Goods under Part C 
2,000,000 
100% of foreign 
 
of the Project 
 
expenditures, 100% 
 
of
local expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 85% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items procured 
 
locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants' services, 
 
100% for foreign 
 
including auditing  
 
consulting firms and   
 
services, and training 
 
foreign individual  
 
and study tours 
 
consultants and 83.5% 
 
for local consulting 
 
(a) under Parts A and 
2,500,000 
firms and local individual 
 
D
of
the Project 
 
consultants including 
 
100%
of eligible social 
 
(b) under Part C of 
1,500,000 
charges 
 
the Project 
 
 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
Amount of the  
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 Category
Expressed in EUR
)
to be financed
(4) Road 
Maintenance 
92,000,000 
67% 
 
and Rehabilitation  
 
Transfers for Part B 
 
of the Project 
 
 
 
(5) Front-end 
fee 
1,000,000
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
TOTAL 100,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
 
(c)  
the term “foreign consulting firm” means a consulting firm which is registered or 
incorporated in the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(d) 
the term “foreign individual consultant” means an individual consultant who is not a 
citizen of the territory of the Borrower; 
 
(e) 
the term “local consulting firm” means a consulting firm which is registered or 
incorporated in the territory of the Borrower; 
 
(f) 
the term “local individual consultant” means an individual consultant who is a 
citizen of the territory of the Borrower;  
 
(g) 
the term “eligible social charges” means the employer’s contribution to social and 
medical charges assessed by the Borrower on employment contracts with citizens of the Borrower; 
 
(h) 
the term “training” means expenditures incurred to finance the reasonable cost of 
transportation, accommodation, per diem, interpretation services and cost of training courses 
under the Project; and 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
(i) 
the term “study tours” means expenditures incurred to finance the reasonable cost 
of transportation, accommodation, per diem and interpretation services for study tours abroad and 
such costs for visiting teaching staff providing training under the Project.  
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding ten million Euro (EUR 10,000,000), may be 
made in respect of Category (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account 
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after January 1, 2004; and (b) payments 
under Category 4 of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Part A, in the event the Borrower 
shall have failed to furnish to the Bank by a date six months after the end of each fiscal year (or 
such other period agreed to by the Bank), together with the audits referred to in Section 4.01 (b) 
of this Agreement, such documents and other evidence showing, to the satisfaction of the Bank, 
that the amounts of the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Transfers were used for goods, 
works and services eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan as confirmed by such 
audit report.   
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods and works, with the 
exception of goods and works under contracts procured in accordance with international 
competitive bidding procedures set forth in Part B of Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(b) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than EUR 200,000 equivalent per 
contract; and (c) services of individual consultants under contracts costing less than EUR 100,000 
equivalent per contract; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower. 
 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, such reports 
to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first such request submitted to the Bank before 
any withdrawal has been made from the Loan Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank 
only a cash forecast report for the Project for the six-month period following the date of such 
request.  
 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Euro a special deposit account in the National 
Bank of Poland or in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment in 
the case of a commercial bank. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account 
shall be made as follows: 
 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.  
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such 
time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part A.4 of 
this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based Disbursements; or 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure, as the case may be.  
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have 
notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  
Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits 
into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special Account 
was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide 
such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
 
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraphs (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of 
EUR 10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which in 
the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.  Prior to 
or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from 
the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, once the 
total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from 
the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  17
-
16 - 
 
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit 
into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or 
more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.4 of this Schedule 1 
applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such reports.
 
Page  18
-
17 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to 
improve the effectiveness of Poland’s national road 
rehabilitation and maintenance systems by:  (i) significantly increasing the percentage of national 
roads in good and fair conditions; (ii) establishing reliable and stable funding for the national road 
maintenance and rehabilitation network and for road safety; and (iii) improving the capacity 
within GDDKiA to operate efficiently and effectively and to reflect the views of road users in 
developing its programs. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
 
Part A:
GDDKiA Modernization Action Plan
Carrying  out  of  the  GDDKiA  Modernization  Action  Plan  including,  inter  alia:                
(a)  carrying out of a detailed diagnosis of the current situation of GDDKiA and implementation 
of modernization measures at GDDKiA headquarters, including initiation of development of 
procedures for preparation and implementation of roads projects; (b) completion of GDDKiA 
reorganization at central level, carrying out of reorganization at regional level and completion of 
procedures for preparation and implementation of road projects; (c) establishment of a proper 
system of strategic planning at GDDKiA better reflecting road users’ needs; and (d) evaluation of 
efficiency of implemented measures, addressing the gaps that remain after (a), (b) and (c) above 
have been completed and review of potential for further improvements in order to further increase 
efficiency of GDDKiA. 
 
Part B:
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program
Carrying out of the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program for maintenance and   
rehabilitation and strengthening and reconstruction of existing roads as developed by GDDKiA 
with the assistance of the HDM-4 System and in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in the Operational Manual. 
 
Part C:
Road Safety Improvement Program
Carrying out by NRSC of the Road Safety Improvement Program by enhancing the 
capacities of prevention and mitigation of crash consequences through the provision of financing 
to partially support initiatives in the area of accident prevention and mitigation and traffic 
calming measures. 
 
Page  19
-
18 - 
 
Part D:
Private Sector Involvement
Provision of
 technical assistance to GDDKiA and the MOI to design and implement 
PPP schemes in Poland.   
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005. 
 
Page  20
-
19 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.  
 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than EUR 500,000 equivalent per contract, and works 
estimated to cost less than EUR 6,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines 
and the following provisions:  
 
(a) 
with respect to eligible contracts procured under the Act on Public Procurement, 
dated June 10, 1994, that became effective on January 1, 1995, as amended,  the procedures to be 
followed for national competitive bidding shall be those allowing open tendering set forth in said 
Act with the clarifications set forth below required for compliance with the Guidelines:  (i) no 
domestic preference shall be used; and (ii) the term “Best Offer” shall be understood as the lowest 
evaluated bid selected following evaluation with use of quantifiable factors expressed in 
monetary terms.  In addition, no merit points system shall be used to evaluate bids; and 
 
Page  21
-
20 - 
 
(b) 
with respect to eligible contracts procured under the Act on Public Procurement, 
dated January 29, 2004, that became effective on March 2, 2004, the procedures to be followed 
for national competitive bidding shall be those allowing open tendering set forth in said Act with 
the clarifications set forth below required for compliance with the Guidelines:  
the term “Best 
Offer” shall be understood as the lowest evaluated bid selected following evaluation with use of 
quantifiable factors expressed in monetary terms.  In addition, no merit points system shall be 
used to evaluate bids. 
 
2. National 
Shopping
Goods under Parts B and C of the Project estimated to cost less than EUR 60,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works under Parts B and C of the Project estimated to cost less than EUR 60,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, 
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers 
the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project (except for the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program under Part B of 
the Project), shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works procured in accordance with 
international competitive bidding procedures, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  22
-
21 - 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Sections I 
and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 
and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short list of 
consultants for services under the Project, estimated to cost less than EUR 200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for audits for the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services  for  technical  assistance  under  the  Project  estimated  to  cost  less  than              
EUR 100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  23
-
22 - 
 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Advisory services under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than EUR 530,000 in 
the aggregate, may, wit
h
the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants (except for the Road Maintenance and 
Rehabilitation Program under Part B of the Project), which shall include contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of EUR 200,000 or more; (ii) all contracts procured under least-
cost selection method; and (iii) all contracts procured under single-source selection method, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of EUR 100,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the 
qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost more than EUR 50,000 equivalent per contract, the terms of reference of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
Page  24
-
23 - 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
 
Page  25
-
24 - 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in the Operational Manual. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain the PCU within the MOI, headed by a Project Coordinator, 
until completion of the Project, with staff, resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank and shall assign to it responsibility for overall Project coordination, including, inter alia:    
(a) consolidation of all reporting requirements under the Project, including an annual work 
program for the Project and an annual progress report; (b) management of the Special Account 
referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (c) carrying out of monitoring and 
evaluation activities under the Project. 
  
 
3. 
The Borrower through the MOI shall assign responsibility for management and 
coordination of the Project to: (a) GDDKiA in respect of Parts A, B and D of the Project; and (b) 
NRSC in respect of Part C of the Project, including, inter alia: 
 
(i) 
preparation of disbursement applications under the Loan; 
 
(ii) 
maintenance of records and accounts related to the Project and arranging 
for the audit thereof; and  
 
(iii) 
participation in administration of bidding procedures and of contracts 
under the Project. 
 
4. 
The Borrower through the MOI shall determine on the basis of proposals by GDDKiA 
the overall program of expenditures for national roads with the assistance of the HDM-4 System. 
 
5. 
The Borrower through the MOI shall cause GDDKiA to: (a) carry out Part B of the 
Project in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in the Operational Manual, 
including, inter alia, the procedures for the selection, carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of 
the maintenance and rehabilitation works under Part B of the Project and any requirements 
thereof relating to environmental and social standards satisfactory to the Bank and all applicable 
laws and regulations of the Borrower relating to work and road safety and environmental 
protection and shall include adequate information regarding the above in the FMRs for the 
Project; and (b) maintain the Operational Manual in form and content at all times satisfactory to 
the Bank.   
 
Page  26
-
25 - 
 
6. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on 
an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the 
Project and the Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, on or about February 28 of each year until completion of the Project, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project and the Program during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the Program and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by April 30 of each year until completion of the Project, or 
such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
