                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No.: 83251-PL.




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                                   POLAND

         ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
                      (LOAN NO. 72230 POL)

    SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
                    (LOAN NO. 72820 POL )

       ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION III PROJECT
                    (LOAN NO. 73840 POL )




                               December 18, 2013




IEG Public Sector Evaluation
Independent Evaluation Group
                                                ii


Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = Polish Zloty (PLN)
1995                 US$1.00                    PLN 2.5
1996                 US$1.00                    PLN 2.8
1997                 US$1.00                    PLN 3.5
1998                 US$1.00                    PLN 3.5
1999                 US$1.00                    PLN 4.2
2000                 US$1.00                    PLN 4.3
2001                 US$1.00                    PLN 4.0
2002                 US$1.00                    PLN 3.9
2003                 US$1.00                    PLN 3.8
2004                 US$1.00                    PLN 3.1
2005                 US$1.00                    PLN 3.3
2006                 US$1.00                    PLN 2.9
2007                 US$1.00                    PLN 2.5
2008                 US$1.00                    PLN 3.0
2009                 US$1.00                    PLN 2.8
2010                 US$1.00                    PLN 3.0
2011                 US$1.00                    PLN 3.4

Abbreviations and Acronyms
EBRD         European Bank for Reconstruction        IEG         Independent Evaluation Group
             and Development                         IBRD        International Bank for
EIB          European Investment Bank                            Reconstruction and Development
ERR          Economic Rate of Return                 PAD         Project Appraisal Document
EU           European Union                          PPAR        Project Performance Assessment
GDDKiA       General Directorate for National                    Report
              Roads and Motorways                    PLN         Polish Zloty
HDM-4        Highway Development and                 SIL         Sector Investment Loan
              Maintenance                            SWAp        Sector-Wide Approach
ICR          Implementation Completion and
              Results Report



Fiscal Year

Government:              January 1 to December 31




Director-General, Independent Evaluation                    :   Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                      :   Mr. Emmanuel Jimenez
Manager, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                       :   Ms. Marie Gaarder
Task Manager                                                :   Ms. Midori Makino
                                                                   iii



Contents
Principal Ratings ................................................................................................................. v
Key Staff Responsible........................................................................................................ vi
Preface................................................................................................................................ ix
Summary ............................................................................................................................ xi
1. Background and Context................................................................................................. 1
2. Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (2004-2009) ........................................... 6
Objectives, Design, and Relevance ..................................................................................... 6
Implementation ................................................................................................................... 9
Achievement of the Objectives ......................................................................................... 11
Efficiency .......................................................................................................................... 14
Ratings .............................................................................................................................. 14
3. Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (2005-2009) ............................ 16
Objectives, Design, and Relevance ................................................................................... 16
Implementation ................................................................................................................. 18
Achievement of the Objectives ......................................................................................... 19
Efficiency .......................................................................................................................... 20
Ratings .............................................................................................................................. 20
4. Third Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (2006-2011) ............................... 22
Objectives, Design, and Relevance ................................................................................... 22
Implementation ................................................................................................................. 25
Achievement of the Objectives ......................................................................................... 27
Efficiency .......................................................................................................................... 30
Ratings .............................................................................................................................. 30
5. Lessons .......................................................................................................................... 32
References ......................................................................................................................... 35
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ............................................................................................... 37
Annex B. National Roads Expenditures, Financing, Outputs and Condition 2003-2010. 46
Annex C. Trends in Road Traffic Fatalities in EU Countries 2001-2011 ........................ 47
Annex D. Use of HDM-4 under Budget Constraints ........................................................ 48
Annex E. List of Persons Met ........................................................................................... 50

This report was prepared by Midori Makino and George Tharakan (consultant), who assessed the project in
February 2012. The report was peer reviewed by Isabel Chatterton and panel reviewed by Peter Freeman.
Romayne Pereira provided administrative support.
                                                   iv



Boxes
Box 1: Poland – Integrated Road Safety Program GAMBIT 2005 .................................... 5


Tables
Table 1: Prior Projects in Poland Road Sector Since the 1990s ......................................... 2
Table 2: Project Components, Costs and Sub-components ................................................ 6
Table 3: Planned and Actual Project Costs by Component (US$ Millions) ..................... 11
Table 4: Project Components, Costs and Sub-components .............................................. 16
Table 5: Planned and Actual Project Costs by Component (US$ Millions) ..................... 19
Table 6: Project Components, Costs and Sub-components .............................................. 23
Table 7: Planned and Actual Project Costs by Component (US$ Millions) ..................... 27
                                                              v


Principal Ratings
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
                                       ICR*                         ICR Review*                            PPAR
Outcome                                                                                                     Moderately
                           Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
                                                                                                           Unsatisfactory
Risk to
Development                          Moderate                          Moderate                         Significant
Outcome
Bank Performance           Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower                                                             Moderately                        Moderately
                           Moderately Satisfactory
Performance                                                         Unsatisfactory                    Unsatisfactory



Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
                                       ICR*                         ICR Review*                            PPAR
Outcome                                                                                                     Moderately
                           Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
                                                                                                           Unsatisfactory
Risk to
Development                          Moderate                          Moderate                         Significant
Outcome
Bank Performance           Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower                                                             Moderately                        Moderately
                           Moderately Satisfactory
Performance                                                         Unsatisfactory                    Unsatisfactory



Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation III Project
                                       ICR*                         ICR Review*                            PPAR
Outcome                    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to
Development                         Significant                       Significant                       Significant
Outcome
Bank Performance           Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
Performance
* The Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR
Review is an intermediate IEG product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.
                                       vi


Key Staff Responsible
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
                                        Division Chief/
Project       Task Manager/Leader       Sector Director     Country Director
Appraisal         Michel Audige         Motoo Konishi        Roger Grawe
Completion      Radoslaw Czapski       Henry G.R. Kerali   Theodore O. Ahlers

Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
                                        Division Chief/
Project       Task Manager/Leader       Sector Director     Country Director
Appraisal      Anca C. Dumitrescu       Motoo Konishi        Roger Grawe
Completion      Radoslaw Czapski       Henry G.R. Kerali   Theodore O. Ahlers

Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation III Project
                                        Division Chief/
Project       Task Manager/Leader       Sector Director     Country Director
Appraisal      Anca C. Dumitrescu       Motoo Konishi       Daniela Gressani
Completion      Radoslaw Czapski       Henry G.R. Kerali    Peter C. Harrold
                                                          vii



      IEG Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through excellence in evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the
Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
       To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
     IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                             ix


Preface
This is the Project Performance Assessment Report prepared by the Independent
Evaluation Group (IEG) for a sequence of three road sector projects in Poland: the Road
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (Loan 72230), the Second Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Project (Loan 72820), and the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Project III (Loan 73840). The three loans supported rehabilitation of Poland’s national
road network and the strengthening of road sector institutions at the time of Poland’s
accession to the European Union. These three International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD) loans to the Government of Poland were approved by the Board of
Directors on March 30, 2004, March 29, 2005, and June 6, 2006, with loan amounts of
USD 126.0 million, USD 130.5 million, and USD 180.2 million, respectively, and
became effective within three months of approval.

The three loans were designed as hybrid operations; the physical road works were
financed using a Sector Wide Approach (SWAp) with Bank funds pooled with funds
from the national budget, and contracts were procured using the Government’s own
systems, while the institutional development components were financed as Specific
Investment Loans (SIL) using Bank standard procurement and financial management
arrangements. At appraisal, their total project costs were estimated to be USD 175
million, USD 210.5 million, and USD 376.2 million, respectively. The third loan was co-
financed by the European Investment Bank (EIB) with a loan of USD166.0 million. For
the first two Loans (72230 and 72820), the closing dates were extended by 18 months to
December 31, 2008 and June 30, 2009. The third loan closed as planned on September
15, 2011.

These three projects were selected by IEG for review as input into the IEG evaluation,
“Improving institutional capability and financial viability to sustain transport”. They also
represent a rather innovative approach, with fast disbursing physical works completed in
about a year from loan approval, and much slower institutional development components
which took longer and overlapped the other loans during implementation.

IEG prepared this report based on an examination of the Project Appraisal Documents,
the Implementation Completion and Results Reports, the Legal Agreements, project files
and archives, as well as other relevant reports, memoranda and working papers.
Discussions were also held with Bank staff in Washington, DC and in the resident
mission in Warsaw. An IEG field mission visited Poland in January/February, 2012 to
review the results on the ground and to hold discussions with relevant government
officials, and other sector stakeholders. The mission appreciates all support and attention
given by the borrowers and all concerned parties in Poland as well as in Washington, DC.

Following IEG practice, a copy of the draft Report was sent to government officials and
borrowing agencies for their review but no comments have been received.
                                            xi


Summary
This Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) assesses the development
effectiveness and sustainability of a sequence of three loans that supported maintenance
and rehabilitation of Poland’s national road network. The first loan was approved in
2004 and the last loan closed in 2011. Over this eight year period, these loans supported
Poland’s national roads agency, GDDKiA, which is responsible for the approximately
14,000 km national roads network. They also supported the National Road Safety
Council in a comprehensive program to improve road safety and reduce road accident
fatalities. Combined, these loans provided about USD 422 million in financing for a total
project cost of about USD 760 million. European Investment Bank co-financed the last
loan with another USD 166 million equivalent of funding for the rehabilitation program.

Preparation of the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation program started on the eve of
Poland’s accession to the European Union (EU) in 2004. The program anticipated the
large infusions of EU funding for road improvements and the consequent need to
strengthen GDDKiA implementation capacity. It also funded rehabilitation expenses that
would not be eligible for EU funding, in order to reduce the large back-log of roads in
poor condition. At the start of the program only 37 percent of the national road network
was in good condition and 30 percent was in poor condition; by the end of the program
the target of 60 percent in good condition had essentially been achieved, but about 18
percent of the network remained in poor condition.

The first loan, for the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (Loan 72230), was
approved in 2004, and financed the rehabilitation of 917 km of national roads,
development and implementation of a Modernization Action Plan for the national roads
agency GDDKiA, a Road Safety Improvement Program, and Technical Assistance to
Increase Public-Private Partnerships in the road sector. The Second Road Maintenance
and Rehabilitation Project (Loan 72820), approved in 2005, financed the rehabilitation of
749 km of national roads and the development of a Management Information System for
GDDKiA. The Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project III (Loan 73840), approved
in 2006, financed the rehabilitation of 1,103 km of national roads, implementation of the
Management Information System, Road Safety and technical assistance to Ministry of
Infrastructure (formerly Ministry of Transport and Construction). Together these three
loans rehabilitated about 2,700 km of national roads, or about 17 percent of the national
roads network, over an 8 year period.

The loans were designed as hybrid operations; the physical road works were financed
using a Sector Wide Approach (SWAp) with Bank funds pooled with funds from the
national budget and contracts procured using the Government’s own systems, while the
institutional development components were financed as a Specific Investment Loan (SIL)
using Bank standard procurement and financial management arrangements.

All three projects disbursed well on the civil works components, with the majority of the
disbursements completed within a year of loan effectiveness. These components were
implemented using Poland’s own systems for procurement and financial management,
with the only restriction being that individual contracts be valued under EUR 6 million.
This resulted in numerous small contracts with the average contract being for a road
                                            xii


section of about 5 km valued at EUR 2.4 million. While these contracts would be
considered small for international contractors they appear to have suited the capabilities
of the local construction industry. Technical audits done after contract completion found
the works to be of good quality. Restricting the value of individual contracts adopted for
the civil works may therefore be considered to have contributed to the quality of the
roads.

Road safety had been a long standing concern, and the Government had initiated a
comprehensive program, GAMBIT, to tackle the problem. In 2003, just before EU
accession, road safety in Poland was among the worst in the EU 25 countries. At the
time annual fatalities from road accidents exceeded 5,500 and rapid increases in the
vehicle fleet, following EU accession, threatened to push these numbers much higher. By
2010, though the vehicle fleet had grown by about 60 percent, the number of fatalities
had declined to about 3,900 and annual fatality rates per 10,000 vehicles had declined
from 3.20 to around 2.45. Despite this progress, Poland’s road traffic fatality rate still
remains one of the highest among the EU countries in 2011.

GDDKiA’s institutional development was also a key objective of the Road Rehabilitation
and Maintenance program. Essentially this aimed at improving institutional capacity to
plan and implement large volumes of road works efficiently with adequate internal
controls. To this end the program supported the introduction of a modern Management
Information System and the planning tools needed to plan and evaluate programs for the
rehabilitation of the network and for effective management of new construction works.
The program also developed plans to restructure organizational arrangements to achieve
higher efficiencies in working procedures. This involved decentralization of some
responsibilities to GDDKiA’s regional branches and equipping them with the necessary
systems to undertake these responsibilities. The Management Information System
development was delayed and it is only now being rolled out to the various branches of
GDDKiA. The entire system is to be connected over a wide area network. Likewise the
planning and evaluation capabilities at headquarters and at the branch level have been
enhanced by the introduction of tools such as the Highway Development and
Maintenance (HDM-4) model which allows the evaluation of road rehabilitation plans to
ensure their cost effectiveness. A review using HDM-4 found that median Economic
Rate of Return (ERR) for rehabilitation projects was 37 percent.

However, use of HDM-4 to ensure the efficiency of the rehabilitation program was only
partially effective. While it is important to ensure that individual rehabilitation projects
have an adequate ERR, it is also important to clear the maintenance backlog in a
reasonable period of time within available budgets. This requires that maintenance
budget constraints be factored into the choice of maintenance interventions. The roads in
poor condition at the start of the program in 2003 totaled about 30 percent of the national
roads network. In 2011, about 18 percent of the network was still in poor condition. This
means that over an 8 year period the program had not managed to eliminate the
maintenance backlog. This shortcoming relates principally to the shortfalls in
maintenance budgets, and could have been avoided if the HDM-4 analysis had
incorporated budget constraints and chosen rehabilitation alternatives that eliminated the
maintenance back-log within the available budget envelope, even if this meant sacrificing
some pavement life.
                                            xiii


Another important objective of the program was to establish a reliable and stable source
of funding for maintenance of the national road network. At the time of preparation of
the Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance program, public expenditure on the national
road network was expected to grow from US$2 billion in 2005 to US$6 billion a year by
2010, with the bulk of the funding coming from the EU. For the most part, however, the
EU funds were not available for rehabilitation of the existing network. What was also not
expected was that the counterpart funds needed to utilize the EU funds would strain the
Government’s financial resources for the road sector. The National Road Fund which
was to have provided a stable source of maintenance funding was restricted to funding
new construction only in order to support the EU funded program. Consequently the
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance program did not succeed in creating a reliable
mechanism for funding road maintenance from the Road Fund. The road networks were
expected to be maintained with financial allocation from the state budget which often fell
short of the required level. This remains a deficiency in the achievement of a sustainable
system for the maintenance of the national road network.

Ratings

Outcomes for both the first and second project were rated “Moderately Unsatisfactory”
due primarily to their deficiency in the achievement of objectives. Both projects had
stable and reliable funding of maintenance as an objective, and this was not achieved
when the National Road Fund was diverted to funding new construction only. The third
project had substantially achieved its objectives, and demonstrated economic efficiency.
Consequently the outcome rating is moderately satisfactory.

Risk to development outcome is rated significant for all three projects largely on account
of the uncertainty in ensuring a reliable and stable source of funding for maintenance of
the network. Reductions in maintenance funding for the years 2010 and 2011 have
already resulted in the proportion of the network in good condition dropping from 59.6
percent in 2009 to 58.7 percent in 2011 although it went back up in 2011 to 62.7 percent
after the government decided to fund the overdue periodic maintenance. Continuation of
such ad hoc implementation of periodic maintenance not only risks losing the gains in
network condition achieved so far, but also risks dissipating the institutional capacity for
maintenance developed under the Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance program.

Lessons

The key lessons derived, based on the findings of this PPAR, are the following:

   i. When planning sequential operations that involve sector reforms, it is
      important to ensure that sufficient disbursement leverage is retained to
      ensure the satisfactory implementation of the institutional development
      components, as well as a realistic time-frame for the operation. In this case,
      the implementation of three Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance projects were
      phased over three consecutive years. The disbursements were fast but the Bank
      experienced difficulty leveraging over the policy actions and institutional
      development programs which took longer to mature.
                                         xiv


ii. The use of country systems, combined with adequate ex-post audits can
    contribute to fast disbursement of quality works. The Sector Wide Approach
    adopted for the implementation of civil works using the borrower’s own systems
    worked well in a country where there is already a functioning system. Fiduciary
    and safeguards oversight based on ex-post audits of the efficacy of internal
    controls are particularly useful as they also help the government improve the
    internal controls of their own managed programs. Quality control based on third
    party technical audits also proved adequate and efficient.

iii. It is crucial to take into account the budget constraints when using HDM-4
     analysis. Using HDM-4 to analyze only the rates of return on rehabilitation
     projects ignores the financial viability aspect of the program and pays little
     attention to reducing the roads in poor condition. The rehabilitation program
     should be designed to deliver a maintainable network within a reasonable time
     frame, and this requires taking into consideration a realistic budget envelope over
     the program period.

iv. Objectives are more likely to be achieved when they have comprehensive
    monitoring indicators. While proper indicators were set for most objectives,
    there were no indicators linked to the objective of achieving reliable and stable
    funding of road maintenance or financial viability. This may have contributed to
    the program’s difficulty in achieving significant progress on this sub-objective.




                                                        Caroline Heider
                                                        Director-General
                                                           Evaluation
                                               1


1. Background and Context
1.1     Poland has experienced high economic growth in recent years, relative to other
European economies, and is expected to rapidly emerge as a leading member of the
European Union. With a population of just under 40 million, a Gross National Income per
capita of USD 6,800 which is well above the Upper Middle Income Country average, and
strategically located between the European Union (EU) and Russia, Poland is positioned to
become one of Europe’s major economies. Since the year 2000, Poland experienced 4
percent annual average gross domestic product growth, as compared with the EU-27 average
of negative 3.5 percent. Over the same period, cargo and passenger transport grew even
faster at around 6 percent and 4 percent per annum, respectively. This pace of growth placed
increasing demands on Poland’s already deficient transport systems. Added to this was the
“quality” demands placed on its transport infrastructure upon becoming a member of the EU.

1.2     Accession to the EU in May 2004, added some urgency for Poland’s road sector
to meet the higher standards of performance expected of EU member countries. These
have included modernizing its road administration systems to enhance the quality and
physical condition of the road network, integrating key trans-European corridors in Poland
with the EU network, for instance by enhancing the axle load capacity to the 11.5 tons/axle
EU standard, improving road user perceptions of the quality of infrastructure services, and
improving road safety performance. The objectives of the three Bank financed projects
evaluated in this report, the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation project, the Second Road
Maintenance and Rehabilitation project, and the Third Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
project, which were initiated in 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively, mirrored these
challenges.

1.3    Furthermore, as a candidate to the Euro Zone, Poland needed to meet the
convergence criteria of the European Commission Treaty, which added constraints on
public spending and investment, including for transport. Government finances of Euro
Zone countries are evaluated on two criteria: (i) the annual government deficit - the ratio of
annual government budget deficit to the Gross Domestic Product which may not exceed 3
percent; and (ii) government debt – the ratio of gross government debt to Gross Domestic
Product, which should not exceed 60 percent. These requirements limit the potential for
expanding public spending, even in critical areas such as badly needed maintenance of the
road network.

1.4     While significant amounts of EU structure and cohesion funds were available as
grants to develop those parts of Poland’s national road network that integrate with
major Trans-European corridors, the lack of institutional capacity to implement such
large programs of works was a major constraint. The Bank in its assistance strategy
therefore focused on strengthening the institutional capacity of the national road agency
GDDKiA to implement a large-scale investment program funded by the EU, to maintain and
improve the condition of the rest of the 14,000 km national roads network that fell outside of
the EU programs, and to undertake programs to improve road safety, which had become an
increasing concern. Many of the systems and organizational arrangements in the road sector
                                                               2


were legacies from the previous centrally managed era and suffered inefficiencies such as
expensive force account maintenance, which also needed to be addressed.

Prior Support by the World Bank and Other Multi-lateral Development Banks

1.5     Since the beginning of the 1990s, the World Bank and the European Union have been
active in providing support to the Polish road sector. As shown in Table 1, the World Bank
has assisted through three projects during this period, prior to the three loans reviewed in this
PPAR. European institutions, i.e. the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), also provided support to the sector
through three operations which mainly focused on motorway development.

Table 1: Prior Projects in Poland Road Sector Since the 1990s
Organization                     Projects
World Bank                       First Transport Project (1990) – Sector Restructuring and Management
                                 Reform
                                 Roads Project (1992) – Roads Network Management, Road Safety and
                                 Combined Transport
                                 Second Roads Project (1998) – Road Network Development and
                                 Modernization
European Investment              Highways Development – Highway Project
Bank
                                 Motorways Development – A-2 Project and A-4 Extension

European Bank for                Motorway Development Project
Reconstruction and
Development
Source: Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project Appraisal Document


1.6      Despite this earlier support, in 2003 a major proportion of Poland’s national road
network was in an unsatisfactory condition (with 30 percent of the network in “poor”
condition), and institutional capacity to implement works programs was weak. During the
2004-2006 period, the National Roads Agency (GDDKiA) was only able to implement 16
percent of the budget allocated by the EU for road works. 1 Fully utilizing the funds available
from the EU for road works would require that Poland augment its implementation capacity.
Likewise for road safety, Poland faced a major challenge. In 2003, its road traffic injury
fatality rate was double the EU average. The situation was exacerbated by rapidly increasing
motorization, following EU accession, which placed heavy demands on the road network, as
integration with the EU and introduction of key reforms caused rapid increases in both
freight and passenger traffic.

1.7    It was recognized even during the EU accession process, that institutions other than
the Bank such as the EU, EIB and EBRD, were likely to be the longer term partners for
1
 Poland: Transport Policy Note – Toward a Sustainable Land Transport Sector, World Bank, Washington D.C.
2010.
                                                       3


financing the large investment needs of Poland’s road network. 2 However, their envisaged
large-scale assistance was likely to be constrained by Poland’s weak institutional capacity in
the road sector. Consequently, the World Bank’s widely recognized expertise and experience
in road sector institutional development was requested as a useful precursor to the assistance
planned by the various European institutions.

National Roads Network Improvement

1.8     In 2001, the proportion of national road network that was in poor or unsatisfactory
condition totaled 71.5 percent of the network - that is, only 28.5 percent of the network was
in good condition at that time. By 2003, the latter figure had improved to 40 percent, while
roads in poor condition stood at about 30 percent. It was also foreseen that upon accession to
the EU and with the infusion of EU funds to support road investments, there would be heavy
demands on the road sector budget to provide counterpart funds for the EU investment
program, which would squeeze maintenance budgets. This was due to EU funds being
available only for network improvements and not for rehabilitation. It was in this context that
Government and the Bank initiated preparation of a new Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation program for Poland. It was agreed that the Bank’s financial support to the
Government’s medium-term roads program would focus on rehabilitation, and would be
provided through three sequential loans scheduled one year apart. These are the three projects
reviewed in this PPAR. The third project, approved in June 2006, closed in September 2011.

1.9     In preparing these projects, three approaches were considered by the Bank team and
the government for this sequence of investments: a Private Sector Adjustment Loan, a Sector
Adjustment Loan, or a Sector-Wide Approach (SWAp)/Specific Investment Loan (SIL)
hybrid. The first two approaches were found to be unworkable due to difficulties with
Poland’s procurement law and financial management systems which were not acceptable
under the Bank’s policy guidelines. Under the hybrid approach, which was eventually
adopted, funds for road maintenance and rehabilitation works would be pooled with those
from the national budget. The works would be implemented using Poland’s own country
systems for procurement and financial management with individual contracts limited to EUR
6 million, while the institutional development components would be financed under standard
Bank implementation arrangements. This made the loan a hybrid: using country systems for
the physical works, which allowed quicker implementation; and Bank standard procurement
and financial management for the technical assistance which allowed closer supervision of
these more complex institutional development components.

Fiduciary Arrangements

1.10 Because the Bank would rely substantially on Borrower systems, which in turn were
being adapted to conform with relevant EU directives, project preparation included an
independent review of the Public Procurement Law with a view to harmonizing it with EU
directives and Bank policies. While EU directives are generally based on concepts from
accepted international procurement practices, their overriding objective is market integration.
Consequently, the amended Polish Procurement Law had to be adapted under this project in

2
    Poland: Country Partnership Strategy, World Bank, 2003.
                                              4


four areas: (i) no merit point based evaluation would be carried out; (ii) no domestic
preference will apply under National Competitive Bidding; (iii) selection of consultants will
be carried out as per World Bank guidelines; and (iv) the “best offer” will be defined as the
“lowest evaluated bid

1.11 The financial management arrangements included clearly specified arrangements for
funds flow and controls for three types of project expenditures: (i) the GDDKiA
Modernization Action Plan which was a technical assistance component managed by
GDDKiA; (ii) the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation component which was managed by
the respective GDDKiA branches, of which there are 16; and (iii) the Road Safety
Improvement components managed by the National Road Safety Council. The pooling of
funds provided by the national budget, the Bank, and other donors had a slight drawback in
that it is not possible to determine precisely which assets were financed by the Bank. This is
the natural and expected consequence of the pooled funds which is, however, justified by the
benefits of using the Borrower’s own well established systems and processes, with minor
adjustments as needed to conform to Bank policies and guidelines. Third party technical
audits have provided the necessary assurances of the quality of the works produced. The
Bank’s reliance on the Borrower’s controls over quality of works appear to have been
justified and the pooled approach validated.

Road Safety

1.12 As noted earlier, Poland faced a major challenge in the area of road safety. An
assessment in 2003 placed Poland’s road safety record 22nd among 25 EU member countries
(GAMBIT, 2005). The problem of road safety was recognized by the Government in the
early 1990s, and a National Road Safety Council was established in 1993 by an Act of
Parliament. Box 1 below presents the evolution of the Government’s Integrated Road Safety
Program (GAMBIT), which was launched in 2001, and the role played by the World Bank in
this effort. Support for GAMBIT was therefore a key element of the road maintenance and
rehabilitation program, which supported the latest version of the program, referred to as
GAMBIT 2005.

1.13 While Poland managed to reduce fatality rate per 10,000 vehicles from 3.20 in 2005
to 2.77 in 2009 and 2.45 in 2010 (the quality of new vehicle fleets and other factors may have
contributed to increased safety), and annual fatalities due to road accidents from around
5,500 in 2003 to 3,907 in 2010, but Poland’s road fatality rate remains to be one of the
highest among the EU countries in 2012. In interpreting these figures, it may be noted that
road fatalities in Poland are subject to significant annual variations due to factors such as
winter weather conditions and the level of economic activity.
                                                     5




Box 1: Poland – Integrated Road Safety Program GAMBIT 2005

In 1992 a group of World Bank experts produced a report on road safety in Poland that claimed
that road safety could be improved if systemic actions were undertaken by the Government
(Gerondeau, C. et al. “Road Safety in Poland”, 1992). The Polish government acknowledged the
importance of the report, and the National Road Safety Council was established in 1993. Soon
thereafter, the Transport Minister commissioned the Scientific Research Committee of the
Government to develop a research project, the Integrated Road Safety Program (GAMBIT).
Subsequently, GAMBIT 2000 was adopted by the Council of Ministers in 2001 with the strategic
objective of reducing annual road accident fatalities from an estimated number of over 6,500 in
2000 to less than 4,000 by 2010. In Poland road safety was thereafter made the direct
responsibility of the Council of Ministers.

When Poland joined the European Union in 2004, it ranked 22nd among the EU-25 member
countries for road safety. GAMBIT 2005 was launched with the ambitious target of halving the
number of road accident deaths within a decade. The program aimed to save more than 10,000
lives and protect several hundred thousand people from disability caused by road accidents. It was
recognized, that the key to success would be a partnership involving central departments,
government bodies, regional and local governments, as well as insurers, non-governmental
organizations, educational institutions and others. The National Road Safety Council, as the high-
level coordinating body, has been the instrument for making this partnership work. The objectives
and priorities of GAMBIT 2005 are summarized as follows:
    •   Build a basis for an effective and long-term policy – road safety organization, road safety
        management, sectoral actions (police, health, schools, etc.)
    •   Develop safe road behavior – Speed limits, seat belts, alcohol related concerns
    •   Protect pedestrians, children and cyclists
    •   Build and maintain a safe roads infrastructure – evaluation, safe networks of roads and
        streets, traffic management and enforcement
    •   Reduce accident severity and consequences – vehicle safety, forgiving roads (trees, poles),
        rescue of victims, emergency medical services.

It was estimated that 40 percent of the overall goals would be achieved through infrastructure
schemes (road construction, black spots improvement, and maintenance) and 60percent through
other schemes (public education, driver training and licensing, traffic law enforcement and
emergency services).
Source: GAMBIT 2005
                                                               6


2. Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (2004-
2009)
Objectives, Design, and Relevance
OBJECTIVES

2.1     The objective for the first project was stated in the Loan Agreement (LA) and Project
Appraisal Document (PAD) as: “To improve the effectiveness of Poland’s national road
rehabilitation and maintenance systems by: (i) significantly increasing the percentage of
national roads in good condition; (ii) establishing reliable and stable funding for the national
road rehabilitation and maintenance network and for road safety; and (iii) improving the
capacity within GDDKiA to operate efficiently and effectively and to reflect the views of
road users in developing its programs.” Thus, the project had an overall objective and three
sub-objectives pointing to intermediate outcomes.

COMPONENTS

2.2    The components and sub-components are presented in Table 2 together with their
estimated and actual costs. There were four components: (1) GDDKiA Modernization
Action Plan; (2) Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program; (3) Road Safety
Improvement Program; and (4) Technical Assistance to Increase Public Private Partnerships.
The physical works (component two) accounted for about 90 percent of the loan.

Table 2: Project Components, Costs and Sub-components
Components                                 Sub-components
(1) GDDKiA Modernization                   (i) Diagnose the current situation at GDDKiA, implement modernization
Action Plan                                measures at headquarters, and develop procedures for preparation and
Appraisal: US$2.86 million                 implementation of projects; (ii) Complete reorganization at the central and
Actual:    US$1.60 million                 regional levels, and finalize procedures for preparation and implementation
                                           of road projects; (iii) Establish a proper system of strategic planning; and
                                           (iv) Evaluate the efficiency of implemented measures, identify gaps and
                                           review the potential for further improvement.
(2) Road Maintenance and                   The funds were utilized for rehabilitation of the network to address the
Rehabilitation Program                     maintenance backlog, and maintain the balance between maintenance /
Appraisal: US$131.60 million               rehabilitation versus strengthening / new construction for which substantial
Actual:    US$133.31million                funds were being provided from the EU. National budget funds for periodic
                                           maintenance and rehabilitation were pooled with resources provided by WB
                                           and EIB loans.
(3) Road Safety Improvement                Black spots remediation, traffic calming measures, equipment for the road
Program                                    traffic police, the fire brigade and ambulance services, and support for the
Appraisal: US$6.44 million                 Road Transport Inspectorate. Program coordination by the National Road
Actual:    US$6.57 million                 Safety Council.
(4) Technical Assistance to                Design and procure long-term pilot contracts for performance – based
Increase Public Private                    management and maintenance of roads.
Partnerships
Appraisal: US$0.71 million
Actual:    US$0.84 million
Source: Project Appraisal Documents and Implementation Completion Reports
                                              7




2.3      The GDDKiA Modernization Action Plan – the first component - had four stages.
The first was to prepare a detailed diagnosis of the GDDKiA organization, with particular
attention to the deficiencies causing the non-execution of planned programs during 2002 and
2003. A detailed re-organization plan was also prepared together with procedures for
investment project preparation and execution. The second stage was the re-organization of
GDDKiA. In the third stage, a system of Strategic Planning including a time-table for
critical projects up to 2013, plans for motorway concessions, and a plan for strengthening
selected sections of the national roads network to meet the 11.5 ton European axle load
standard were prepared. The final stage reviewed the changes implemented and the need for
further changes to increase the effectiveness of the GDDKiA organization.

2.4     The Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation component was designed to enable a large
number of rehabilitation contracts to be implemented quickly using Poland’s own systems for
fiduciary safeguards. Funds provided through the loan were pooled with loan funds from the
EIB and allocations for road maintenance and rehabilitation in the national budget. World
Bank funds were disbursed as a percentage (67 percent) of an agreed program of
rehabilitation works, using local procurement procedures with all contracts being below EUR
6 million. This was designed as a fast-disbursing component to meet the urgent
rehabilitation needs of the network.

2.5      The Road Safety Improvement Program was a broad ranging effort to tackle the high
rate of road accidents in Poland, which had been estimated to cost the country as much as
two percent of GDP annually. It supported GAMBIT, the Government program described
earlier, which was coordinated by the National Road Safety Council, and involved in
addition to the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of the Interior, the National Police,
Ministries of Health and Education, and others. It addressed accident black spots, provision
of enforcement equipment for the traffic police, education of drivers and pedestrians,
improved signals, public awareness, and other critical aspects of road safety.

2.6     The Public-Private Partnership component focused on developing a policy framework
for out-sourcing road maintenance using performance-based management and maintenance
of roads contracts and developing the needed contract documents.

RELEVANCE

2.7 The relevance of the project objectives was Substantial. The Country Assistance
Strategy of 2002 prepared by the World Bank at the time of Poland’s accession to the EU,
recognized the importance of strengthening road sector institutions to enable absorption of
the vastly expanded resources to be provided by the EU and other European institutions.
The Strategy also noted that the incidence of unsafe and congested roads and high transport
costs added to regional disparities and made the country less attractive to private investment.
The project objectives reflected most of these challenges that country was facing at that time
and established an appropriate role for the Bank’s comparative strengths. The Country
Partnership Strategy of 2009 continued to note that while the EU and other European
institutions, notably the EIB were the main partners and external sources of financing for
                                                8


Poland's road sector, the Bank could continue to play an important role in helping to build
institutions and in complementary investments. The first two projects, however, did not
have an objective related to the much needed improvement in road safety as an EU member,
but instead only included the funding for road safety to be part of reliable and stable funding
objective.

2.8     The relevance of the project design with regard to its approach and the
components financed to achieve the objectives was Modest. The hybrid approach used in
the project design was an innovative response to an unusual situation. At that juncture,
Poland urgently needed access to quick-disbursing road maintenance and rehabilitation funds
to prevent a deterioration of the remainder of its road network not benefitting from EU
funding. Since the requirements of the EU program were draining resources from the rest of
the network, the Bank’s approach to pooled funding using the country systems was critical to
stabilizing the situation. On the other hand, the institutional strengthening activities required
a longer gestation and closer supervision of the technical assistance for which the SIL
approach was more suited. The modernization program for GDDKiA also came just in time
to meet the requirements of the EU program. There were, however inconsistencies between
the objectives and the components and indicators. The project had a component on road
safety and monitored related indicators although it did not have a road safety objective, and
the project’s design did not address the sub-objective of achieving stable and reliable funding
for road maintenance. This was critical to the sustainability of the road sector, and its
absence from the project design proved to be a shortcoming.

 MONITORING AND EVALUATION

2.9     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design: The M&E framework for the project
consisted of the following: (i) clear monitorable milestones for the Modernization Action
Plan; (ii) effective and functioning data collection system that supports the use of HDM-4 by
GDDKiA to track road condition and plan its maintenance activities; (iii) data collection on
road traffic fatalities each year; and (iv) regular road user satisfaction surveys conducted by
GDDKiA. The Modernization Action Plan did not include clear and specific milestones
which could be readily monitored, but the other three activities had clearer frameworks and
milestones for M&E.

2.10 These systems and tools were used to monitor the key performance indicators which
were established at appraisal stage: (i) adoption and continued use of improved road
maintenance and rehabilitation practices within GDDKiA; (ii) evidence of use of a coherent
6-year rolling roads expenditure program together with an adequately balanced
maintenance/investment program; (iii) significant increase in the percentage of the road
network in good condition when compared with the pre-project condition; and (iv) evidence
of high road user satisfaction following rehabilitation or maintenance operations when users
are polled, both about the quality of the completed sections and the inconveniences
associated with the rehabilitation or maintenance process.

2.11 M&E relied on two arrangements. With regard to the condition of the road network,
it relied on the regular data collection carried out by GDDKiA’s Department of Studies. This
office maintains an excellent database of current road conditions, and is responsible for
                                                9


carrying out analytical work using the Bank’s HDM-4 Model to evaluate maintenance and
rehabilitation programs. It relies on the various regional branches to supply data that are
directly integrated with the HDM-4 input software. The other aspect of M&E is the road
safety statistics on road accidents and fatality rates. These data are collected by the National
Road Safety Council, which maintains detailed data on accidents, injuries, fatalities, and the
vehicle fleet to support the M&E design of the project.

2.12 An aspect of M&E which was missed and later proved to be important was any
indicator in the M&E framework on ensuring a stable and reliable source of maintenance
funding. This was a critical oversight, as the shortfalls in maintenance funding may
jeopardize the sustainability of the improvements made under the road maintenance and
rehabilitation program.

2.13 M&E Implementation: The data collection and application of the HDM-4
methodology has been successfully undertaken at the central level as well as at 13 of 16
regional branch offices. While some improvement in the methodology adopted for HDM-4
in planning maintenance is possible it is clear that implementation of the data collection
system for road asset management has been reasonably widespread among GDDKiA branch
offices. Likewise, the road accident/fatality data are well maintained by National Road
Safety Council and provide a solid basis for M&E of the road safety aspects.

2.14 M&E Utilization: Both systems established for monitoring and evaluation, the HDM
based road data and the collection of road safety statistics, performed satisfactorily, and the
data produced has assisted the Government in judging the effectiveness of both the road
rehabilitation program and the road safety program. However, the absence of any system to
monitor the adequacy of road maintenance funding proved to be a major deficiency.

2.15   Overall quality of the project’s M&E is rated as Modest.

Implementation
2.16 The project was approved on March 30, 2004 and closed on December 31, 2008 with
19 months extension. Due to the change in government in 2005, various proposals were
considered for restructuring GDDKiA, including eliminating the entity and decentralizing
responsibilities to the regional branches. GDDKiA was ultimately retained, but the
intervening delay resulted in an extension of the closing dates for the project.

IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE

2.17 Implementation of the maintenance and rehabilitation component alongside
GDDKiA’s own maintenance program, with the funds pooled and disbursed in specified ratio
of Bank to Government resources, and utilizing country systems for all procurement/financial
management requirements, led to effective and speedy implementation of the works.
Financial management report based disbursements also proved effective in establishing a
smooth and timely flow of funds. Discussions with Branch level Directors indicated that the
physical works proceeded without any delays caused by the implementation and
disbursement arrangements of the Bank loan. To the contrary, they stated that apart from
                                              10


regular review meetings with Bank supervision teams and site visits, works implementation
was rarely if ever affected by Bank processes. Disbursement of loan funds allocated to
physical works was largely completed within a year or so of loan effectiveness (see Annex
B).

2.18 The intention of providing a quick disbursing loan for an activity that was an urgent
national priority, was therefore well served. By providing this assistance through a sequence
of loans, the use of country systems could be tested in the first loan, and adjustments made
when subsequent loans were approved. The technical assistance components, however, took
much longer to implement, and the loan had to be extended by 18 months on this account.

2.19 GDDKiA Modernization Action Plan: The Action Plan sought to formalize contract-
type business plans governing the Ministry’s mandate to GDDKiA, and GDDKiA’s mandate
to its regional branches. The target was to agree among the parties and then to implement the
necessary institutional changes. It later emerged that GDDKiA was less in tune with the
changes proposed, which had primarily been championed by the Ministry. The consultant’s
report was delivered in December 2004, but a change of Government in 2005 caused a long
hiatus in the implementation. Whereas the previous Minister favored a wide-ranging
decentralization of responsibilities to the regional branches, this was reversed by the new
Government. It was not until May 2008 - seven months before project closing - when new
top management was appointed at GDDKiA, that these plans were taken up. The key
changes were: (i) decentralization of some functions from headquarters to branch offices,
such as investment planning, preparation and implementation; (ii) re-engineering of key
business processes; and (iii) creating new units at Headquarters for functions such as
environmental analyses and information technology that had not existed previously.

2.20 Public Private Partnerships: This component involved the preparation of
performance-based road maintenance contracts. This initiative experienced delays from the
very beginning of the project. The contract for the preparatory studies was awarded only in
March 2007 and there was a serious lack of understanding between the consultants and the
Government counterparts about the purpose of the studies. In 2008, the Ministry decided to
cancel the pilot sub-component, and the funding was diverted to civil works. The reason for
the failure of the pilot was that, while the concept was supported by the Ministry and by top
GDDKiA management, strong resistance came from GDDKiA operating staff. Deficiencies
in the quality of the consultant’s output and frequent changes of top GDDKiA management
during 2006 - 2008 also contributed.

2.21 Implementation of the Road Safety component was through the National Road Safety
Council, and this inter-ministerial body reporting to the Council of Ministers was tasked to
tap various entities at the national level needed to address the multi-faceted challenges of
road safety. The implementation arrangements, whereby various concerned agencies were
given independent budgets annually, were designed to create a degree of competition in
completing tasks in order to preserve the allocations for the following year. Funding for road
safety initiatives was supposed to have been provided through the Road Fund. However,
most of the activities were eventually funded by the project.
                                                               11


PROJECT COSTS

2.22 Actual project cost was $143.04 million which was exactly the planned total cost.
However, there were some reallocations among components as shown in Table 3 below.

Table 3: Planned and Actual Project Costs by Component (US$ Millions)
Components                                                Appraisal                Actual               Percentage of
                                                          Estimate*                Cost*                Appraisal
A. GDDKiA Modernization Action Plan                       2.86                     1.60                 56%
B. Road Maint & Rehabilitation Program                    131.60                   133.31               101%
C. Road Safety Improvement Program                        6.44                     6.57                 102%
D. Design and Procure long-term pilot                     0.71                     0.84                 118%
performance-based management and
maintenance contract
Total Project Cost                                        141.61                   142.32               100.5%**
Front end fee                                             1.43                     0.72                 50%
Total Financing Required                                  143.04                   143.04               100%
*Exchange rate 1 EUR=1.4304 USD 29 Oct 2007; ** Additional 0.5% from decrease in the front end fee
Source: Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project, Implementation Completion Report dated June 2009

SAFEGUARDS AND FIDUCIARY COMPLIANCE

2.23 The project was rated as a ‘financial intermediary’ for purposes of safeguards, and the
civil works triggered only minor environmental and social impacts since these were small-
scale rehabilitation works within the existing roads’ rights of way and did not require any
land acquisition or entail any displacement of people. The Polish environmental safeguards
upon which the project relied had been reviewed and found to be adequate to the Bank’s
requirements.

2.24 The project clearly specified financial management arrangement for funds flow and
controls for three types of project expenditures for the technical assistance, physical
investments, and road safety components, and these arrangements appear to have been
effective. At one stage in 2006, financial management was rated moderately unsatisfactory
because release payments to contractors was taking excessively long and the Ministry was
failing to submit satisfactory financial management reports. These problems were overcome
by training to GDDKiA branch level and headquarters units on disbursement procedures.
Poland’s procurement law was amended to align with EU directives, and this arrangement
also appears to have worked during implementation because the project did not encounter
serious procurement issues.

Achievement of the Objectives
2.25    The overarching objective was articulated in the PAD as “improve the effectiveness
of Poland’s national road rehabilitation and maintenance systems”, with three sub-objectives
as follows.
                                             12


SIGNIFICANTLY INCREASE THE PERCENTAGE OF NATIONAL ROADS IN GOOD CONDITION

2.26 Altogether, the project financed contracts for the rehabilitation of 917 km of national
roads. The works were packaged into small contracts worth less than EUR 6 million in order
to conform with the procurement arrangements of the loan for using the Borrower’s own
systems. The average contract was about 5 km in length and cost about USD2.4 million, and
was well suited to the capabilities of the local construction industry. The quality of the
works were subjected to a technical audit and found to be of good quality.

2.27 Between 2003 and 2005, the percentage of national roads in good condition increased
from 37 percent in 2003 (baseline) to 49 percent, whereas the target established for 2005 was
43 percent. It further improved to 53 percent in 2008, whereas the target established was 55
percent by 2006.

2.28 The road maintenance and rehabilitation program, collectively funded by the Bank,
Borrower, and other financiers including EIB and EU, was the major program being
implemented by the government and therefore it is likely that the program has contributed to
the achievement of this sub-objective, and therefore it is rated as Substantial.

ESTABLISH RELIABLE AND STABLE FUNDING FOR THE NATIONAL ROAD REHABILITATION
AND MAINTENANCE NETWORK AND FOR ROAD SAFETY

2.29 At the time of preparation of the road maintenance and rehabilitation program, Poland
was expected to have the resources for adequate road maintenance and rehabilitation. Public
expenditure on the national road network was to grow from US$2 billion in 2005 to US$6
billion a year from 2006 to 2010, with the bulk of the funding coming from the EU. What
was not expected was that the counterpart financing requirement for utilizing the EU funds
would strain the Government’s financial resources for the road sector. The severity and the
length of the financial crisis that has impacted the Government’s finances were also
unexpected.

2.30 Following the launch of the rehabilitation program using the project loan, EIB loans
in the amount of EUR 300 million were used for rehabilitation during 2008-2010 and
EUR350 million in 2009-2011. However, the program did not succeed in creating a stable
and reliable mechanism for the funding of road maintenance because in 2009, the National
Road Fund which was to have provided this stable source of maintenance funding, was
restructured and was specifically required to fund only new construction activities with minor
exceptions made for rehabilitation works that can be justified on road safety grounds. This
prohibition of the use of the National Road Fund for maintenance is due to the government’s
desire to fully utilize the EU funding available for new construction, and for which the
provision of sufficient counterpart funds is critical and cannot be delayed. The road networks
were expected to be maintained with financial allocation from the state budget but it often
fell short of the required PLN2.5-3 billion/year. Similarly, road safety programs did not
receive funding from the Road Fund, and whatever has been accomplished relied on funding
provided under the Bank loan. The legislation passed in 2013 is now directing all revenues
from speed management program to the National Road Fund for road safety specific
rehabilitation of national roads starting in 2014.
                                               13


2.31   Achievement on of this objective is consequently rated as Modest.

IMPROVE THE CAPACITY WITHIN GDDKIA TO OPERATE EFFICIENTLY AND EFFECTIVELY
AND REFLECT VIEWS OF ROAD USERS IN DEVELOPING ITS PROGRAMS

2.32 In meetings with the Studies Department of GDDKiA, it was apparent that GDDKiA
had developed an extensive capacity to collect data and analyze road maintenance
requirements using the HDM-4 model. In addition to the headquarters level, 13 of the 16
regional GDDKiA branches now routinely utilize the HDM-4 methodology to track the
condition of their networks and to evaluate proposed rehabilitation programs. This is a
significant achievement. Their data collection systems are now directly linked to the HDM-4
software. However, GDDKiA is not yet utilizing the full capabilities of the HDM-4
approach such as for the evaluation of alternatives, and savings in the initial rehabilitation
costs may be possible. But the current practice essentially meets the requirement that the
road maintenance and rehabilitation program undertake economic evaluations for all
rehabilitation projects. At the time of project closure it was expected that GDDKiA would
eventually extend this capability to evaluate the economics of alternative interventions, such
as reconstruction versus strengthening or overlays. Such a globally optimal assessment of
alternatives would be especially useful when budget constraints require that available
resources be stretched optimally to protect the network as a whole, which is precisely the
situation Poland now faces (see Chapter 4).

2.33 GDDKiA conducted extensive road user surveys in 2004, 2005, with the help of a
professional polling firm based in Poland. Subsequent user surveys done under the second
and third projects (2009 and 2011) showed a good awareness of GDDKiA programs and
confirmation that road users noticed significant improvements in the national road network.
Results of these subsequent surveys are elaborated in Chapters 3 and 4.

2.34 The Performance-based Management and Maintenance of Roads pilot program did
not get implemented. Restrictions on expansion of sovereign liabilities under the EU
accession rules are said to have posed difficulties for this pilot program concept. Also, bids
received for the pilot program were found to be high and were considered unaffordable.
Consequently, GDDKiA did not award a pilot program contract. However, it subsequently
developed an alternative called the “Sustained Standards” approach for outsourcing routine
maintenance in early 2011, partially based on the pilot program contracts developed under
the road maintenance and rehabilitation program (see Chapter 4).

2.35 Some elements of the road maintenance and rehabilitation program have made useful
contributions to GDDKiA’s effectiveness. GDDKiA’s introduction of HDM-4 analysis,
implementation of a modern management information system using SAP, and conducting of
road user satisfaction surveys, have been effective, but there was limited evidence that
demonstrated the improved capacity of GDDKiA to operate efficiently and effectively. The
overall effectiveness of the program is therefore rated as Modest.
                                              14


Efficiency
2.36 An ex-post economic evaluation was conducted after the first two projects, but for a
few examples from Bialystok region, based on a sample review. The calculation done at
appraisal showed between 27 and 50 percent rate of return, and after the works were
completed (i.e. using actual construction cost and actual opening year traffic) the rate of
return ranged between 42 and 87 percent. However, the methodology used for these two
calculations are not fully comparable and since the analysis was only done for one region it is
not representative of the national road network. According to an economic analysis for all co-
financed rehabilitation tasks implemented by GDDKiA in 2005-2007 (first two projects)
which was carried out as part of a quality review of the World Bank in 2009, the weighted
average ERR was 27.1 percent.

2.37 The efficiency of the technical assistance components need to be qualitatively
assessed and the delayed and incomplete implementation of the Modernization Action Plan
would only yield a modest rating on efficiency. Overall efficiency is hence rated as Modest.

Ratings
OUTCOME

2.38 Relevance of objective is Substantial, relevance of design is Modest, and efficiency is
rated Modest. Of the three development sub-objectives, achievement has been rated
Substantial for one and Modest for the other two. The effectiveness of the road program is
undermined by the slow progress in improving the sector’s institutional capability and
funding for road maintenance and therefore achievement of the overarching objective is rated
modest. Consequently, overall outcome is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

2.39 Risk to development outcome is rated Significant. Maintaining a balance between
rehabilitation needs of the existing national roads network and new construction and
improvement works was an important consideration in the Bank’s support for the program.
Government commitment to rehabilitation of the network, and to maintaining the network in
a stable condition at around 60 percent in good condition, appears to have been sacrificed in
recent years in order to support EU funded new construction programs. If adequate funding
for maintenance is not secured, it is likely to affect the sustainability of Poland’s road
network.

BANK PERFORMANCE

2.40 Quality at Entry: The project concept with regard to objectives and the design of
the components was certainly of high relevance to Poland’s needs at the time and continue to
be so even now. The strong focus on road safety, systematic road maintenance project
evaluation using HDM-4, and reform of road sector institutions indicate a high degree of
Bank staff commitment to road sector development. However, in the design of the project
and in its monitoring and evaluation framework, insufficient attention has been given to
                                              15


ensuring least cost solutions and stable funding for maintenance of the network. The
availability of stable maintenance funding lies at the core of effective road network
management, and not including a monitoring indicator on the funding mechanism probably
contributed to its not being given the needed emphasis. Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

2.41 Quality of Supervision: The number and staffing of supervision missions was
adequate. The team did commendable work in supporting the Government’s efforts on a
number of fronts, particularly on road safety. On maintenance funding for the national road
network, the team should have taken action to address the concerns raised about the
reductions in funding caused by the priority given to the EU funded programs. Rating:
Moderately Satisfactory.

2.42 Overall rating of Bank Performance: Inadequate funding of maintenance coupled
with the higher/ excessive axle loads of Trans-European traffic, is putting the national roads
network in Poland at heightened risk of premature failure. The Bank as the external agency
most focused on maintenance of the national road network, should have taken a more pro-
active stance vis-à-vis the Government to alert them to the perverse effect of these policies.
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

BORROWER PERFORMANCE

2.43 Government Performance: The Ministry of Infrastructure/Transport has performed
satisfactorily with regard to rapid compliance with conditions of Board presentation and
effectiveness, as well as in complying with its obligations regarding financial management
and reporting. Counterpart funding was substantially higher than the amount planned at
appraisal. However, it did not pay sufficient attention to securing maintenance funding
through establishing reliable and stable funding for national road networks. With regards to
road safety, the National Road Safety Council was not given sufficient resources or
accountability to ensure smooth implementation of activities and sound coordination between
and among the stakeholders. Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

2.44 Implementing Agencies Performance: GDDKiA processed, awarded and
implemented a large number of rehabilitation contracts within a short period of time. Both
GDDKiA and the National Road Safety Council have also performed well on their
responsibilities under the technical assistance components of the project, though there were
some delays in implementation of the Modernization Action Plan by GDDKiA. Rating:
Moderately Satisfactory.

2.45 Overall Borrower Performance: The performance of the borrower overall has been
pro-active and has resulted in a project that disbursed well and where a majority of the
components were implemented but there were significant issues related to securing reliable
funding for the purpose of maintenance. On balance, overall Borrower performance is rated
as Moderately Unsatisfactory.
                                                              16


3. Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
(2005-2009)
Objectives, Design, and Relevance
OBJECTIVES

3.1      The second road maintenance and rehabilitation project had similar objective and
sub-objectives as the first project both in the Loan Agreement and in the PAD: “To continue
improving the effectiveness of Poland’s national road rehabilitation and maintenance systems
by: (i) further increasing the percentage of national roads in good condition; (ii) establishing
reliable and stable funding for the national road rehabilitation and maintenance network; and
(iii) improving the capacity within GDDKiA to operate efficiently and effectively.”

3.2     The Monitoring Indicators for the second project differed from those for the first
project in some respects: preparation of 6-year rolling plans was eliminated, and targets for
reduced road fatalities and percentage of roads in good condition were enhanced. A new
indicator for length of network strengthened for 11.5 ton axle loads was introduced for the
second project.

COMPONENTS

3.3     The project had two components: (1) Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program;
and (2) GDDKiA Management Information System. Additional details on these components
and their sub-components are in Table 5. The description of the Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation component is identical to that for the first project. The Management
Information System component is described below.

Table 4: Project Components, Costs and Sub-components
Components                                Sub-components
(1) Second Road Maintenance               The funds were utilized for rehabilitation of the network to address the
and Rehabilitation Program                maintenance backlog, and maintain the balance between maintenance /
Appraisal: US$137.32 million              rehabilitation versus strengthening / new construction for which
Actual: US$137.32 million                 substantial funds were being provided from the EU. National budget
                                          funds for periodic maintenance and rehabilitation were pooled with
                                          resources provided by WB and EIB loans.
(2) Management Information                Establish a modern Management Information System for
System                                    GDDKiA which integrates financial-accounting information with
Appraisal: US$5.72 million                contract data, including planning information and physical
Actual     US$5.72 million                measures of works progress and implementation efficiency.
Source: Project Appraisal Documents and Implementation Completion Reports

3.4     GDDKiA Management Information System: The need for a modern Management
Information System for GDDKiA was identified during the implementation of the first
project. Based on a review of available systems it was decided to use SAP to develop an
information system for GDDKiA. The intention was to standardize across the GDDKiA
organization, including both headquarters and regional branch offices, accounting practices
                                               17


and internal control procedures as well as the flow of documents and approvals. It included
establishment of a wide area network connecting headquarters with all the 16 branch offices.

RELEVANCE

3.5      The relevance of the project objectives was Substantial. As described in the
previous Chapter, the Country Assistance Strategy of 2002 prepared by the World Bank at
the time of Poland’s accession to the EU, recognized the importance of strengthening road
sector institutions to enable absorption of the vastly expanded resources to be provided by the
EU and other European institutions. The Strategy also noted that the incidence of unsafe and
congested roads and high transport costs added to regional disparities and made the country
less attractive to private investment. The most of the project objectives reflected these
challenges that country was facing at that time and established an appropriate role for the
Bank’s comparative strengths. The Country Partnership Strategy of 2009 continued to note
that while the EU and other European institutions, notably the EIB were the main partners
and external sources of financing for Poland's road sector, the Bank could continue to play an
important role in helping to build institutions and in complementary investments. The first
two projects, however, did not have an objective related to the much needed improvement in
road safety as an EU member, but instead only included the funding for road safety to be part
of reliable and stable funding objective.

3.6     The relevance of the project design with regard to its approach and the
components financed to achieve the objectives was Modest. As in the first project, the
hybrid approach used in the project design for quick disbursement of funds. Since the
counterpart funding requirements of the EU program were draining resources from the rest of
the network, the Bank’s fast disbursing loan was critical to stabilizing the situation. On the
other hand, the technical assistance component which included the implementation of
management information system required a longer gestation and closer supervision for which
the SIL approach was more suited. While the component on road maintenance and
rehabilitation program was well suited to achieve the first objective of further increasing the
percentage of national roads in good condition, the project’s intention to improve GDDKiA’s
capacity to operate efficiently and effectively only through a component to establish a
modern management information system seemed too ambitious. However, as in the first
project, there were inconsistencies between the objectives and project design. The project had
a component on road safety and the related monitoring indicators although it did not have a
road safety objective, and the project’s design did not address the sub-objective of achieving
stable and reliable funding for road maintenance. This was critical to the sustainability of the
road sector, and its absence from the project design and monitoring indicators proved to be a
major shortcoming.

MONITORING AND EVALUATION

3.7     M&E Design: There is a lack of internal consistency in the M&E design. The PAD
states “The progress reports will focus on results rather than providing process related
information”, but then goes on to state that the reports would list all activities carried out,
including road maintenance and rehabilitation contracts executed during this period and
progress made in the implementation of the management information system.
                                              18


3.8      M&E Implementation: M&E was implemented using a system of annual progress
reports and there is a lack of internal consistency between the monitoring indicators set out
for the project and the contents of the progress reports. The M&E system for the project
essentially retained the arrangements made for the first project. With regard to the condition
of the road network, it relied on the regular data collection carried out by GDDKiA’s
Department of Studies. While road safety was not an explicit objective or a component under
this project, the M&E continued to include the road safety statistics on road accidents and
fatality rates.

3.9     M&E Utilization: Both systems established for M&E, the HDM-4 based road
condition data and the collection of road safety statistics, performed well. The data produced
has assisted the Government in judging the effectiveness of the road rehabilitation and the
road safety programs.

3.10 However, inconsistencies between the monitoring indicators, the projects components
and the progress reporting systems of this project, and the absence of any system to monitor
the adequacy of maintenance budgets are deficiencies, and the overall quality of the M&E
framework for the project is therefore rated as Modest.

Implementation
3.11 The project was approved on March 29, 2005 and it closed on June 30, 2009 with 18
months extension.

IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE

3.12 Discussion of the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation component of second project
is covered in Chapter 2 as this component is simply a continuation of the one in first project.
This section focuses on the implementation experience of the Management Information
System which was a new component introduced in the second project.

3.13 GDDKiA Management Information System: A Strategy for a Comprehensive
Information Technology System had been developed in early 2004 as a part of the
Modernization Action Plan for GDDKiA. During 2006 it was decided to proceed with
development of an Management Information system under three main contracts – a service
contract to establish a wide area network, design of a Enterprise Resource Planning system to
be developed based on the SAP software system, and a consulting contract to computerize
workflow processing. The system’s contract was signed in January 2007, however the
workflow processing contract was cancelled from the loan and postponed until the contract
implementation had advanced sufficiently to allow better coordination. The pilot start-up of
the key Management Information System modules, all financial management and accounting
modules, took place in January 2009, right at the end of the project. In April 2011, the main
financial, human resources, administrative and budgeting modules went online, and now full
roll-out of these new systems to all branches is underway and expected to be completed by
2013. The long delay in setting up the SAP system is largely attributed to the need for a high
degree of customization of the software.
                                               19


PROJECT COSTS

3.14 Actual project cost was 143.04 million which was exactly the planned total cost as
shown in Table 5 below.

Table 5: Planned and Actual Project Costs by Component (US$ Millions)
Components                                  Appraisal        Actual             Percentage of
                                            Estimate         Cost               Appraisal
A. Road Maint. & Rehabilitation Program     137.32           137.32             100%
B. Goods Under Management Inf. System       5.29             5.29               100%
C. Consultant services including auditing   0.43             0.43               100%
services for TA and Management
Information System
Total Project Cost                          143.04           143.04             100%
Source: ICR dated June 2009


SAFEGUARDS AND FIDUCIARY COMPLIANCE

3.15 The project was rated as ‘financial intermediaries’ for purposes of safeguards, and the
civil works triggered only minor environmental and social impacts since these were small
scale rehabilitation works within the existing road’s right of way and did not require any land
acquisition or entail any displacement of people. The Polish environmental safeguards upon
which the project relied had been reviewed and found to be adequate to the Bank’s
requirements. At one stage in 2006 financial management was rated moderately
unsatisfactory because release of payments to contractors was taking excessively long and
the Ministry was failing to submit satisfactory financial management reports. These
problems were overcome by Bank supplied training to staff of the Ministry.

Achievement of the Objectives
3.16 The overarching objective was articulated as “to continue improving the effectiveness
of Poland’s national road rehabilitation and maintenance systems”, with three sub-objectives
as follows.

FURTHER INCREASE THE PERCENTAGE OF NATIONAL ROADS IN GOOD CONDITION

3.17 The percentage of national roads in good condition increased from 46 percent in 2004
(Baseline for the second project) to 53 percent in 2008, whereas the target established was 55
percent by 2006. Hence achievement on this sub-objective fell a little short of the target and
is therefore rated as Substantial.

ESTABLISH RELIABLE AND STABLE FUNDING FOR THE NATIONAL ROAD REHABILITATION
AND MAINTENANCE NETWORK

3.18 As noted previously, the road maintenance and rehabilitation program did not succeed
in creating a stable and reliable mechanism for the funding especially for the purpose of
periodic road maintenance. The National Road Fund which was to have provided this stable
source of maintenance funding was restricted to fund only new construction activities with
                                              20


minor exceptions made for rehabilitation works that can be justified on road safety grounds.
The road networks were expected to be maintained with financial allocation from the state
budget but it often fell short of the required PLN2.5-3 billion/year. It should be noted that at
the time of preparation of the second project, the maintenance funding issue and the
restrictions on the use of the National Road Fund for maintenance had not emerged and could
not be anticipated. With regards to the funding for road safety, the legislation passed in 2013
is now directing all revenues from speed management program to the National Road Fund for
road safety specific rehabilitation of national roads starting in 2014. Achievement on Sub-
objective 2 is rated as Modest.

IMPROVE THE CAPACITY WITHIN GDDKIA TO OPERATE EFFICIENTLY AND EFFECTIVELY

3.19 The Management Information System developed for GDDKiA under the second
project went online at headquarters in April 2011 two years after the project closed. As of
April 2012, it was being rolled out to various branch offices. While the full SAP capability
available in various modules was not yet functional, the key modules such as financial
management, human resources, budgeting, and administrative modules, have been made
available. The roll-out to all branches is expected to be completed by end-2013.
Implementation of the SAP started in 2007, and has taken longer than expected due to
customization requirements which proved difficult but this is not unusual for new
implementations of SAP. However, much of this could not be completed under the second
project and had to be taken up under the third project. The contribution of the second project
to achieving this sub-objective is rated as Modest.

Efficiency
3.20 As described under the Efficiency section in the previous Chapter, an economic rate
of return was calculated after the first two projects were completed, but for a few sample
examples in only one region, and the calculations were not comparable to the rate of return
calculations done at project appraisal. Despite GDDKiA’s assessments that point to 75
percent of contracts having an ex-ante ERR above 20 percent, the absence of the ex-post
analysis in a comparative manner it difficult to generalize this result.

3.21 The efficiency of the technical assistance components need to be qualitatively
assessed and the delayed and incomplete implementation of the Modernization Action Plan
would only yield a modest rating on efficiency. Overall efficiency is hence rated as Modest.

Ratings
OUTCOME

3.22 Relevance of objective is rated Substantial, relevance of design Modest, and the
efficiency is rated Modest. Of the three development sub-objectives, achievement has been
rated Substantial for one, and Modest for the other two. The overall objective of continuing
improving the effectiveness of Poland’s program is rated Modest. The overall project
outcome is therefore rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.
                                               21


RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

3.23 Risk to development outcome is rated Significant. As described in the previous
Chapter, Government commitment to maintain the network in a stable condition appears to
have been sacrificed in recent years in order to support EU funded new construction
programs. Depriving road maintenance funding of its allocations from the Road Fund is one
of the more unfortunate consequences of this shift in policy. If adequate funding for
maintenance is not provided in a reliable and stable manner, it is likely to affect the
sustainability of Poland’s road network.

BANK PERFORMANCE

3.24 Quality at Entry: The project concept with regard to objectives and the design of
the components was certainly of substantial relevance to Poland’s needs at the time and
continue to be so even now. The identification of the critical need to improve GDDKiA
management information systems during implementation of first project speaks to the strong
relevance of the design of the second project. However, there were no project activities to
support the second objective. As a result, in the execution of the project and in its monitoring
and evaluation framework, insufficient attention has been given to ensuring stable funding
for maintenance of the network. The availability of stable funding lies at the core of
effective road network management, and not including a monitoring indicator on the funding
mechanism probably contributed to its not being given the needed emphasis. Rating:
Moderately Satisfactory

3.25 Quality of Supervision: The number and staffing of supervision missions was
adequate. The team did commendable work in supporting the Government’s efforts on a
number of fronts, particularly on road safety. On maintenance funding for the national road
network uninvolved in EU programs, the team should have taken action to address the
concerns raised about reductions in funding caused by the higher priority given to providing
counterpart funding for the EU programs. Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

3.26 Overall rating of Bank Performance: Inadequate funding of maintenance coupled
with the higher/ excessive axle loads of Trans-European traffic, is putting the national roads
network in Poland at heightened risk of premature failure. The Bank as the external agency
most involved in the maintenance of the network could have taken a pro-active stance to alert
the Government of the perverse effect of these policies. Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

BORROWER PERFORMANCE

3.27 Government Performance: The Ministry of Infrastructure/Transport performed
satisfactorily with regard to rapid compliance with conditions of Board presentation and
effectiveness, as well as in complying with its obligations regarding financial management
and reporting. Counterpart funding at completion was about three times the amount planned
at appraisal. However, it did not pay sufficient attention to securing maintenance funding
through establishing reliable and stable funding for national road networks. With regards to
road safety, the National Road Safety Council was not given sufficient resources or
                                              22


accountability to ensure smooth implementation of activities and sound coordination between
and among the stakeholders. Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory.

3.28 Implementing Agencies Performance: GDDKiA processed, awarded and
implemented a large number of rehabilitation contracts within a short period of time.
GDDKiA performed well on its responsibilities under the technical assistance components of
the project, though there were some delays in implementation of the Modernization Action
Plan. Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

3.29 Overall rating of Borrower Performance: The performance of the borrower overall
has been pro-active and has resulted in a project that disbursed well and where a majority of
the sub-components were implemented. Overall Borrower performance is therefore rated as
Moderately Unsatisfactory.



4. Third Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
(2006-2011)
Objectives, Design, and Relevance
OBJECTIVES

4.1     The project objective, as stated in the Loan Agreement was to “assist the Borrower in
continuing improving the effectiveness of the country’s national road rehabilitation and
maintenance systems, with emphasis on quality, efficiency, financial viability, and road user
satisfaction”. The objective is similar in the PAD but it also includes road safety as an added
dimension for emphasis and relevant components and indicators are included in the project
design. Therefore the PAD objectives are used for the purpose of this assessment.

COMPONENTS

4.2    The project had four components: (1) Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program;
(2) GDDKiA Management Information System implementation; (3) Road Safety; and (4)
Technical Assistance to Ministry of Transport and Construction. Additional details on these
components and their sub-components are in Table 8. Some of the components, e.g. for road
maintenance and rehabilitation, were modified slightly in this third project from previous
approaches adopted in first two projects. The following describes the modified or new
components introduced into the program in the third project.
                                                              23


Table 6: Project Components, Costs and Sub-components
Components                                Sub-components
(1) Road Maintenance and                  Same as for component (2) of the first project, and at least one
Rehabilitation Program                    pilot contract for performance based management and
Appraisal: US$167.0 million               maintenance of roads, and a public awareness campaign
Actual: US$181.92 million
(2) Implementation of                     Complete the implementation of GDDKiA’s management
Management Information                    information system. The design of the system and its initial
System                                    implementation was financed under the second project. The
Appraisal: US$3.0 million                 system will be completed through implementation of two
Actual: US$ 4.4 million                   packages including Wide Area Network services and a security
                                          system.
(3) Road Safety                           This component supported road safety campaigns on themes such
Appraisal: US$6.6 million                 as “alcohol and driving”, “speeding”, “safety of children” and
Actual: US$6.85 million                   “pedestrian safety”, as well as technical assistance to the
                                          secretariat of the National Road Safety Council.
(4) Technical Assistance                  This component supported (i) an Intelligent Transport System
Appraisal: US$ 3.6 million                (ITS) study; (ii) Technical assistance to help better and faster
Actual: US$ 1.28 million                  absorption of EU funds; (iii) assistance to improve road technical
                                          standards and traffic management; and (iv) audit of the road
                                          maintenance and rehabilitation projects
Source: Project Appraisal Documents and Implementation Completion Reports

4.3    The road maintenance and rehabilitation component consisted of three sub-
components: (i) physical works for periodic maintenance and rehabilitation covering about
165 contracts spread throughout the national roads network; (ii) at least one pilot contract for
performance-based management and maintenance of roads, and (iii) a public awareness
campaign in support of the Government’s road construction and rehabilitation program,
based on the communications strategy developed by GDDKiA in 2005. The Bank would
contribute a reduced 48 percent share of this program, in view of the EIB contribution to the
financing of the civil works.

4.4    Implementation of the GDDKiA management information system, which had been
developed and partially implemented under the second project, was taken up for completion
under this project. This required implementation of a wide area network to connect regional
branches to Headquarters and a security system for the Management Information System.
This component was fully financed by the Bank.

4.5     Road Safety Component: Under this project the road safety component focused on
public awareness campaigns based on themes such as “alcohol and driving”, “speeding”,
“safety of children” and “pedestrian safety”. The component also funded Technical
Assistance to the National Road Safety Council. This component was fully financed by the
Bank.

4.6     Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Transport and Construction: The component
supported (i) an Intelligent Transport System (ITS) study; (ii) technical assistance to help
better and faster absorption of EU regional funds for the ongoing (2004-2006) and future
(2007-2013) EU transport operational program in Poland; (iii) assistance to improve
                                               24


technical standards and traffic management programs; and (iv) audit for the road
maintenance and rehabilitation projects. The Bank financed 78 percent of this component.

RELEVANCE

4.7      The relevance of the project objectives was High. As described in the previous
Chapter, the Country Assistance Strategy of 2002 prepared by the World Bank at the time of
Poland’s accession to the EU, recognized the importance of strengthening road sector
institutions to enable absorption of the vastly expanded resources to be provided by the EU
and other European institutions. The Strategy also noted that the incidence of unsafe and
congested roads and high transport costs added to regional disparities and made the country
less attractive to private investment. The project objectives reflected these challenges that
country was facing at that time and established an appropriate role for the Bank’s
comparative strengths. The Country Partnership Strategy of 2009 continued to note that
while the EU and other European institutions, notably the EIB were the main partners and
external sources of financing for Poland's road sector, the Bank could continue to play an
important role in helping to build institutions and in complementary investments.

4.8      The relevance of the project design with regard to its approach and the
components financed to achieve the objectives was Modest. The hybrid approach used in
the project design was the same as that used for the previous road maintenance and
rehabilitation projects. The approach remained as relevant as before: Poland urgently needed
access to quick disbursing road maintenance and rehabilitation funds since the counterpart
funding requirement of the EU program was draining resources from the road sector.
Therefore, it was critical to use an approach, such as the SWAp that was designed to
facilitate fast disbursement of project funds to stabilize g the situation. The road
maintenance and rehabilitation component that supported the civil works was appropriate for
achieving the quality of Poland’s national road network and consequently road user
satisfaction, and the technical assistance would contribute to the efficiency of the systems.
Poland also needed to continue improving its road safety record as an EU member, to reduce
road accident fatality rates, and the Bank funded road safety component was critical to this
effort. The project objective as specified in the financing agreement, however omitted the
reference to road safety while it was included in the PAD objective, component, and
indicators. While the project’s design was appropriate and relevant in these respects, it did
not address the sub-objective of achieving financial viability. This was critical to the
sustainability of the project and the road sector, and its absence from the project design and
monitoring indicators proved to be a major shortcoming.

MONITORING AND EVALUATION

4.9      M&E Design: The M&E system designed for the project essentially retained the
arrangements made for the first and second projects. The indicators covered most of the key
objectives – quality, efficiency, safety and road user satisfaction, the one exception being
financial viability. With regard to the condition of the road network, it relied on the regular
data collection carried out by GDDKiA’s Department of Studies. The other aspect of M&E
is the road safety statistics on road accidents and fatality rates. These data were collected by
                                               25


the National Road Safety Council and they have maintained detailed data on accidents,
injuries, fatalities, and vehicle fleet as necessary to support the M&E design of the project.

4.10 Failure to address the sub-objective of ensuring the financial viability of the road
sector, in particular for the funding of maintenance, was a critical oversight. The shortfalls in
maintenance funding now appear to have jeopardized the sustainability of the improvements
made under the program.

4.11 M&E Implementation: GDDKiA has a comprehensive data collection system for road
conditions and traffic levels as needed to support the monitoring indicators in these aspects.
The National Road Safety Council maintains up-to-date information on traffic and accidents
statistics. Therefore data on road pavement conditions and safety statistics were well
provided for in the M&E framework. Road user perceptions were the subject of four surveys
undertaken in 2005, 2006, 2009 and 2011 and these were useful in recording improvements
in user perceptions of the road network. As noted earlier, the main deficiency in the M&E
framework was the absence of any indicators or data on the financial and budget situation for
the maintenance of the road network. Presently, in addition to the fuel levies being deposited
in the Road Fund, there are toll revenues being generated from the new motorway
developments. However, the M&E framework for the project does not produce a
consolidated view of these resources or their availability to fund maintenance.

4.12 M&E Utilization: Both systems established for monitoring and evaluation, the HDM
4 based road data and the collection of road safety statistics, continued to perform well, and
the data produced has assisted the Government in judging the effectiveness of both the road
rehabilitation and the road safety programs.

4.13   Overall quality of the M&E system for the project is rated as Modest.

Implementation
4.14 The project was approved on June 6, 2006 and closed on September 15, 2011
according to the original schedule.

IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE

4.15 Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program: Road rehabilitation works
proceeded very rapidly which is indicative of an enhanced capability of GDDKiA. Within
less than a year almost 80 percent of the road works had been completed with 810 km of
roads rehabilitated. As a result, more road works were completed than originally planned.
At project closing, road works had been implemented on 218 contracts with a total length of
1,103 km. The performance based management and maintenance of roads initiative however
experienced delays, and the contract for preparatory studies was awarded only in March 2007
due to a lack of understanding by GDDKiA as to the purpose of the study. In 2008 this sub-
component was canceled by the Ministry, after bids received were found to be high, and the
allocated funds were used for civil works. The Ministry eventually developed an alternative
approach to outsourcing maintenance which did not involve rehabilitation. This approach
named the Sustained Standards approach, is for routine maintenance (only) of a rehabilitated
                                              26


or newly constructed road. A four year maintenance contract using this approach was
awarded for an 84 km section of the A3 highway. Subsequently, GDDKiA also decided to
outsource all rehabilitation works because they found the cost to be nearly a third of in-house
rehabilitation works. While some force account maintenance work continues, its role has
been significantly reduced. It may be concluded that the performance based management
and maintenance of roads initiative has borne fruit, though not directly as anticipated – this
may be considered a spill-over effect of the Bank’s initiative on outsourcing road
rehabilitation and maintenance. The public awareness campaign was successfully completed
and also helped develop media awareness and training, including media campaigns on road
traffic safety.

4.16 GDDKiA Management Information System: A Strategy for a Comprehensive
Information Technology System had been developed in early 2004 as a part of the
Modernization Action Plan for GDDKiA. During 2006, under the second project, it was
decided to proceed with development of an Management Information System under three
main contracts – a service contract to establish a wide area network, a contract for the design
of an Enterprise Resource Planning system based on the SAP software system, and a
consulting contract to computerize workflow processing. The contract was signed in January
2007, however the workflow processing contract was cancelled from the loan and postponed
until the contract implementation had advanced sufficiently to allow better coordination
between the two. The pilot start-up of the key Management Information System modules,
and all financial management and accounting modules, took place in January 2009 under the
second project and in April 2011, the main financial, human resources, administrative and
budgeting modules went online, and now full roll-out of these new systems to all branches is
underway and expected to be completed by 2013. The long delay in setting up the SAP
system is attributed to the need for a high degree of customization of the software.
4.17 Technical Assistance to Ministry of Transport and Construction: This Technical
Assistance took the form of a study on Intelligent Transport Systems. Unfortunately, the
expectations of this study which involved diverse disciplines, shifted and the eventual
outputs of the consultants work did not match the expectations of the client. Consequently,
the study was eventually dropped, and the funds were utilized for a variety of minor technical
assistance activities such as a strategic environment assessment for road transport
development.

PROJECT COSTS
4.18 Actual project cost was $194.45 million versus the planned total cost of $180.20
million as shown in Table 7 below. With the exception of the technical assistance to
Ministry of Transport and Construction, which disbursed only about a third of the amount
planned, all of the other components exceeded the planned budget. The increase was due to
the appreciation of the Euro, in which the loan was denominated, versus the USD. In the
case of the physical works the cost increases were also due to reallocation of funds to road
works from other components and an expansion of the works undertaken.
                                                  27


Table 7: Planned and Actual Project Costs by Component (US$ Millions)
Components                                  Appraisal         Actual              Percentage of
                                            Estimate          Cost                Appraisal
A. Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation      167.0             181.92              109%
Program
B. Implementation of Management             3.0               4.40                147%
Information System
C. Road Safety                              6.6               6.85                104%
D. Technical Assistance                     3.6               1.28                36%
Total Project Cost                          180.20            194.45              108%
Source: ICR dated June 2009


SAFEGUARDS AND FIDUCIARY COMPLIANCE

4.19 The project’s works triggered only minor environmental impacts since these were
small scale rehabilitation works within the existing road’s right of way and did not require
any land acquisition or entail any displacement of people. The Polish environmental
safeguards upon which the project relied had been reviewed and found to be adequate to the
Bank’s requirements.

4.20 Annual procurement post reviews confirmed that procurement activities related to the
works component were implemented using country procurement systems, and were carried
out satisfactorily. Financial management was rated “moderately satisfactory” by Bank
supervision missions principally because the implementation of the SAP financial systems
was delayed. In general Financial Management/Disbursement processes have been
satisfactory with clean audit opinions. The Audit reports and the Financial Management
Reports were generally received on time.

Achievement of the Objectives
4.21 The overarching objective of the program was stated to "continue improving the
effectiveness of Poland’s national road rehabilitation and maintenance systems, with
emphasis on quality, efficiency, financial viability, safety and road user satisfaction'.
Assessment of each of the five sub-objectives; quality, efficiency, financial viability, safety,
and road user satisfaction are presented below.

QUALITY

4.22 The project implemented 218 contracts with a total length of 1,103 km which
corresponds to six percent of the national road network. As a result, between 2003 and 2009,
the percentage of national roads in good condition increased from 37 percent in 2003
(baseline of the first project) to 59.6 percent in 2009, essentially achieving the project target
of 60 percent in good condition. According to public information, this had improved to 62.7
percent by year 2012. The load bearing capacity of the road network has improved
significantly beyond the target of 3,300 km from the baseline of 2,191 km to 5,897 km. The
IEG mission which was undertaken after project closure learnt that the works undertaken has
                                              28


been subjected to technical audits and found to be of good quality. The achievement of the
quality objective has therefore been rated as High.

EFFICIENCY

4.23 The pilot for the performance based maintenance and management of roads was not
implemented as scheduled because of the strong resistance from GDDKiA operating staff,
deficiencies in the quality of the consultant, and frequent changes of GDDKiA management.
However, towards the end of the project GDDKiA did procure a four year maintenance
contract termed "sustained standards" contract, similar to what was originally prepared under
the project for 84 km of the expressway and planned to use this contract for all newly
constructed highways and upgraded roads. In addition some routine maintenance works were
outsourced. As of 2013, the government has rolled out this new form of performance based
contract in at least six road networks. The sustained standards” contracts implemented by
GDDKiA found that using the private contractor, the same maintenance work could be
carried out with only 37 percent of the costs, saving 63 percent of the maintenance budget.
This approach has proved beneficial as it also allows outsourcing of maintenance during a
construction contract’s defects- liability period (typically 5 years from completion) and
thereby improves contract enforcement. This should in the long-run allow GDDKiA to
gradually phase out its force account routine maintenance operations, and therefore may be
considered a significant advance over current arrangements. The sustained standards
approach is a simpler form of performance based maintenance out-sourcing, as it relates only
to routine maintenance, and administering such contracts would be less complex and
therefore more predictable. The reduced risks should also allow the contractors to bid lower,
more competitive prices. The government continues to approach the World Bank to seek for
more guidance in handling performance based contracts. Albeit with delays, the project at
least partly contributed to the government's plan to use performance based road maintenance
and management contracts. These performance based contracts are medium term in nature
(first contracts were four years and the newest ones are seven years), they are likely to
stabilize funding for the part of the network covered by those contracts as well. GDDKiA has
also managed to contain its number of employees despite the increasing budget and this has
resulted in significant productivity increase for the agency.

4.24 With regards to the modernization action plan, the project supported the
reorganization of GDDiKA into three departments; (i) planning; (ii) investment; and (iii)
maintenance and establishment of units for traffic management and quality control of
construction. Functional reclassification of road system however was not implemented as
scheduled because of political resistance to reallocate the budget. Some progress has been
made to revise the procurement rule, and to modernize human resources, information and
data, and financial management. However, the use of the system is limited to accounting and
financial management and there was limited evidence on the effectiveness of the
implemented activities in building the capacity of GDDiKA to operate efficiently.

4.25 The enabling environment to use the HDM-4 system was created through system
installation and capacity building of GDDKiA staff, and the system is being used for the
purpose of assessing the returns of each investment by all sixteen regions. In at least two to
three regions, the system has also been used for optimizing the allocation of resources at the
                                              29


network level under budget constraints. Some regions are experiencing difficulties using the
system for the network analysis and prioritization purpose because of the complexity in
collecting the necessary data (see Annex D for detailed description of the use of HDM-4
under budget constraints).

4.26   On balance, the efficiency objective of the project is rated as Substantial.

FINANCIAL VIABILITY

4.27 The National Road Fund which would have provided stable source of maintenance
funding, has been specifically instructed to fund only new construction with minor
exceptions for works justified on road safety grounds. Counterpart financing requirement for
accessing EU funds therefore strained the Government’s financial resources available for the
road sector. The severity and length of the financial crisis that has impacted the
Government’s finances since 2009 has exacerbated the situation. As a result, the funding for
rehabilitation and maintenance was reduced in 2010 and 2011, after the closing of the
project. In 2012, the government increased its budget for periodic maintenance but it is
unclear whether this increase in allocation of maintenance funding will be sustained during
the next few years. While the routine road maintenance funding is consistently being funded,
securing sufficient amount of periodic maintenance funding in a reliable manner continues to
be a challenge. Therefore the achievement of the financial viability objective is rated as
Modest.

ROAD SAFETY

4.28 Outputs related to road safety included; (i) individual and institutional consultancy
services to the National Road Safety Council; (ii) road safety studies and analysis, (iii) soft
measures in the form of public relations activities and awareness campaigns; and (iv) support
for investments and implementation of safety equipment and facilities. Large road safety
campaigns were launched to modify behavior to promote road safety, including topics such
as “driving vehicles under alcoholic influence”, “driving vehicles at unreasonable speed”,
and”usage of seatbelts and child restraint”. Blackspot elimination program on regional roads
were also implemented.

4.29 The number of road accident fatalities in Poland declined from 5,500 (Baseline of the
first project) in 2003 to 3,907 in 2010 which was well below the project target of <4700
fatalities. However, Poland failed to achieve its road safety program's Vision Zero target of
reducing the fatalities by 50 percent between 2003 and 2013, and continued to have the
highest fatality rate in the EU at 110 per million population, compared to the EU average of
60 in 2012. According to a report produced by Global Road Safety Facility in 2013, EU
average in reducing road deaths over the period 2001-2011 was 45%, compared to 24% in
Poland (Annex C). Achievement of the road safety objective is therefore rated as Modest.

ROAD USER SATISFACTION

4.30 After the baseline survey conducted in 2004, GDDKiA conducted surveys in 2005,
2009 and most recently in 2011 with the help of a professional polling firm based in Poland.
The last two surveys were carried out during this third project implementation period. The
                                               30


latest survey found significant improvements in road user perceptions of both GDDKiA as an
institution as well as of the physical condition of the national roads network. It showed a
good awareness of GDDKiA programs and confirmed that road users noticed significant
improvements in the national road network. In 2005 only 2-3 percent of users were found to
have a positive opinion of the national road network, whereas by 2009 this proportion had
increased to 30-35 percent, and in 2011 it was at 38 percent. The users’ enhanced awareness
was noticed also for the increasing enforcement of road safety measures and improvements
in road geometrics with elimination of accident black spots. The surveys have also sensitized
GDDKiA to road user perceptions of GDDKiA own operations. While the results of the
surveys show the desired improving trend, their frequency and regularity needs
improvement. On balance, the achievement of this sub-objective is rated as Substantial.

Efficiency
4.31 95 percent of the 2005-2006 contracts and 17 percent of the 2008 and 2011 contracts
had ex-ante economic rate of return (ERR), using the HDM-4 model. The overall ex-ante
ERR was 37 percent and the median ERR for periodic maintenance for overlay of 30-50mm
was 43 percent, for rehabilitation it was 38 percent, and for widening of roads to 7.0 meters it
was 28 percent. improvement An ex-post economic evaluation was conducted for the
Implementation Completion and Results Report based on the actual traffic growth rate (3.4
percent p.a. versus 5.2 percent p.a. assumed at appraisal) and the actual costs (which were 2
percent above estimated costs), and the rate of return for a sample project was 33.4 percent,
indicating a small reduction but still yielding an acceptable ERR.

4.32 GDDKiA’s assessments point to 75 percent of contracts having an ex-ante ERR
above 20 percent. While the ex-post analysis was not done for all roads, the result of the
sample project analysis indicates that it is likely that most roads had a rate of return above the
benchmark of 12 percent and close to the appraisal value of 37 percent. Efficiency for this
project is therefore rated as Substantial.

Ratings
OUTCOME

4.33 Relevance of objective was High, relevance of design was Modest, and efficiency
was Substantial. Achievement of the quality objective was High, efficiency and road user
satisfaction were Substantial, and financial viability and road safety were Negligible. Based
on the above assessments the PPAR outcome rating is Moderately Satisfactory.

RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

4.34 Risk to development outcome is rated Significant. Maintaining a balance between
rehabilitation needs of the existing national roads network and new construction and
improvement works, was an important consideration in the Bank’s support for Poland’s road
maintenance and rehabilitation program. Government commitment to rehabilitation of the
network, and to maintaining the network in a stable condition at around 60 percent in good
condition, appears to have been sacrificed in recent years in order to support EU funded new
                                              31


construction programs. Depriving road maintenance funding of its allocations from the Road
Fund is one of the more unfortunate consequences of this shift in policy. The fiscal
constraints facing the Government since the financial crisis in 2009 may have contributed to
an inadequate appreciation of the damage done both to the physical network itself, and to the
institutional capability for maintenance, by the frequent neglect of periodic maintenance. In
the years 2011-2013 the allocations for current maintenance and rehabilitation reached
around PLN2.5 billion and tolling of the newer expressways now under construction may
provide additional revenues to the Road Fund. However, the Government needs to give a
high priority to restoring the reliable and stable allocations for periodic maintenance. Road
safety improvement program is expected to be funded in a stable manner following the
legislation adopted in 2013 that directs all revenues from speed management program to the
National Road Fund for road safety specific rehabilitation of national roads.

BANK PERFORMANCE

4.35 Quality at Entry: The project concept with regard to objectives and the design of
the components was certainly of high relevance to Poland’s needs at the time and continue to
be so even now. The strong focus on road safety, systematic road maintenance planning
using HDM-4, and reforms of road sector institutions indicate a high degree of Bank staff
commitment to road sector development. However, in the execution of the project and in its
monitoring and evaluation framework, insufficient attention appears to have been given to
the financial viability aspects. In addition, the project monitoring indicators related to road
safety were not in line with the higher ambitions of the national road safety program which
was to reduce fatalities by 50 percent between 2003 and 2013. Rating: Moderately
Satisfactory

4.36 Quality of Supervision: While the number and staffing of supervision missions was
adequate, their effectiveness could have been greater. The Bank could have reacted more
forcefully on the Government’s refusal to utilize the National Road Fund for maintenance
and rehabilitation of the network. It is understandable that owing to the fast disbursing
nature of the three operations, the Bank had little leverage over Government’s actions
subsequent to the financial crisis in 2008/9. It would have been worthwhile to take a strong
position, by for instance suspending disbursements or other such action, to indicate to
Government the seriousness with which the Bank views such developments. Despite the
shortcomings the PPAR has found that the Bank support has contributed significantly to the
road maintenance and rehabilitation program in Poland, as evidenced in their continued
request for the Bank’s technical assistance even after project closure. Rating: Moderately
Satisfactory.

4.37 Overall rating of Bank Performance: Frequent maintenance funding shortfalls
coupled with the higher/ excessive axle loads of Trans-European traffic, is putting the
national roads network in Poland at heightened risk of premature failure. This adverse
process has already begun with reducing proportions of the network in good condition in
2010 and 2011. The Bank as the agency most focused on maintenance and rehabilitation of
the national road network, should have taken a more pro-active stance vis-à-vis the
Government and the EU to alert them to the perverse effect of their funding priorities.
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.
                                              32


BORROWER PERFORMANCE

4.38 Government Performance: The Ministry of Infrastructure/Transport has performed
satisfactorily with regard to rapid compliance with conditions of Board presentation and
effectiveness, as well as complying with its obligations regarding financial management and
reporting. However, the Government’s commitment to the objective of improving the
condition of the national road network appears to have been weakened by the fiscal crisis
faced by Poland since 2008/9. In 2012 the road conditions improved when the Government
invested in the long overdue periodic maintenance activities, but the prohibition on the use of
the National Road Fund for maintenance expenditures, which should correctly be its only
valid use, was caused by a shift in the government’s short term priorities during the fiscal
crisis, and now that the situation has improved the prohibition could be lifted to restore
funding of the maintenance and rehabilitation program. With regards to road safety, the
National Road Safety Council and other agencies were not given clear leadership,
accountability, and responsibility to ensure sound coordination between and among the
stakeholders. Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

4.39 Implementing Agencies Performance: Both GDDKiA and the National Road
Safety Council have performed well on their responsibilities under the project with a few
shortcomings. GDDKiA implemented the road maintenance and rehabilitation component
effectively, disbursing a bulk of the funds within a little more than a year, and the works
produced have been found to be of good quality. The target to be achieved for road network
condition was essentially met. Though the performance-based management and maintenance
of roads pilot contract was unsuccessful, based on this experience GDDKiA did succeed in
introducing a modified form of performance based maintenance contract (Sustained
Standards contract) that was better suited to conditions in Poland and creates the possibility
of progressive outsourcing of road maintenance works. Implementation of the Management
Information Systems technical assistance components did suffer long delays and was only
partially successful. The Enterprise Resource Planning system in particular encountered
significant problems and some modules had to be dropped. Likewise the Intelligent
Transport System Study was dropped due to lack of coordination between GDDKiA and the
consultant on the objectives of the study. National Road Safety Council performed well on
its campaigns to boost public awareness in a number of areas such as seat belt use, alcohol
and driving, speeding, child safety, and pedestrian safety. Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

4.40 Overall Borrower Performance: Notwithstanding the above noted deficiency in the
Government’s performance, the performance of the borrower overall has been pro-active and
has resulted in a project that disbursed well and where a majority of the components were
implemented efficiently. Overall Borrower performance is therefore rated as Moderately
Satisfactory.



5. Lessons
5.1    The assessment of three consecutive projects supporting Poland’s road maintenance
and rehabilitation projects have found that when planning sequential operations that involve
                                               33


sector reforms, it is important to ensure that sufficient disbursement leverage is retained to
ensure the satisfactory implementation of the institutional development components, as well
as a realistic time-frame for the operation. In retrospect, a critical issue raised by the
experience of Poland’s Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program is the appropriateness
of a strategy of funding fast disbursing physical works, coupled with an institutional
development program which required a much longer period for implementation. A majority
of the funding for physical works, which constituted about 90 percent of the loan amounts,
had been disbursed in the first three years of the program, 2004 through 2006. When
subsequent issues arose, most particularly with respect to maintenance funding and the
availability of the National Road Fund for maintenance and rehabilitation of the network, the
Bank did not have effective recourse to the usual remedies of suspension of loan
disbursements. While principled persuasion is always possible, the added leverage of
withholding funding is often needed to get the attention of senior policy makers.

5.2     The second lesson relates to the use of country systems which worked when
combined with adequate ex-post audits, as it contributed to fast disbursement of quality
works. The Sector Wide Approach adopted for the implementation of civil works using the
borrower’s own systems worked well in a country where there is already a functioning
system. Rehabilitation works using country systems for small contracts (each worth less than
EUR 6 million) led to a cost effective program with high rates of return. Fiduciary and
safeguards oversight can be based on ex-post audits of the efficacy of internal controls.
Quality control based on third party technical audits also proved adequate and efficient. This
modality for implementation is not used often in Bank projects, and the experience here
suggests that for future Bank funded operations, upfront assessment should be made
systematically to see whether the country systems can be used. Packaging of the works into
smaller contracts also appears to have benefitted the local construction industry and allowed
faster implementation of the rehabilitation program.

5.3      The third lesson regards the use of HDM-4 to ensure the efficiency of the
rehabilitation program. While it is important to ensure that individual rehabilitation projects
have an adequate ERR, it is also important to clear the maintenance backlog in a reasonable
period of time within available budgets. This requires that maintenance budget constraints be
factored into the choice of maintenance interventions. The roads in poor condition at the
start of the program in 2003 totaled about 30 percent of the national roads network. In 2011,
there were still about18 percent of the network in poor condition. This means the program
over a 8 year period had not managed to eliminate the maintenance backlog of roads in poor
condition. This failure relates principally to the shortfalls in maintenance budgets, and could
probably have been avoided if the HDM-4 analysis had considered the budget constraints and
chosen rehabilitation alternatives that fitted within the budget envelope.

5.4     Finally, it is important that all objectives set for the program be reflected in the
monitoring indicators for the program. Absent this the objective is unlikely to receive the
attention needed. The absence of clearly monitorable indicators for maintenance funding
may have contributed to the inadequate attention given to establishing a stable and reliable
source of funding for maintenance of the national roads network. Road safety, on the other
hand, was identified as a critical issue for the country to address at project design stage, and
consequently components and monitoring indicators were included but lacked a specific
                                             34


objective in the first two projects. While the third project explicitly included a road safety
objective, the related indicators were under ambitious compared to the country’s overall goal.
                                                  35


References

World Bank. 1988. “Road Deterioration in Developing Countries – Causes and Remedies”. Washington,
       D.C.
______. 2002. Poland Country Assistance Strategy, Washington, D.C.
______. 2004. Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project, Project Appraisal Document, Report No.
        27577 – POL. Washington D.C.
______. 2005a. Poland Country Partnership Strategy, Washington, D.C.
______. 2005b. Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project, Project Appraisal Document, Report
        No. 31324-PL. Washington D.C.
______. 2006. Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project III, Project Appraisal Document, Report No.
        35324-PL. Washington D.C.
______. 2009a. Poland Country Partnership Strategy, Report No. 48666-PL. Washington, D.C.
______. 2009b. Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project, Implementation Completion and Results
        Report, Report No. ICR0000540. Washington, D.C.
______. 2009c. Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project, Implementation Completion and
        Results Report, Report No. ICR0000541. Washington, D.C.
______. 2010. Transport Policy Note – Toward a Sustainable Land Transport Sector, GAMBIT 2005,
        National Road Safety Council, Poland, 2005
______. 2012. Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project III, Implementation Completion and Results
        Report, Report No. ICR2141. Washington, D.C.
______. 2013. Global Road Safety Facility. “Country Report on Poland Road Safety Management
        Capacity Review
                                              37                                            ANNEX A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN NO. 72230-POL)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                           Appraisal            Actual or            Actual as % of
                                           estimate          current estimate       appraisal estimate
Total project costs                          195.2                     324.3                166
Loan amount                                  124.7                     122.0                98
Cancellation                                      -                    0.74                  -


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                                   FY04       FY05           FY06          FY07     FY08          FY09
Appraisal estimate (US$M)          120.0      123.0          126.0         126.0    126.0         126.0
Actual (US$M)                       1.23      114.6          120.3         120.3    122.0         122.0
Actual as % of appraisal            1.0           93              95           95     96           96
Date of final disbursement: June 2009


Project Dates
                                                       Original                       Actual
Negotiations                                          02/17/2004                    02/17/2004
Board approval                                        03/30/2004                    03/30/2004
Signing                                               04/07/2004                    04/07/2004
Effectiveness                                         05/03/2004                    06/10/2004
Closing date                                          06/30/2006                    12/31/2008


Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                  No. of staff weeks                     USD Thousands (including
                                                                         travel and consultant costs
Lending
FY03                                       23.9                                     62.8
FY04                                       31.8                                     101.1
                      Total                56.3                                     164.7
ANNEX A                                      38


Supervision/ICR
FY04                                   0.7                           0.85
FY05                                  21.1                           58.6
FY06                                  18.1                           52.6
FY07                                   9.6                           30.0
FY08                                  12.3                           31.8
FY09                                  17.0                           51.6
                  Total               78.9                          226.0


Task Team Members
                                                                     Responsibility/
          Names                          Title               Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
Michel Audigė             Lead Transport Specialist         ECSSD Team Leader
Anca Dumitrescu           Transport Specialist              ECSSD Team Leader
Andreas Schliessler       Senior Transport Specialist       ECSSD Peer Reviewer
Barbara Letachowicz       Environmental Specialist          ECSSD Environment
William Paterson          Consultant                        EASTR Peer Reviewer
Chiyo Kanda               Quality Reviewer                  OPCIL Quality
Chiyo Kanda               Senior Operations Officer         OPCIL Peer Reviewer
Claudia Pardinas-Ocana    Senior Counsel                    LEGEC Legal
Daria Goldstein           Counsel                           LEGEC Legal
Elena Kastlerova          Transport Specialist              ECSIE Transport
Elzbieta Siemenska        Procurement Specialist            ECSPS Procurement
Iwona Warzecha            Senior Financial Management       ECSPS Financial
                          Specialist                              Management
Marie Laygo               Program Assistant                 ECSSD Team Support
Supervision/ICR
Michel Audigė             Lead Transport Specialist         ECSSD   Team Leader
Anca Dumitrescu           Transport Specialist              ECSSD   Team Leader
Radoslaw Czapski          Operations Officer                ECSIE   Team Leader
Claudia Pardinas-Ocana    Senior Counsel                    LEGEC   Legal
Daria Goldstein           Counsel                           LEGEC   Legal
Iwona Warzecha            Sr. Financial Mgmt Specialist     ECSPS   Financial Mgmt
Karina Mostipan           Sr. Procurement Specialist        ECSPS   Procurement
Magdalena Wasik           Program Assistant                 ECCU7   Team Support
Malgorzata Michnowska     Program Assistant                 ECCU7   Team Support
Marcin Jan Sasin          Economist                         ECSPE   Economic Analysis
Marie Laygo               Program Assistant                 ECSIE   Team Support
Piotr Krzyzanowski        Senior Environmental Specialist   ECSSD   Safeguards
Robert Kietlinski         Senior Operations Officer         ECSIE   Operations
Zoe Kolovou               Senior Counsel                    LEGEC   Legal
Ross Pavis                Operations Officer                ECSSD   ICR Team Leader
Graham Smith              Consultant                        ECSSD   ICR Author
                                             39                                    ANNEX A


Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency: Ministry of Finance, Republic of Poland/General Directorate for
National Roads and Motorways (GDDKiA)
Follow-on Operations
Operation                                    Loan no.     Amount           Board date
                                                          (US$ million)
Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation IBRD-          130.5            March 29, 2005
Project                                    72820
ANNEX A                                                         40


SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN NO. 72820-
POL)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                                                                              Actual as % of
                                                         Appraisal           Actual or        appraisal
                                                         estimate            current estimate estimate
Total project costs                                         208.0                 371.3              178
Loan amount                                                   130.5                  121.3                          93
Cancellation                                                      -                   0.79                           -
Co-financing                                                    13                   N.A.*                       N.A.*
*Actual contribution by the Borrower including through external sources, such as EU grants or EIB loans is estimated to amount to
$250 million.


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                          FY05     FY06     FY07                                          FY08          FY09          FY10
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                    70.0          128.0           130.5          130.5         130.5         130.5
Actual (US$M)                                 0.0          115.6           116.6          117.3         121.3         121.3
Actual as % of appraisal                     70
Date of final disbursement:                December 2009

Project Dates
                                                                   Original                                Actual
Negotiations                                                      02/17/2005                             02/17/2005
Board approval                                                    03/30/2004                             03/29/2005
Signing                                                           04/26/2005                             04/26/2005
Effectiveness                                                     05/02/2005                             06/16/2005
Closing date                                                      12/31/2007                             06/30/2009

Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                       No. of staff weeks                             USD Thousands (including
                                                                                      travel and consultant costs
                            Total                         78.9                                           226.0
Lending
FY05                                                      35.7                                           112.9
                            Total                         35.7                                           112.9
Supervision/ICR
FY05                                                        0.2                                            0.1
                                        41                               ANNEX A


FY06                                30.2                          77.1
FY07                                15.6                          54.2
FY08                                16.7                          58.6
FY09                                19.4                          58.2
                 Total              82.1                         248.2

Task Team Members

                                                                 Responsibility/
Names                    Title                         Unit
                                                                 Specialty
Lending
Michel Audigė            Lead Transport Specialist     ECSSD Team Leader
Anca Dumitrescu          Transport Specialist          ECSSD Team Leader
Andreas Schliessler      Senior Transport Specialist   ECSSD Peer Reviewer
Barbara Letachowicz      Environmental Specialist      ECSSD Environment
William Paterson         Consultant                    EASTR Peer Reviewer
Chiyo Kanda              Quality Reviewer              OPCIL Quality
Chiyo Kanda              Senior Operations Officer     OPCIL Peer Reviewer
Claudia Pardinas-Ocana   Senior Counsel                LEGEC Legal
Daria Goldstein          Counsel                       LEGEC Legal
Elena Kastlerova         Transport Specialist          ECSIE Transport
Elzbieta Siemenska       Procurement Specialist        ECSPS Procurement
Iwona Warzecha           Senior Financial Management   ECSPS Financial
                         Specialist                          Management
Marie Laygo              Program Assistant             ECSSD Team Support

Supervision/ICR
Michel Audigė            Lead Transport Specialist     ECSSD     Team Leader
Anca Dumitrescu          Transport Specialist          ECSSD     Team Leader
Radoslaw Czapski         Operations Officer            ECSIE     Team Leader
Claudia Pardinas-Ocana   Senior Counsel                LEGEC     Legal
Daria Goldstein          Counsel                       LEGEC     Legal
Iwona Warzecha           Sr. Financial Management      ECSPS     Financial
                         Specialist                              Management
Karina Mostipan          Sr. Procurement Specialist    ECSPS     Procurement
Magdalena Wasik          Program Assistant             ECCU7     Team Support
Malgorzata Michnowska    Program Assistant             ECCU7     Team Support
Marcin Jan Sasin         Economist                     ECSPE     Economic
                                                                 Analysis
Marie Laygo              Program Assistant               ECSIE   Team Support
Piotr Krzyzanowski       Senior Environmental Specialist ECSSD   Safeguards
Robert Kietlinski        Senior Operations Officer       ECSIE   Operations
ANNEX A                                42


Zoe Kolovou              Senior Counsel                 LEGEC Legal
Ross Pavis               Operations Officer             ECSSD ICR Team Leader
Graham Smith             Consultant                     ECSSD ICR Author


Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency: Borrower/Executing Agency: Ministry of Finance,
Republic of Poland/General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways (GDDKiA)
Follow-on Operations
Operation                              Loan no.    Amount        Board date
                                                   (US$ million)
Third Road Maintenance and             IBRD-       180.20        June 6, 2006
Rehabilitation Project                 73840
                                           43                                        ANNEX A


THIRD ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 73840-POL )

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                    Appraisal          Actual or           Actual as % of
                                    estimate           current estimate    appraisal estimate
Total project costs                 376.20                  453.39         120.52
Loan amount                            180.20                195.45        108.46
Co-financing                           166.00                202.77        122.15
Cancellation                           -                      2.67         -


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                           FY07         FY08                 FY09          FY10           FY11
Appraisal estimate           144.00           155.00         164.00       172.00         180.20
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)                151.80           153.80         179.80       186.70         190.90
Actual as % of appraisal      105               99            110              109        106
                                    Date of final disbursement:

Project Dates
                                                 Original                    Actual
Appraisal                                            -                     03/08/2006
Board approval                                  06/06/2006                 06/06/2006
Signing                                         06/23/2006                 06/23/2006
Effectiveness                                   05/07/2006                 07/05/2006
Closing date                                    09/15/2011                 09/15/2011

Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle        No. of staff weeks              US Dollar (including travel
                                                                and consultant costs)
Lending
FY06                                  33.52                               119.81
FY07                                    -                                 134.94
                     Total            33.52                               254.75
Supervision/ICR
FY07                                  28.53                               79.35
FY08                                  23.28                               98.22
ANNEX A                                         44


FY09                                  23.23                             92.03
FY10                                  26.57                             92.27
FY11                                  47.91                            109.93
FY12                                  13.83                             67.60
                   Total              163.35                           539.40


Task Team members

                                                                   Responsibility/
Names                      Title                           Unit
                                                                   Specialty
Lending
Michel Audige              Sector Manager, Transport ECSS5 Program Team Leader
Radoslaw Czapski           Sr. Infrastructure Specialist ECSS5 Transport and
                                                               Operational Support
Anea Cristina Dumitrescu   Sr. Transport Spec.           AFTTR TTL for Preparation
Daria Goldstein            Sr. Counsel                   EEGAF Lawyer
Marie Antoinette Laygo     Program Assistant             ECSSD Team Assistant
Barbara Letachowicz        Operations Officer            ECSS3 Environment and
                                                               Safeguards
Karina Mostipan            Sr. Procurement Specialist ECS02 Social Safeguards
                                                               Procurement
Jan Pakulski               Sr. Social Development & ECSS4 Social Safeguards
                           Civil
Iwona Warzecha             Sr. Financial Management        ECS03 Financial Management
                           Specialist
Supervision/ICR
Michel Audige              Sector Manager, Transport       SASDT   Program TL
Radoslaw Czapski           Sr. Infrastructure Specialist   ECSS5   TTL May 2008
Andreas Schliessler        Lead Transport Spec.            ECSS5   TTL 2006-May 2008
Jaroslaw Giemza            Consultant                      ECSS5   Road Safety Expert
Galina S. Kuznetsova       Sr. Financial management        ECS03   Financial Management
                           Specialist
Marie Antoinette Laygo     Program Assistant               ECSSD Team Assistant
Barbara Letachowicz        Operations Officer              ECSS3 Environment and
                                                                 Safeguards
Malgorzata Michnowska      Program Assistant               ECCPL Local Team Assistant
Karina Mostipan            Sr. Procurement Specialist      ECS02 Procurement Audit
Jan Pakulski               Sr. Social Development &        ECSS4 Social Safeguards and
                           Civil                                 Communications Expert
Ireneusz M. Smolewski      Senior Procurement              ECS02
                                                                 Procurement
                           Specialist
                                  45                              ANNEX A


Antti P. Talvitie    Consultant                 MNSTR Road Sector Specialist
Iwona Warzecha       Sr. Financial Management   ECS03 Financial Management
                     Specialist
Barbara Ziolkowska   Procurement Analust        ECS02 Procurement
Coral Bird           Program Assistant          ECSS5 Team Assistant
 ANNEX B                                                        46



Annex B. National Roads Expenditures, Financing, Outputs and Condition 2003-
2010
Calendar Year                                                2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010    2011
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Projects I, II & III
Implementation Periods:
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project                           X       X       X       X       X
Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project                            X       X       X       X       X
Third Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project                                     X       X       X       X       X       X

National Road Maintenance & Rehab Expenditure (m PLN):               1776*   1744*   1615+   2608+   2290+   3053+   1521+

WB Roads II Project (m PLN)                                           62      19
WB Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (m PLN)               399      2
WB Second Project (m PLN)                                                    383
WB Third Project (m PLN)                                                             454              55                     14
EIB Loans (m PLN)                                                            157     547
National Roads Treated under WB Funding (km)**                       917     749     1053            ~40                     ~10
National Roads Network Condition (% Good)++                  37.0% 45.5% 48.9% 53.2% 54.9% 53.6% 59.6% 59.1% 58.7%
* Third Project Appraisal Document
+ Transport  Policy Note 2011, World Bank
** Implementation Completion Reports of the three projects
++ GDDKiA Dept of Studies (HDM Unit)
                                                                                          47               ANNEX C



Annex C. Trends in Road Traffic Fatalities in EU Countries 2001-2011




Source: Country Report on Poland Road Safety Management Capacity Review Report Number 7819-PL, June 2013
ANNEX D                                             48


Annex D. Use of HDM-4 under Budget Constraints
The national road network in Poland comprises 580 km of motorways and 13,600 km of
national roads. In addition there are about 190,000 km of secondary and local roads. The
Central Roads Agency GDDKiA administers the motorways and national roads. At the time
of Poland’s accession to the European Union (May 2004) the road network was much less
extensive than the average for the EU-15 countries: excluding local roads, the road density,
in km per 100 sq km, was 43 km in the EU-15 countries versus 12 km in Poland. The
network was also in poor shape, with about 30 percent (or 4000 km) of the national roads in
poor condition and requiring rehabilitation. Furthermore, budgetary constraints affected
maintenance, and could cause the network to deteriorate rapidly. Increasing trans- European
truck traffic which has higher axle loads, could also cause extensive damage.

The project financed rehabilitation of 1103 km of national roads at a cost of $438 million (at
3.45 PLN/USD), which is an average cost of $400,000 per km. At this unit cost per km
clearing the backlog of national roads in poor condition would cost about $1.6 billion. Unit
costs for different types of rehabilitation of such roads in Poland range between $200,000 per
km for an overlay to $610,000 per km for full reconstruction. The program financed by the
project is shown to the left in the Table below. In choosing the type of rehabilitation,
alternatives that could have reduced the initial cost were not evaluated. An illustrative
“budget constrained” strategy with lower initial costs, is shown in the Table on the right.
While the latter may entail an increase in vehicle operating costs and shorter pavement life, it
produces a 40 percent saving in the up-front rehabilitation cost. Such an approach stretches
available resources in order to restore the network quickly, thereby slowing or halting further
deterioration of the network.

Project Rehabilitation Costs*                            Costs Reduced Under Budget Constraint
Road Works Type           Avg $/km   Length   Cost       Road Works Type         Avg $/km    Length   Cost
                          (000)      ( %)     ($m)                               (000)       ( %)     ($m)
Perdc Maint 30-50 mm      135        12       25         Perdc Maint 30-50 mm    135         12       25
Strengthng 80/270 mm      200-470    61       240        Strengthng 80-100 mm    200-250     84       208
Full Reconstruction       610        24       144        Full Reconstruction     610         0
Widening to 7m            810        4        30         Widening to 7m          810         4        30
Total Cost                           100      439        Total Cost                          100      263


The analyses required to identify and evaluate such alternatives is possible using the Bank’s
HDM-4 model. In the case of Poland, HDM 4 was only used to assess Economic Rates of
Return (ERR) for a specified rehabilitation option, as required under the loan agreement.
There was no least-cost optimization using budget constraints. The ERRs determined are in
the table below, and are generally well above what is required. But they give no indication
of the large cost savings possible in the initial cost if a slight increase in the lifecycle cost is
accepted.
                                             49                                       ANNEX D


This analysis shows that focusing on just the ERR misses an important consideration –
reducing investment cost is especially important when budgets are constrained as in the case
of Poland as this could affect the sustainability of the overall rehabilitation program.

The large discontinuity that typically exists in the unit costs of a full reconstruction versus a
thick overlay (80 - 100 mm) makes it important that the HDM 4 analysis globally assesses
both the ERRs and viable lower cost solutions to optimize the overall rehabilitation program.

Road Works Type                                Avg $/km          Average annual         Average
                                                                daily traffic (vpd)
                                                   (000)                               ERR (%)
Thin Overlay 30-50 mm                              135                7229                43
Strengthng 80/270 mm                              200-470            10,056               38
Full Reconstruction                                610                9,752               19
Widening to 7m                                     810                6,966               28
                                        50                                  ANNEX E


Annex E. List of Persons Met
     Government

  1. Mr. Jarosław Waszkiewicz, Roads and Motorways Department, Ministry of
     Infrastructure

  2. Mr. Rafał Wójcik, Roads and Motorways Department, Ministry of Infrastructure

  3. Mr. Michał Perliński, Roads and Motorways Department, Ministry of Infrastructure

  4. Mr. Tomasz Michalski – Director, Transport Policy Department, Ministry of
     Infrastructure

     Implementing Agencies

  5. Ms. Katarzyna Turska - Director, Paulina Karbowy - Project Coordinator, National
     Road Safety Council

  6. Mr. Andrzej Maciejewski – Director, Road Maintenance Department, GDDKiA

  7. Ms. Joanna Nurkiewicz - Deputy General Director, Road Maintenance Department,
     GDDKiA

  8. Ms. Katarzyna Gnyp - Chief Accountant, GDDKiA

  9. Mr. P.Skociński - Director, GDDKiA

  10. Ms. Urszula Nelken – Spokesperson, GDDKiA

  11. Ms. Anna Bołtryk - PR Team Member, GDDKiA

  12. Mr. Marek Rolla - Director, Department of Studies GDDKiA

  13. Mr. Gronkiewicz, Gubała, Byczewski, Warsaw Branch, GDDKiA

     Financiers

  14. Robert Kietliński - Transport Sector Engineer, European Investment Bank

  15. Messrs. Radek Czapski, Senior Infrastructure Specialist, World Bank

  16. Mr. Jarek Giemza, Consultant, World Bank

  17. Mr. Xavier Devictor, Country Manager for Poland, World Bank
