.-                                  96~~1 I-
_  f ,_. fOgO0  Bb,    990t
a~~~ ~~~          C08Pvvt0
be5 \9
oi~~~'c'vs



CURREENY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   -      Philippine Peso (P)
Yea               Exchange Rat-e
US$1.00         -      1979 (appraisal)   7.38
1980                7.51
1981                7.87
1982                8.38
1983               14.00
1984               18.00
1985               2G.00
1986-88            20.50
1989 (completion) 21.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 ha   2.47 acres
1 km - 0.62 miles
1 kg - 2.2 pounds
Tons are metric tons of 1,000 kg (2,204 pounds)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BAI                Bureau of Animal Industry
BFD                Bureau of Forest Development
BSWB               Bureau of Soil and Water Management
DA                 Department of Agriculture
DENR               Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DBM                Department of Budget Management
FAO/CP             FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
FMB                Forest Management Bureau
GOP                Government of the Philippines
IFPFPPP            Integrated Fire Protection and Fire Prevention Pilot Project
IFPPP              Integrated Forest Protection Pilot Project
LOI                Letter of Instruction
MNR                Ministry of Natural Resources
MRMPP              Magat Range Management Pilot Project
MSAFP              Magat Smallholder Agro-Forest:y Pilot Project
MWFS               Magat Watershed Feasibility Study
NEDA               National Economic Development Authority
NIA                National Irrigation Administration
NPC                National Power Corporation
PCR                Project Completion Reporc
PPAR               Project Performance Audit Report
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
TCA                Treasury Cheque Accounts
WMECP              Water Management and Erosion Control Project



FOR OFFICIAL UE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. DC. 20433
U.S.A.
Odfico CA Gooeto"
Op.eatA.o Evalwtbnn
September 19, 1991
MEORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Philippines Watershed
Management and Erosion Control Prolect (Loan 1890-PH)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Philippines Watershed Management and Erosion Control Project
(Loan 1890-PH)" prepared by the FAO/CP with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authonizdtion.



Foa OFmICL U  ONLIV
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
WATERSHED MANAGEMENT AND EROSION CONTROL PROJECT
(LOAN 1890-PH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaUe No
Preface ..                                                                     i
Eveluation Surary  .                                                         ili
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                                1 . .
1.  Project Identity                                                   1
2.  Background                                                        .1
3. Project Objectives and Description.                                 2
4. Project Design and Organization.                                    3
5. Project Implementation.                                             6
6. Project Results .8
7. Project Sustainability .12
8. Bank Performance .13
9. Borrower Performance .13
10. Project Relationships .14
11. Consultancy Services .14
12. Project Documentation and Data .14
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW PROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .1S
1. Project Objectives and Design.                                     15
2. Project Implementation .16
3. Project Impact .17
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             18
1. Related World Bank Loans   .                 .8
2. Project Timetable    ..19
3. Loan Disbursements   ..20
4. Project Implementation   ..21
5. Project Cost and Financing   .                 .24
A. Project Costs .24
B. Project Financing.                                            25
6. Project Results   ..26
A. Direct Benefits .26
B. Economic Impact .26
C. Studies .27
7. Status of Covenants   ..28
8. Use of Bank Resources .29
A. Staff Inputs .29
B. Missions .29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
Of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Annex 1:  Area of Plantation Planted and Are& Damaged by
Fire in the Pantabangan and Magat Watersheds        30
Tables
1.  Pantabangan - Area Established, Excluded
and Net Area  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  31
2.  Magat - Area Established, Burned and Net
Area .32
3.  Fire Incidents and Area Afffected .33
Chart
1.  Fire Incidents and Area Affected .34



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
WATERSHED MANAGEMENT AND EROSION CONTROL PROJECT
(LOAN 1890-PH)
Preface
1.        This  is  the  Project  Completion  Report  (PCR)  of  the  Watershed
Management and Erosion Control Project in the Philippines, for which Loan 1890-PH
in the amount of US$38 million was approved in August 1980.   The project
completion date was extended by two years and the loan closing date by a further
45 days to mid-August 1989. At Government's request, US$2.4 million of the loan
was cancelled in September 1987 and at loan closing there was an undisbursed
balance of US$2.77 million, which was also cancelled.
2.        Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared with the assistance of an
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) mission which visited the Philippines
in March 1991. They are based on a review of the relevant documents, including
the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, supervision mission reports, a
draft Project Completion Report prepared by the National Irrigation Authority
(NIA), annual project reports and consultants' reports, and correspondence
between the Government and the World Bank. The mission also had discussions with
the Government and World Bank staff familiar with the project and collected data
during a six-day field visit to the project sites in Central Luzon. Part II of
the PCR was prepared by NIA on behalf of the Borrower. The Bank wishes to thank
the management and staff of NIA and other government agencies involved with the
project, and the FAO-CP, for their cooperation in preparing this PCR.



A
oto~-
4~~4
"I#  . 04,
3 t 'P
.~-
-6? -11  



- iv -
access road construction, and having scattered planting sites. The timing of the
studies and pilot project components was even more optimistic, with planning and
implementation of the pilot projects as well as conclusions on their results and
incorporation of these into the Magat watershed feasibility study, all to be
completed over a three-year period. In the event, formal designation of BFD to
be responsible for the smallholder agro-forestry pilot project and the Bureau of
Animal Industry (BAI) to takce charge of the range management pilot project was
made only in mid-1982.  The pilot projects were included in the project only
during the writing of the Staff Appraisal Report, and how they were to be planned
and implemented and their precise objectives were vague.
5.        A major difficulty for the project was caused 1by the steadily more
rigorous enforcement of legislation against felling in the project area from 1983
onwards - even where this was only as necessary thinning of plantations. This
effectively killed any hooes that the project could become financially and
economically viable. It also exposed the basic ambiguity of the whole project
concept in having the twin objectives of both preservation of the catchments and
sustainable improvement of the livelihood of the local population.
6.        Due to the slower than expected performance, the Loan closing date was
twice extended by one year to end-December 1988, and then a third time until mid-
August 1989 to accommodate late withdrawal requests. At GOP request, the Bank
cancelled US$2.4 million of the Loan in September 1987, and at Loan closing a
fur'i±er US$2.77 million undisbursed balance was also cancelled. Total project
costs at Loan closing are estimated at US$50.5 million.
Results
7.        Despite  all  the difficulties,  NIA was  reasonably  successful  in
attaining the physical targets established at appraisal, albeit over a longer
implementation period and as a result of extensive replanting. However, largely
as a result of fire damage, only about 75Z of the target and actually planted
area is considered established and adequately stocked. Estimates of yields and
production made at appraisal in retrospect appear over optimistic.  Assuming
exploitation is allowed - which under present legislation it is not - the
economic rate of return of the reforestation activities is recalculated at about
4Z compared with 182 calculated at appraisal.
8.        Both  the  forest  protection  and  smallholder  agro-forestry  pilot
projects have been useful to BFD (FMB) in adding to the agency's experience and
ability to implement forestry protection/improvement and agro-forestry projects.
To date it is not possible to claim any significant "breakthrough" as a result
of the projects, but the agency is continuing work in the area, financed from its
regular budget.   The range management pilot project did not provide any
worthwhile results, although it did help BAI's program of distribution of
improved breeding stock. The Magat Watershed Feasibility Study has provided the
basis of an 'Indicative Plan for the Protection and Development of the Magat
Watershed".   Because of land tenure problems and the lack of appropriate
legislation, it was not able to provide the basis for a second phase project.



v
Sustainability
9.        Although the project design was innovative, suggesting a sharing of
benefits with the local population, actual implementation was by using paid
labour rather than individuals planting up land under some form of tenancy
arrangement.  The existing forestry laws prohibiting any extraction activities
in the catchments effectively prevent   sharing of benefits with the local
communities. Any benefit to the local people has therefore been as wage labour
and even this benefit to them from the project has ceased. The project has not
therefore been able to win the wholehearted support of the local communities, and
some of the labour, in order to survive, have returned to illegal felling of
trees and slash and burn upland farming. Fire continues to be a considerable
hazard for the plantations. Government budget allocations appear insufficient
to provide adequate staff to contain fire damage to acceptable levels. There is,
therefore, a significant risk that unless greater priority is given to protection
of the plantations, and particularly for fire prevention and control, the
investments already made may be lost.
Other Findings and Lessons Learned
10.       Given the controversial nature of watershed management projects at the
time the project was appraised, both GOP and WB showed considerable foresight and
courage in undertaking the project in the first place.  The need to rehabilitate
these deforested and poorly productive areas, to encourage their economic
development and to protect reservoirs used for providing irrigation and
electricity was,  and  remains,  an  important  priority.    The  project  also
demonstrated the technical and institutional feasibility of large scale
plantation of catchments by NIA. In retrospect a number of lessons can be drawn
from the project's experience:
-      the legal basis of the project was not sufficiently understood
at appiaisal. and in the event the legislation as it existed -
rather than it was thought to exist - effectively destroyed the
project concept. No future project should be attempted unless
the legislation in force in the particular project area wi.ll
accommodate the project activities.   Such legislation would
need to provide, inter alia, (a) for development of land for
agricultural purposes where land use criteria showed this to be
sensible, even thoagh these areas may be within critical
watersheds and (b) for providing stewardship or tenancy
agreements for farmers who were involved, as part of these
activities,  in  a  planned  tree  planting  program.         The
legislation would therefore need to provide a legal basis for
planning development in critical catchment areas on a detailed
basis, rather than blanket legislation for the catchment as a
whole;
recognizing the difficulties inherent in watershed management
projects, every effort should be made in project design to
simplify organizational aspects. Thus, only one agency should
have permanent responsibility in any one area and the necessity
for coordination between agencies should be minimized.



- vi
Inclusion of a number of agencies and the consequent need for
elaboration of coordinating mechanisms should be avoided.
Also, where possible, project design should simplify management
by having the minimum number of sites for project activities
and financial mechanisms, such as Special Accounts, to
facilitate the flow of funds and overcome problems of late
release of government budget;
project design should allow for a reasonable time frame for
project  activitiei,  to allow  the  latter  to proceed  in a
technically acceptable and efficient manner with adequate
provision for start up activities, including trials and
provision of infrastructure before the commencement of large
scale plantation or other activities. Similarly, at the end of
the project period it ie important that the areas newly planted
during the final years, which tend to be large compared with
areas planted at the start of the project, should be adequately
managed and maintained. Although this is normally considered
a government responsibility, the fact is that as soon as the
project is completed further finance becomes uncertain, calling
into question the sustainability of the watershed management
activities.   What appears to be required is support to a
program over an extended period of perhaps twenty or so years.
Isolatel financing of projects of relatively short duration, in
situations where governments lack the financial resources to
follow through after project completion, may not be in the
country's best interests;
the sustainability of any project will depend largely on the
attiW.ude  of  the  local  communities.    Assuming  that  the
legislation provides a favourable and sufficient basis (as
discussed above), the project design therefore should include
the local communities' own ideas of what should be attempted
and the manner of implementaLion.   It should also provide
significant expenditure as a priority for strong publicity,
public relations, extension and demonstration services to win
the support of local communities, involve them in project
management and discuss with them the benefits they will receive3
from the project and how these should be divided. Since thesei
benefits are likely to be in a variety of forms - agricultural,
forestry related, fisheries and tourism - this further
underlines the need for one agency for each territorial area
(as stated above) having overall responsibility for project
activities.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
WATERSHED MANAGEMENT AND EROSION CONTROL PROJECT
(LOAN 1890-PH)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name     Watershed Management and Erosion Control Project
Loan Nc.          1890-PH
RVP Unit          Asia Region
Country           Philippines
Sector           Agriculture
Sub-sector        Forestry
2. Background
2.1         Of the 30 million ha land area of the Philippines, about 6.6 million
ha, or 22Z, are denuded open grasslands.   Intensification of agriculture and
industrialization require dam construction for increased irrigation and
electricity  generation.    Two multipurpose  dams  were  constructed,  one  in
Pantabangan with a reservoir of about 8,000 ha in a catchment of about 83,000 ha,
and one in Magat with a reservoir area of about 4,000 and a catchment of about
412,000 ha. To sustain the service life of these dams, the watersheds needed
rehabilitation and adequate management.
2.2         In 1976, financed by Loan 1227-PH for the Chico River Irrigation
Project, the National Irrigation Administration (NIA) conducted a full Watershed
Management feasibility study of the Pantabangan and Magat watersheds. This became
the basis of the World Bank (WB) appraisal, and in August 1980 for approval of
a US$38 million loan covering about 50Z of the total project costs, estimated at
US$75 million. The balance of US$37 million was to be provided by Government.
2.3         Information given on population in the SAR refers to 25,370 people
or about 4,335 households in Pantabangan in 1975 with an annual growth rate
between 1975 and 1979 of 4.1Z compared to a national growth rate of 2.8Z. A NIA
survey in 1979 showed that about 44Z of households were dependent on farming and
fishing, 35Z were in government employment, mainly NIA and BFD reforestation
programs and the balance were occupied in seasonal work, cottage and service
industries. The population of the Magat given in the SAR was 293,000 people or



2
about 50,000 households in 1975 with an annual growth rate over the previous ten
years of 2.2Z.
3. ProJect Obiectives and Description
3.1         The project had the twin objectives of preserving the catchment areas
and at the same time providing for an improved livelihood for the local
population, in a financially and economically viable manner. The main components
were as follows:
3.2         Reforestation - establishment of plantations covering about 24,600
ha in the Pantabangan and 7,500 ha in the Magat watershed, including construction
and operation of nurseries to produte up to 8.5 million seedlings annually. A
sub-component was also included for conversion of part of the wood production to
charcoal involving the construction of 21 charcoal centres, each of nine, 50 ma
capacity ovens.
3.3         Forest Road Construction and Fire Protection - construction and
maintenance of about 95 km of primary forest roads and 250 km of secondary roads
in Pantabangan and about 40 km of primary and 25 km of secondary roads in Magat.
For this purpose finance was provided for a range of road construction equipment,
ir.cluding three 140 hp crawler tractors, five 90 hp crawler tractors, seven 125
hp motorcycles, three front-end loaders, ten rollers, two water trucks, 30 dump
trucks, two hydraulic crawler backhoes, four fuel tankers and other associated
road making and land clearing equipment.   For road construction and general
transport needs prov-.ion was made for the purchase of 21 six-ton trucks, 11 75
hp tractors, two station wagons, 106 pick-ups, 86 jeeps, six motorboats, 18 100
cc motorcycles and 4 15-20 seater buses. Investments in fire protection included
construction of fire stations, look-out towers and clearing of fire lines.
Equipment provided iLcluded six fire trucks and communication equipment.
3.4         Administrative and Support Facilities.   Provision was made for
construction of an administrative office, a workshop/motor pool, 25 detached
staff quarters, 14 duplex staff quarters, three 150 bed staff dormitories and a
clinic at Pantabangan and temporary buildings at Magat.   Financing was also
provided for the purchase of two ambulances, office equipment and for minor
investments in visual aid equipment.
3.5         Magat Feasibility Study and Pilot Programs. Because of its size,
variety of environments and large population,  the Magat watershed presents
problems of a far more complex nature than Pantabangan. The project therefore
financed a Magat Watershed Feasibility Study (MWFS) by consultants to provide a
plan for the development of selected critical watersheds in the catchment. As
part of the study, the project provided for a hydrology and sediment monitoring
program to identify the critical sub-watersheds for pr-ority treatment.
3.6         The Magat area supported considerable cattle herds and to provide
better information on possible treatments to reduce the erosion associated with
cattle, particularly burning of grassland, the p-oject included financing for a
Magat Range Management Pilot Project. The results of this were intended to be
incorporated into the MWFS (para. 3.5 above). The pilot project was to include
fodder species trials, grazing trials on improved and natural grazing, and



-3-
measurements of erosion from trial plots representing the different management
systems.
3.7         The project also provided for a Magat Smallholder Agro-Forestry Pilot
Project.   This was to introduce various forms of appropriate technology for
upland areas with emphasis on production and soil and water conservation. The
results of these activities were also intended to be incorporated into the MWFS.
3.8         The MWFS and the two associated pilot projects were all expected to
be implemented over a three-year period from early 1981 to the end of 1983.
3.9         Forest Protection Pilot Component.   Provision was made for the
detailed planning and implementation over a three-year period of a pilot
operation in which forest occupancy (kaingin) management, forest guarding, forest
fire control and watershed rehabilitation would be undertaken in an integrated
manner. The component was to be located in two trial areas, one in the Magat
watershed and the other at Dona Remedios Trinidad in Bulacan province. As
appraised activities would include settling 300 forest occupant families,
improving their farms and providing social services;  guarding 127,000 ha of
forest land; fire control covering 27,000 ha; replanting of 800 ha of denuded,
erodible land and construction of soil erosion control structures in critical
locations; construction and maintenance of 20 km of roads and 220 km of access
trails; provision of buildings, vehicles and equipment; and consultancy services
to plan and implement the component and to develop and install an intensive
monitoring and evaluation system for the duration of implementation. Provision
was also made for consultant assistance in the third year of the project to
review the collective experience of the component and, if this was successful,
to prepare larger follow-up projects of a similar nature.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1          The project feasibility study (para. 2.2) identified the major
watershed problems which needed to be addressed, including deforestation, soil
erosion and sedimentation, unmanaged pasture and grazing, uncontrolled upland
farming,  deteriorating  land productivity,  and  illegal  logging.    But  the
feasibility study and the project appraisal considered various aspects, including
technical  feasibility,  environmental  desirability,  social  acceptability,
financial and economic viability and institutional development.
4.2         The scheduling of project activities, as set out in the WB Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR), proved to be over-optimistic. Even the SAR recognized
that the 'tight timetables would require ..... considerable managerial capability
......" (SAR para.4.03).  NIA had established about 1,270 ha of plantations pre-
project, over the period 1977-79.  The SAR suggested that a further 1,600 ha
would be completed in 1980 - the year the project started (loan effectiveness
October 1980) and this would increase to about 3,500 ha in each subsequent year.
In the Magat watershed the area planted from 1981 onwards was expected to be
around 1,500 ha annually. In attempting to meet these targets mistakes were made
in mismatching sites and species - there was no provision for trial plots to
determine species/site selection, and at least until 1982 plantations were being
planted befire access roads had been constructed. The project design also made



-4-
planting and subsequent protection more difficult by having a number of scattered
plantation sites (five sectors in Pantabangan, each with several sites). Project
yield estimates at appraisal were also over optimistic.
4.3         The project design was also ambiguous about the objectives.  The SAR
states (para. 7.01) that 'the project would establish an 3conomically viable and
technically sound system for preserving and enhancing the productive capacity of
the catchment and for providing a permanent and improved livelihood for the local
population".   There were therefore to be twin objectives:  (a) prevention of
erosion in the catchment leading to  sedimentation of the reservoirs; and (b)
production of wood, leafmeal, fruit, nuts and charcoal, to improve family incomes
in a financially and economically viable manner.   In the event, because of
increasing enforcement of legislation preventing extraction from 1983 onwards
(para.5.4), only the first objective became realizable during the life of the
project. However, attainment of the second objective had a considerable effect
on project design in the inclusion of targets for planting 3,000 ha of Ipil-ipil
(Leucena leucocephala), 2,900 ha of mango (Mangifera indica) and 4,500 ha of
cashew (Anacardium occidentale) as part of the plantations.
4.4         Within the project design, one of the most crucial factors was the
shortness of the implementation period, even when extended to eight years. This
did not allow adequate time for maintenance of plantations after planting to
ensure that they were truly established and protected from fire and illegal
felling (para. 8.1).  In retrospect, the three-year period given to the range
management, agro-forestry and forest protection pilot projects to be planned,
implemented and to come to conclusions on what should be the practices
recommended for application on a wider scale, appears to have been extremely
optimistic, given the complex and resistant nature of the problems they were to
address.   Their inclusion also complicated overall project organization and
management.
4.5         The idea of the forest protection, range management and agro-forestry
pilot projects originated from the World Bank (Decision Memorandum 18/9/1979) and
the concept was not fully shared or understood by the agencies responsible for
implementation (para. 4.10 below). Also, since they accounted for only about 52
of project cost they seem, naturally, to have been never accorded verv high
priority by the agencies responsible for their implementation.
4.6         Despite  these negative  aspects of project design,  the central
objective cf rehabilitation of critical watersheds was well chosen and the
project was in advance of its time in addressing environmental issues.   The
project was the first Bank effort at watershed management in the Philippines and
was a major attempt to deal systematically with the problems of the catchments
of the country's two largest and most important multipurpose dams. An innova:ive
feature of the project was the provision of incentives for the local people
through wage employment and eventually sharing in benefits, to give them an
interest in the project and to make them partners in its success.



4.7         The Government of the Philippines and the Bank agreed that the
National Irrigation Administration (NIA) should be the main implementing agency.
The decision was based on the strength of NIA as an organization;    its
familiarity with implementing Bank-financed projects; its interest in protecting
the reservoirs and dams under its control; and NIA's experience and expertise
in nursery  and forestry  operations.    This  decision was  formalized by a
Presidential Letter of Instruction (LOI) No. 1002 of March 20, 1980, which gave
NIA authority to manage, protect and rehabilitate the areas of the Pantabangan
and Magat watersheds included in the project. The LOI also gave NIA authority
to harvest timber and agro-forestry products in the project areas.
4.8         Responsibility for the forest protection pilot project was vested in
the Bureau of Forest Development (BFD now the Forest Management Bureau, FMB).
The National Economic Development Authority (NEDA) was given responsibility for
coordinating the preparation of the Magat Watershed Feasibility Study and the
implementation of the range management and smallholder agro-forestry pilot
projects.   Under NEDA's  supervision the relevant Government agencies  and
ministries were to prepare proposals to deal with the problems of the watershed.
NEDA would also designate the appropriate agencies to prepare the plans and to
implement the two pilot projects. Formal designation of the BFD to implement the
smallholder agro-forestry pilot project and for the Bureau of Animal Industry
(BAI) to be responsible for the range management pilot project was only made in
mid 1982.
4.9         As a basis for cooperation between NIA and BFD, the two agencies
signed a memorandum of understanding defining the respective roles of the two
agencies, and in particular their land area coverage in the two watersheds.
within the framework of the LOI at the end of 1980. Government also established
a Watershed Development Programme Steering Committee, chaired by NEDA until 1989
and subsequently by DENR and including representatives from the Department of
Budget Management (DBM), the Department of the Environment and Natural Resources
(DENR), NIA, BFD, BAI and the Bureau of Soil and Water Management (BSWB) of the
Department of Agriculture  (DA).   The Steering Committee was assisted by a
Technical Committee with the same membership and was serviced by a secretariat.
4.10        These arrangements seem to have worked reasonably well. Although all
the agencies involved mentioned difficulties in coordination, there is no
evidence that it worked any worse than might have been expected and there was no
absolute breakdown in coordination among the agencies.   NIA as the lead
implementing agency had responsibility for the bulk of the project activities
and, in this respect, both BED and BAI were junior partners.  A part of the
argument for the inclusion of BFD and BAI was that it would help them develop as
institutions. However, the investments in their particular components were small
and the problems they we-e to address were known to be difficult yet poorly
understood.   Not only was their inclusion of dubious benefit to them as
institutions, but since these were to be pilot activities there was an inevitable
flexibility amounting to vagueness as to how they should set about their task or
what they were expected to accomplish (para. 4.5). In retrospect it would have
been helpful if, for example, technical assistance from Australia had been
funded or organized by the project in support of the range management pilot
project.



-6-
4.11        Organization of field staff was generally satisfactory.  NIA, under
the responsibility of the Assistant Administrator, appointed a Project Manager
and two Resident Managers, one for Pantabangan and one for Magat. BFD, under the
responsibility of the Regional Executive Director, appointed two Project Managers
for the IntegraLed Forest Protection Pilot Project (IFPPP), one for Magat and the
other for Bulacan and a third Project Manager for the Magat Smallholder Agro-
Forestry Pilot Project. BAI, under the responsibility of the Regional Director,
appointed a Project Leader.
4.12        Up to 1986 all NIA contractual operations, issuance of invitations
to tender, evaluation and approval were handled centrally.  This led to long
delays so that unit rates had increased over the period resulting either in poor
contractor performance or the need to re-tender. After 1986 responsibility was
given to the Project Manager, which resulted in much faster tender processing.
Contractual matters, including evaluation and approval of tenders for BFD, was
undertaken by the District Office of BFD and for BAI remained a central office
responsibility. In 1982 the then Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR) established
a Foreign Assisted Project Management Office under an Assistant Secretary MNR to
help the departments including BFD in implementing their projects and overcoming
problems in the flow of funds.  BFD also gave the pilot projects a degree of
delegation of authority and provision for Treasury Cheque Accounts (TCA) in March
1984. Despite these initiatives, bureaucratic delays and the absolute shortage
of domestic funds persisted.
4.13        NIA established a Community Affairs and Human Resources Development
Division, reporting to the Project Manager.  This was supported by the Public
Affairs and Information staff of the NIA Central Office and by forming
coordinating committees including the managers of the municipalities and the
heads of the government agencies in the watershed areas. The project financed
a slide projector and flip charts and the Division produced brochures and a
newsletter.   It also borrowed a video camera and player for the NIA Central
Office. Undoubtedly one major problem of the Division was the fact that after
1983 they could say virtually nothing to farmers about benefits (para.5.4).
Furthermore, the Division seems to have been inadequately equipped by the project
and not accorded adequate priority in its important task of winning the
wholehearted support of the local communities.
5. Proiect Implementation
5.1         Following loan effectiveness on October 30, 1980, the project got off
to a good start.   NIA rapidly mobilized staff, nurseries were expanded to
increase seedling production and a programme of tree planting was initiated.
However, even in the first year the implementing agencies suffered from a
shortage and late release of funds as a result of government's overall budgetary
difficulties and bureaucratic delays.   These problems were to continue to
adversely affect the performance of all the project components during the entire
implementation period. In 1981 the BFD project funds were only released in the
closing weeks of the year. These difficulties were mitigated, to some extent,
by a WB decision in August 1983, following a GOP request for a Special Action
Programme for certain projects (including the Watershed Management and Erosion
Control Project (WMECP))  in the irrigation sector.   This amended the loan



-7-
agreement to increase the proportion of expenditures financed by the loan (Part
III, Section 5 (b)), and added an annex to the loan agreement setting up a
Special Account with an initial deposit of US$1.3 million to be used as a
revolving fund so as to overcome problems of late releases, or temporary
inadequacy of government budget.   Initially only useable by NIA, access to the
Special Account was extended to BFD and BAI only at the end of 1985.
5.2         Despite  these measures,  difficulties  still persisted  regarding
procurement of vehicles and equipment,  initially because of lack of their
approval by the Office of the President and, when clearance was finally obtained,
through difficulties in procurement.  The main items of road building equipment
for both Pantabangan and Magat were procured under ICB. The equipment ordered
in January 1982 arrived in March 1983 and due to its unsuitability for the
conditions was all out of commission in 1985 (para. 9.2).    As a result the
project had to rely on equipment borrowed from other agencies or on contract
work, so that road construction proceeded more slowly than planned.
5.3         As  well  as  sharing  in  the  national  economic  and  political
difficulties of the period 1983-1986 and insurgency in parts of the project area
which still continues, the project also suffered setbacKs from natural causes,
including a prolonged drought in 1983, typhoon Nitang in 1984, severe infestation
of jumping lice (Psyllid) on Ipil-ipil (Leucaena leucocephala) from 1985 onwards
and anthracnose disease affecting mangoes and cashewnut plantings. As well as
these difficulties the reforestation under NIA suffered recurrent problems in
procuring seeds, fire (para. 6.2 and Annex 1), poor planting sites, weed problems
and continued incidence during the life of the project of illegal logging,
charcoal production, slash and burn agriculture, hunting and ranching.   The
Integrated Fire Protection and Fire Prevention Pilot Project (IFFPPP) suffered
from continued exploitation of the area by settlers and nearby occupants from
fire and from having a very fragmented work plan - in the Aretao area the pilot
project attempted to plant, as only a part of the component, 840 ha of green
belts divided between 25 dispersed sites. The Magat Smallholder Agro-Forestry
Pilot Project (MSAFP) experienced difficulty from communal differences and
rivalries and from poor accessibility due to poor road construction and
maintenance.   The Magat Range Management Pilot Project (MRMPP) suffered from
fire, late delivery of stock and lack of replacement of dead animals. The Magat
Watershed Feasibility Study (MWFS) encountered difficulties arising from the
uncertain land tenure position of the indigenous and settler populations in the
Magat watershed and the lack of any useful results arising from the MSAPP and
MRMPP.
5.4         A fundamental change in the whole concept of the project was created
by a steadily more stringent enforcement of forestry laws by DENR from 1983
onwards.   Despite LOI 1002  (para.  4.7)  the Revised Forestry Code of the
Philippines (Presidential Declaration No. 705 of 1977) specifically prohibits all
timber felling and extraction in critical watersheds. The Magat watershed by
Proclamation No. 573 of June 1969 was classified as a "permanent forest reserve"
and by LOI 917 of August 1979 was further declared "a wilderness area" which
"shall not be subject of exploitation of whatever nature".   The principle of
sharing of project benefits with local communities, to which covenants in the
Loan Agreement Sections 4.05 and 4.06 applied (Part III, Section 7) was kept
alive by NIA until late 1985. However, by 1986 it had become clear that NIA, or



-8-
any other agency or individual risked prosecution if they attempted any cutting
activities, including thinning in the plantations. Partly as a result of this
and partly as a result of the Psyllid infestation on the Ipil-ipil, severely
restricting leaf meal and fuelwood/charcoal production, gross revenues were in
any case, minimal.   The size of the charcoal oven component (para. 3.2) was
severely reduced. At Pantabangan only three ovens were constructed and used in
1983 (of one, two and three ton capacity), and two portable 0.25 ton and 0.6 ton
ovens were purchased in 1984. At Magat three ovens were eventually constructed
in 1986. Both leafmeal and charcoal production were therefore small (Part III,
Section 6). Accordingly, in September 1987 the Ministry of Finance requested the
deletion of Sections 4.05 and 4.06 of the Loan Agreement, to which the Bank
acceded in March 1988. As a way of replacing the sharing of benefits with local
communities the project introduced incentive payments to the captains of
barangays in the project area of r 300 (US$10) per month plus in-kind assistance
(gravel and cement) to the local communities who cooperated in fire prevention.
5.5         The periods of implementation of the main components are detailed in
Part III, Section 4.
5.6         In April 1988, GOP requested and received the Bank's approval to use
the loan to finance remedial works to the Pentabangan and Magat dams to ensure
their safety following a consultancy study and recommendations in December 1987.
Items to be financed included civil works for protection of the groins of the
dams against erosion and slope protection, repairs to the face of the Pantabangan
main dams aned construction of additional operational and maintenance facilities;
provision o' machinery and electrical equipment, repair of existing equipment,
purchase of  spare parts  and communication  systems;    and construction of
additional facilities for the regular surveillance of dam behaviour and the
repair of existing equipment.   Implementation of the civil works component
proceeded well at Pantabangan but at Magat the continuous operation of the power
station and shortage of earthmoving and drilling equipment significantly delayed
the pace of work (para. 6.10).   Procurement of the equ-pment required was
generally unsuccessful in the short period up to project completion at end
December 1988 (para. 6.10).
6. Project Results
6.1         Reforestation.    Despite all the difficulties described in the
previous section, NIA was reasonably successful in attaining the physical targets
established at appraisal over the extended project period. The main items (Part
III, Section 4) were as follows:



-9-
RadleeWtr     ~ Apw.)et I                AetwoI      [   £.tsiev.e      l
.antsbangan plantation ore      24,600           24,622 */            100
(he)
! get plantation ar*a (he)       7,500            6,900 b/             91
antabangen primary roads           96              ISO                109
(km.)
antabongen secondary roads        250              213                 85
(km)
Usgat primary roads (km)           40               U                  9C
!egat secondbry roads (km)         25               56                224
Chareoal  oven (no )              1X9                o                  4
a/          In addition about 1,3J0 ha of fuelwood area wero replanted to other speclis,
about 4,900 ha replonted In the your following initial planting and about
7,400 ha replanted In area daaed by fire, drought, poor soils or peuts and
In addition about 1,S00 ha replanted in the your following initial planting.
6.2         Altnwugh NIA was energetic in achieving the targets for plantation
area, albeit over a longer than -xpected project period, the problem of fire has
been, and continues to be, a major factor. Thus, largely as a result of severe
fire damage as well as gaps caused by low survival following prolonged drought,
poor soil, mismatching of sites and species and pests and diseases and despite
about 15,000 ha of replanting, about 18,000 ha, or 73Z, of the plantation area
at Pantabangan and about 6,280 ha, or 832, at Magat are regarded as established
and fully stocked (Part III, Section 4).
6.3         Projections of yields and production included in the SAR have not
been borne out by experience to date, nor appear attainable in future. This is
partly explained by delays in implementation and partly by unforeseen pest and
disease problems, particularly Psyllid infestation of Ipil-ipil leafmeal and
charcoal plantations and anthracnose on mango and cashewnut;   poorer than
anticipated planting sites, particularly due to low pH, thin soils and the
problems of competition with weeds, notably cogon grass (Imperata cylindrica);
slower growth as a result of fire damage;  and the progressive tightening of
restrictions on extraction (para. 5.4).   However, in retrospect it appears that
even without the unforeseen problems the yield assumptions and rate of production
build up projected in the SAR were over-optimistic.   Recorded production of
leafmeal, charcoal, mangoes and cashew nuts up to end December 1988 were in each
case less than IZ of the SAR projections (Part III, Section 6).
6.4          Pilferage of mango fruits and cashew nuts is reported,  but no
assessment is available of the extent of production so lost.   The use of
insecticides, fungicides and flower induction chemicals on mangoes anticipated
in the SAR has not happened and as yet no satisfactory method for managing the
mango and cashew nut areas has yet been developed (para. 9.1).
6.5          Production projections (Part TII, Section 6) are those made by the
project staff and appear realistic. They assume further poor performance of the



- 10 -
mangoes and cashew nuts but continuing fire prevention and control to acceptable
levels. Based on these production projections and actual costs the economic rate
of return of the reforestation component in the Pantabangan and Magat watersheds
is recalculated at about 4%. As in the SAR, no attempt has been made to quantify
the benefits from reduction of erosion and sedimentation of the dam reservoirs.
If the mango and cashew nut plantations were commercially managed the rate of
return would be higher.  Conversely the risk of fire for all the plantations
appears very high. Fire incidence and damage over the period 1979 to March 1991
is detailed in  Annex 1.  Unless sufficient budget is provided to maintain
adequate fire protection crews in the area and to encourage the support of the
local population in reducing the fire hazard (e.g., through including incentive
payments to communities which have a good record in fire prevention, which might
be cheaper than maintaining fire fighting teams in the area), there is a real
danger that even the production projections assumed will not be attained and the
investments already made in plantation establishment may be lost.
6.6         Integratee. Forest Protection and Fire Prevention Pilot Project.  The
pilot project succeeded in establishing 11 nurseries which produced about 8.8
million seedlings over the period 1981-88, or about 88%, achievement of the BFD
plan.  Total area planted by project completion is estimzated at about 3,300 ha,
or 922, of the planned area.   No information is available on the area of
plantations fully stocked, but in common with the reforestation component, fire
damage has been a considerable problem and the area fully established and
adequately stocked would appear to be significantly less than the planted area.
About 12.8 km (64Z) of access roads and 279 km (94Z) of access trials were
constructed. Not all of the roads have been properly aligned or constructed.
Achievement of check dams and riprap protection was about 58Z of the planned
amount. A total of 243 families out of about 300 were issued with Certificate
of Stewardship Contracts. The pilot project also patrolled 127,000 ha for fire
suppression, forestry extension and suppression of charcoal manufacture.
Consultancy services for planning and implementing the pilot project were not
fully successful. The plan proposed a large number of scattered sites for "green
belt" development (para. 5.3) and subsequent field visits by the consultants
during implementation to resolve problems were not sufficient.
6.7         Smallholder  Agro-Forestry  Pilot  Preject.    The  pilot  project
established four nurseries which produced 2.1 million seedlings over the period
1982-88. Agro-forestry development consisted of contour terracing manually, and
plantation of hedgerow trees along the contour covering a gross area of about 450
ha, or 60X, achievement of the BFD planned target of 750 ha; reforestation of
an area of about 73 ha; establishment of a model farm of 10 ha; construction
of 22 km of roads, 34 checkdams, 5 gabion protection works, riprap protection,
and excavation of a 6.8 km irrigation canal. Out of 320 selected participants
284 were fully assisted with provision of planting and other materials and
technical support, 219 of which were issued with Certificates of Stewardship
Contracts (CSC).
6.8         Range Management Pilot Project. The pilot project established a farm
at Tapaya barangay in Bagabag municipality in Nueva Viscaya covering 212 ha of
which 91 ha was sub-divided into nine paddocks. Each of these was either sown
with local improved fodder grasses and legumes, exotic species or maintained as
natural pasture.  During the period April 1986 to March 1987 and from November



- 11 -
1986 to March 1987 104 goats were kept in the paddocks to observe the carrying
capacity of the different pasture types and the pasture/stockiuig relationships
influence on erosion.   -ach paddock wan divided into two mini basins each
provided with a concrete flume structuce t, sample erosion. However, the layout
was defective and in the short period in which measurements were made no useful
information was generated.
6.9         Magat Watershed Feasibility Studs.          The  study undertaken by
consultants in two phases produced a final report in December 1985. This was
followed by a supplementary report in 1987 incorporating amendments suggested by
WB. The final report formed the basis for an "Indicative Plan for the Protection
and Development of the Magat Watershed". As part of the component hydrographic
and bathymetric surveys were conducted with the participation of foreign
consultants to estimate the sediment yield of various tributary streams and
sedimentation of the reservoir itself.
6.10        Dam Safety Remedial Works.  At Pantabangan civil works achievement
was about 99Z of planned, at Magat only 28% due to several factors (para. 5.6).
Procurement of machinery and electrical equipment was only about 32Z of the
planned amount and dam behaviour monitoring facilities about 48Z of the plan.
6.11        Project Impact.    The main project component, reforestation, has
successfully demonstrated the technical and institutional feasibility of large
scale plantation of catchments by NIA. However, project design only allowed for
involvement of the local population as paid labour - an annual average over the
project period of 2,100 at Pantabangan and 760 at Magat, as well as a total of
140 managerial/supervisory and technical/clerical staff. While this employment
was very welcome during the project period and created some degree of local
interest and commitment to the project, the laying-off of staff at the end of the
project antagonized the local population. This, together with the etfect of the
legislation prohibiting any felling in the project areas, meant that a proportion
of the unemployed laborers, in order to survive, have again taken up illegal
felling and upland farming. While the project plantations are in many areas well
grown and have achieved their objectives there must be serious concern for the
sustainability of present gains due to the problem of fire and illegal felling,
and doubts as to the replicability of the concept to other areas unless there is
greater involvement of the local population and a sharing of benefits with them.
6.12        Both the Integrated Forest Protection and Fire Prevention Pilot
Project and the Smallholder Agro-Forestry Pilot Project have been useful to BFD
(FMB), in adding to the agency's experience and ability to implement forestry
protection/improvement and agro-forestry projects in upland areas - eg. choice
of species, matching species and sites, the desirability of concentration on
manageable areas rather than dispersion of effort over many small planting sites,
and technologies likely to be acceptable to farmers. However, the period' ,f the
pilot projects were too short and the objectives too little '. )cussed.
Consequently it is not possible to claim any 'break through" of the kind credited
to the Central Visayas Regional Project (Loan 2360-PH). Introduction of vetiver
grass (Vetiveria zizanioides)in 1989 with Bank assistance has been successful in
reducing erosion on one small site in Pantabangan and could become more
widespread in the future.



- 12 -
6.13        The Range Management Pilot Project did not have its expected impact
in providing answers to the problems of range management and erosion prevention.
Since an important part of BAI's overall strategy for livestock development is
in genetic improvement there were some unforeseen benefits in the distribution
of cattle and goats bred on the farm to neighbouring farmers.
6.14        The Magat Watershed Feasibility Study did not succeed in providing
the basis for a second stage project, due to the land tenure problems in the area
and lack of appropriate legislation. The studies were, however, helpful in
examining the problems of the watershed, suggesting solutions and providing a
basis for the indicative plan for the watershed (para. 6.9). Similarly the
hydrographic and bathymetric surveys provided valuable information on the rate
of sedimentation of the Magat reservoir, concluding that erosion was occurring
at about twice the rate assumed in design, and assuming this rate were maintained
the dam life would be reduced from 100 to only 25 years.
6.15        The completion mission did not collect any other data on erosion
rates. Studies on the sedimentation in the Pantabangan reservoir were conducted
by the National Irrigation Administration (NIA) and the National Pcwer
Corporation (NPC) in 1985 and by NIA in 1989.  The summary of the 1989 study
states that, based on sediment deposition in the reservoir, average catchment
sediment yield is estimated at about 108 tons/ha/year, compared to an initial
estimate during dam design of 20 tons/ha/year, subsequently significantly
increased for final dam design. The 1985 survey showed that only about 50Z of
deposition was in the dead storage whereas it was about 68Z of the additional
sediment between 1985 and 1989. The summary concludes that the life of the dam
or the time for the sediments to rise to the intake sill would be around 107
years, but dependent on the sediment yields of the catchment and method of
operation of the dam.   The 1985 study found that major sources of sediment
transported into the reservoir were gullies, landslides/slips and channel
degradation.
6.16        A  qualitative  judgment  based  on  the mission's  visit  to both
Pantabangan and Magat would be that about one-third of the area planted would be
practically as "erosion proof" as natural forest.  The trees are well grown,
rather too close, and there is a good ground cover. A further one-third would
be those areas which have less developed plantations or areas with cashew-nut
trees and mangroves which are well protected from fire and have good round the
year ground cover and where erosion has been substantially reduced to acceptable
levels. The balance one-third would be areas where, particularly due to fire,
there would still be a risk of erosion.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1         The fact that the project reforestation did not involve the local
communities other than as paid labourers and the ban on felling and extraction,
even in cases where this is required for proper thinning and management of
plantations, cause concern for the sustainability of the plantations established
and the security of the investments already made.   A shortage of government
budget seems likely to dictate that regular staff members will be very much
reduced to 18 for Patabangan and 9 for Magat, plus a small number of labourers,
mainly  for  fire  control  activities.    There will  not,  therefore,  be  any



- 13 -
opportunity for further management and improvement of the plantations, including
gap filling or enrichment planting, and inadequate staff were to ensure
reasonable protection from fire and illicit felling.   Fire continues to be a
major problem in both watersheds (Annex 1).
7.2         Activities in the pilot project areas are being continued by FMD
(formerly BFD) and BAI although at a reduced scale, dictated by government budget
availability.
8. Bank Performance
8.1         The Bank's support throughout the project was generally satisfactory.
The main deficiencies, in which the Bank was involved, was that the project as
prepared and appraised was over-optimistic in design (para. 4.2) and that the
pilot projects introduced by the Bank only during the writing of the SAR were
conceived too late, were little prepared, had unrealistic schedules and targets
and unnecessarly complicated project organization and management (paras. 4.4 and
4.5).   A fundamental concern with a project of this type is continuity of
financial support - 6 or even 8 years - is just not long enough. As conceived
at appraisal the project was intended to be a first phase with expanded
activities in Magat being a secor.d phase.   Due to land tenure problems and
legal/legislation deficiencies the latter was not proceeded with (para. 6.14).
WB financial assistance and direct interest in the project therefore ended at a
time when continued small but important investments were required in continued
establishment costs of the plantations which government has been unable to
finance. There is a consequent risk that without adequate continued management
and protection, investments made under the project may be lost.
8.2         The other aspects of Bank performance such as supervision missions,
timing, composition, continuity of staffing, sensitivity to government's problems
and speed of response were all satisfactory or good.  1crhaps the Bank's greatest
achievement was in getting involved in the project in the first place.   At
preparation and appraisal the whole idea of attempting to rehabilitate and manage
watersheds was regarded as problematic and controversial. That the Bank decided
to support government in this project, from -which much experience has been
obtained, is highly creditable.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1         Severe  budgetary  difficulties  and  political  problems  hampered
government's ability to be an effective partner in the project (paras. 5.1-5.3).
So far as these problems allowed, government did try to help the project's
progress by making changes in bureaucratic procedures. The most damaging aspect
of government's involvement in the project has been the enforcement of a complete
ban on extraction activities. This forced on the project a major change in its
objectives (para. 5.4). It has also completely killed any interest by the local
population in the project as being a source of financial benefits and prevents
proper management of the plantations (para. 6.11).  In addition it creates a
premium on illegal cutting. The government agencies involved have also not been
able to develop an acceptable method for management and exploitation of the mango



- 14 -
aad cashew nut plantations.  As a result these sre neglected and low yielding
(para. 6.3).
9.2         On procurement, government should have been more careful in drawing
up the tender requirements for the roadmaking equipment to specify that it should
be of a type already successfully used in the Philippines (para. 5.2).
10. Project Relationships
10.1        The relationship between Government and the Bank was generally good.
Indeed the high mutual regard of each for the other sometimes resulted in
unquestioning attitudes of the partner's abilities and a degree of complacency
in understanding the other's procedures.   Thus government accepted the Bank
judgment that it would be helpful to have the pilot projects included, even
though they had never been discussed at appraisal; the Bank thought that LOI 1002
gave an adequate legal basis for the project, which it did not; government
thought that payment for road building equipment would be paid after satisfactory
receival and commissioning (normal GOP procedure) whereas the Bank paid the
supplier direct on evidence of loading and dispatch; and the Bank thought that
its accounting and reimbursement procedures were understood until a Bank mission
in April 1987 found that they were not.
10.2        The Bank's decision, just prior to negotiations, to reduce the loan
from 6OZ to only 50Z of total project costs was regretted by government but the
subsequent Bank agreement in 1983 to increase the share of expenditures it would
finance to over 83Z of SAR project cost estimates (para. 5.1) showed sensitivity
to government's financial difficulties.
11. Consultancy Services
11.1        Consulting services for the Magat Watershed Feasibility Study for
reforestation and for management and accounting systems was generally
satisfactory. Consultants used for the IFPFPPP produced detailed project designs
involving a large number of small plantations. The design was subsequently found
impracticable and simplified by BFD.   The consultancy report on the range
management pilot project was only a feasibility study and therefore did not
provide the degree of detail required for successful implementation. A further
phase of consultancy perhaps including technical assistance (para. 4.10) should
have been provided.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1        Project documentation and data collection was generally satisfactory.
Problems were experienced in coordinating the reporting of the various agencies.
In retrospect the requirement for production of a quarterly report seems too
frequent and an annual report with a mid-year review report would have been
adequate and given staff more time for field work.   Agreeing on a simple
reporting format for recording progress at the start of the project would also
have been useful. Generally NIA performed best of the implementing agencies in
regularity of reporting and production of audited accounts. Both BFD and BAI had
some difficulties in this regard.



- 15 - 
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWERS' PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Objectives and Design
1.1       The  main  thrust  of  the  project  was  to  establish  and  develop
plantations of agro-forest and timber species on open grasslands within the
portion of public lands at Pantabangan watershed and a pilot area at Magat
watershed.   It aimed at controlling soil erosion in the catchment areas to
minimize sedimentation to the reservoirs and at the same time provide adequate
employment opportunities to the watershed residents. Initially, the project also
suggested revenue and profit sharing to the local residents.
1.2       At project formulation and appraisal,  planning and evaluation of
project returns were based on expectations that income generated from the agro-
forestry and timber plantations would be sufficient to justify cost of
establishment and maintenance and will also provide long term employment to the
watershed occupants.
1.3       Although the physical objective of the project on establishing the
plantation areas was substantially attained, the expected financial and economic
returns were not  realized.   Further,  the project's  impact on minimizing
sedimentation to the reservoir and in providing long-term employment to the
watershed residents remains to be seen.  These were mainly due to mismatched
project objectives and design.
1.4       The recommendation to use agro-forest species such as ipil-ipil for
leafmeal, cashew and mango which promised a high ERR to further justify the
project seemed not appropriate with the prevailing climatic conditions in the
area, relatively poor soil and silvicultural practices for selected species that
conflict with erosion control measures since they require massive cultivation and
ground clearing which expose the soil to erosion.
1.5       The project objectives on reducing sedimentation to the reservoir is
quite optimistic considering that only 30? of the Pantabangan watershed area was
covered by the Project and 2Z In Magat watershed. There are other land-uses and
open grasslands outside the project coverage that are major point sources of
erosion. Besides, the selection of species used in the project, their inherent
silvicultural practices, and the recommended planting lay-out which was mostly
monoculture scheme were not quite effective in erosion control.
1.6       It is also very possible that most of the silt and sediment rushing
to the dam was lost from the various parts of the watershed long ago. Although
upstream soil loss could be controlled to a certain extent within and without the
project sites because of the improved vegetation, the downstream sedimentation
would continue, because so much silt and sediment are trapped within the
watershed area and would continue to be washed down.
1.7       The project's thrust to provide long-term employment and revenue and
profit shares to the watershed occupants have been unrealistic because of She
very limited revenues from the project plantations, existing forestry laws
banning any extraction activities within watershed areas which may provide



- 16 -
additional employment and income generation opportunities to the watershed
residents, and the increasing watershed population.
1.8       The project duration based on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was
quite optimistic. The expected annual average reforestation rate of 5,300 ha for
six years was quite difficult to attain considering the required counterpart
funds from the government during the initial phase of the project, problems in
the mobilization of personnel, equipment and plantation inputs and the limited
duration of planting season.   The project should have allowed more time for
start-up activities and lower annual physical targets at contiguous areas.
1.9       The project design should have considered complementary component or
scheme within the reforestation area that had directly involved the local
population in the rehabilitation and development of areas near the community
centers  rather than as paid labor.   This scheme will greatly enhance the
participation of the residents in watershed protection and fire prevention as
they could make use of their assigned areas as their livelihood center and source
of fuelwood and farmhouse construction materials.
1.10      To strengthen the reforestation component on its forest protection and
fire  prevention  activities,  the  implementation  of  the  Integrated  Forest
Protection and Fire Prevention Pilot Project (IFPFPPP) component should have been
undertaken at the reforestation area coverage.   This integration scheme in
addition to the community relations and development assistance extended by the
project would have helped in more effective prevention and control of fires.
2. Project Implementation
2.1       The plantations were established and developed at high costs on poor
soils. In spite of the recommended silvicultural practices being followed, the
expected growth rate and yield of selected species were not attained.   The
situation was aggravated by pest and diseases which seriously affected ipil-ipil,
cashew, mango and pine species. Fire incidences also set back the development
of some established plantation areas.
2.2       The inadequacy and delayed releases of counterpart funds during the
initial phase of the project implementation greatly contributed to the
unattainment of the initial year programs thus requiring extension of the project
implementation for two years to complete the major activities.
2.3       The timetable set in the SAR provided no opportunity in the early
years of the project to further study site adaptability of the recommended
species. Decisions to continue planting certain species on a particular site
were based on the indicative plan in the feasibility study and on the performance
of earlier plantings -- not on trial planting. This had contributed in poor
performance of some of the plantation areas.
2.4       There seemed to be no problems in the coordination initiatives with
other government agencies and the community relations established by the project
to generate external support on the technical aspect and fire prevention and
control activities. It was recognized that there were inadequate experiences on
large scale reforestation works undertaken in the country by any government
agency except this project.



- 17 -
2.5       On the incidences of fires, this problem was not confined only within
the project area, but common in all areas in the watershed,   One of the
identified causes of these fire incidences was the antagonism of some former
workers towards the project due to the termination of their services.  Others
were unintentional in nature and effects of the conventional practices of upland
farmers in clearing their area before farming operations, burning of pasture
areas to rejuvenate grasses for cattles and carabaos and recklessness since the
entire project area is accessible to residents gathering forest products and
hunting wildlife. Implementation of "no entry policy' to the watershed areas is
a difficult task although it had been done by the project only in some limited
portion of its plantation areas.
2.6       The participation of the local residents on forest protection and fire
prevention greatly depended on the informal rapport established by the project
with the community residents, the effectiveness of the community leaders and the
meaningful incentives the residents could gain out of participating in such
activity. However, as the project completed its activities and started to phase-
out its personnel, the usual support of the residents on forest protection and
fire prevention became very limited. The residents preferred to engage in their
farming activities and other paid works to support their families instead of
voluntarily participating in forest protection and fire control works.
3. Project Impact
3.1       The project had successfully demonstrated the improvement of watershed
cover  from  grassland  to plantation  area.    Its  results  provide  adequate
information and experiences on how to properly address similar problems in the
future. The plantations that have been established are available resources that
could be exploited for economic purposes once policies will be improved to allow
such activity within the watershed area.
3.2       The plantations of mango and cashew are investments that -iill be
managed through the participation of the community residents or nongovernmental
organizations to maximize their productive value.
3.3       The employment generated by the project during its implementation
period had positively contributed in the improvement of the socic-economic status
of the personnel involved. The seasonal works that will be undertaken during its
Operation & Maintenance phase could also extend limited employment opportunities
for some of the residents in the watershed.
3.4       The impact of the project on erosion contzol and its effect OIL the
reduction of sedimentation to the reservoirs are still being studied. Various
activities are undertaken by NIA in collaboration with Hydraulics Research,
England to quantify the soil erosion and reservoir sedimentation. Analysis and
integration of the results from the bathymetric surveys conducted at Pantabangan
and Magat watersheds and the soil erosion monitoring activities at Magat are
expected to be completed after the final data is generated this year. This model
will be used to assess the impact of reforestation and other change in land-use
on soil erosion and reservoir sedimentation.



- 18 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Relgoad Usrtd Bar* Loans
Loon Titles                    Purpose                 Year of            Status           Co  ents
Approval
Loan 637-PH                Construction of                      1969        Completed         PPAR No. 3063
Upper Papanga River         Pantabangan Dam, and                            1977              issued    June
Irrigation Project         rehabilitation and                                                 30, 1980.
construction of irrigation
systems.
Loans 1154-PH, 1567-PH,   Financed construction of          1975, 1978,    Completed          PPAR No. 7923
1639-PH and 1639-PH/SAP   Magat River Dam, reha-            1978, 1984    1983, 1985,         issued    June
Maget River                 bilitation and                                  1986, 1986        30, 1989.
Muttipurpose Projects,    construction of irri-
Stages I, II and III       gation systems, and
resettlement.
Loan 1227-PH               Construction of a dam on             1976        Conpleted 1983   PPAR No. 7923
Chico River Irrigation    the Chico river,                                                    issued    June
Project                     improvement and extension                                         30, 1989.
of 19,200 ha of paddy Land
and improvement of 65 km
of provincial roads. Also
financed feasibility
studies for the Watershed
Management and Erosion
Control Project
Loan 1506-PH               Supervised Credit (DBP)              1978        Completed 1985   PPAR No.  7585
Smallholder Treefarming   and technical services for                                          i s s u e d
and Forestry Project        tree development on 28,600                                        December   30,
ha by 7,400 smallholders,                                         1988.
leafmeal, fuelwood,
charcoal and pulpwood
production mostly under
market contracts with
private companies.
Establish 3,000 ha of
trial pre-plantation.
Loan 2360-PH               Raise rural incomes                  1984        Ongoing
Centrai Visayas             through better resources
Regional Project           management including
rehabilitation and
construction activities in
agriculture, forestry and
fisheries. Support for
decentralized government
development programmes.



- 19 -
Loan 3360 PN/Credit         hybrid project                              Ongoing          Project design
2277-PH                   ;onsisting of a soctor                                         d r aw s    a n
Enviroeent and Natural   adjustment program (SECAL)                                      experience  of
Resources Sector          ond an investment                                              the    Centrat
Adjustment Program_e      component. The SECAL                                           V i s a y a a
woutd be directed at                                           R e 9 i o n a t
preservation of biological                                     Project,   and
diversity, including                                           on    envirCnI
definition of areas to be                                      m e n t u t
protected, ivproved                                            an a I ys I s
enforcement in togging                                         presented   in
operations and imosition                                      Philippines
of charges for the use of                                      Environment
natural resources, land                                        and    Natural
twnure aspects, provision                                     Resources
of extension services in                                       Sector   Study
upland areas and                                               (1988).
encouragement of ccuundity
based resource management.
The investment component
would provide
institutional and other
support for commsunity
resource projects in four
regions.
2. Proiect Tibetable
item                                           Date Platved          Date Revised            Date Actual
Identification                                                             -                February 1979
(Project Brief)
Preparation                                                               M- ay 1979
Appraisal Mission                                June 1979                 -                  June 1979
Loan Negotiations                               April 1980                 -              23-25 April 1980
Board Approval                                   July 1980                 -                 8 Juty 1980
Loan Signature                                  August 1980                -                4 August 1980
Loan Effectiveness                             October 1980                -               30 October 1980
Project Completion                             30 June 1986               1/              31 Deceffber 1988
Loan Closing                                 31 December 1986             1/              14 August 1989
lf            Two revisions, each of one year, the first on 22 September, 1986, the second on 24 March,
1988. A further extension of the loan ctosing date by 45 days from 30 June was agreed on an
exceptionat basis to accommodate final disbursement requests.
I



- 20 -
Coments:
Issue raised at Preparation:
- On 16 April, 1979, the President of the Philippines issued a Letter of instruction (LOI) No. 845
transferring responsibility over the two watershed areas to NIA. However, this did not go far enough in
giving authority to NRA. The World Bank suggested that it should be amended to specifically (a) appoint
WIA as the lead agency in ieplementing the project; (b) transferring the functions and responsibilities
over watershed areas to WIA; and (c) vestirig jurisdiction and control over watershed areas in NIA.  A
revised LOI no. 1002 of 20 March, 1980, included these amendents.
Issued raised at appraisal/negotiations:
- The World Bank raised a nruer of issues during  ppraisal which were agreed to at loan negotiations and
become loan covenants (Section 7). The main item were the need for a memorandun of understanding between
NIA and BFD; establishment of a commercial accounting system; and a plan for the sharing of project
revenues with  eployees. The World Bank also reduced the loan mount from 60X of total project costs to
50X The total loan amount therefore declined from USS45 million to USS38 million.
3. Loan Disbursemnts
Cu_tlative Disursements
Finuavial Year         Appraisal              Actual              Actual as            Actual as
(July/June)           Estimte                                 Percentage of        Percentage of
Estimate              Total
Disbursement
C....(USS million) .(%).
1981                 2.0                  0.36                  18                    1
1982                 5.9                  2.83                  48                    9
1983                 12.5                 7.34                  59                    22
1984                 21.0                 15.06                 72                    46
1985                 27.8                 18.17                 65                    55
1986                 33.0                21.93                  66                    67
1987                 38.0                24.51                  65                    75
1988                                     28.09                   -                    86
1989                                     32.25                   -                    98
1990                                     32.83                   -                   100



- 21 -
4.  Proiect IdtImntatiSQ
Irdicators                    Appaisal         Actual       Percentage
Estimte                     Achievmnt
VIA
Nursery operatiorns
Production of seedlings ('000)                    51,375          59,410           116
Plantation establishment (ha)
Giant Ipil ipil (Lecasn  leuocaiphla)
L"fmeal                                            3,000             681            23
Charcoal/fuelwood                                  6,000          12,243           104
Yemne (  ltin  wbors)                              5,000           3,961            79
Narra (Pteroca   philipimsnis)                     1,200           1,280           107
Benguet pine (Pimm kei)')                          8,000           3,386            42
Mahogany (Suietenia _crophytta)                      500             546           109
Cashew (Armicardim occidentate)                    4,500           4,002            89
Mango (Nanifera indica)                            2,900           2,527            87
Agoho (Cstrirn eoWsftifotia)                         500              1/            NA
Mimosa (Acacia auricotaeformis)                      500              1/            NA
Eucalyptus (Eucatyptus cmidulensis)                    -           1,061            NA
Protection species                                     -           1,643            NA
Total                                             32,100          31,330 2/         98
Production (1980-1988)
Leafmeal (tons)                                  225,000             405             0
Charcoal (tons)                                   86,400             348             0
Fuelwood m)                                           NS           3,512            NA
Roads (km)
Survey                                               410             495           121
Design                                               410             495           121
Construct ion
Up to base course                                     NS             433            NA
Completed                                            410             409           100
BFD
Forest Protection Pilot Project
Forest protection (ha)                           127,000         127,000           100
Fire control (ha)                                 27,000          27,000           100
Greenbelt construction (ha)                           NS             840            NA
Look-out towers                                       NS               4            NA
Fore;try occupancy
Families (no.)                                       300             300 3/        100
Area (ha)                                             NS           1,079            NA
Reforestation (ha)                                   800           2,423           303
Roads (km)
Access                                                20            12.8            64
Trails                                               220             279           127
Construction (no.)
Buildings                                             NS              16            NA
Look-out towers                                       NS               4            NA
Check dams m)                                         NS           1,962            NA
Vehicles/equipment
Pick-Ups                                              10               5            50



22
Indicators                      Awraisal         Actual         Percentage
Estimte                       Achievement
Motorcycles                                              10                0              0
Heavy eqpemnt                                             7                0              0
Ca  umication equipwmnt                                   6                6            100
N_t Aro-For_ try Pilot Project
Nursery operations
Nursery establishment (ha)                               uS                6             NA
Seedltng production ('000)
- Fruit tres                                             MS              850             MA
- Forest tree                                            NS            1,260             NA
Plantation etablishment (ha)
BFD                                                      Ns               66             NA
Coamii ty                                                NS              447             NA
Individuals                                              us
Infrastructure
Nlni-dum (no.)                                           NS               34             NA
irrigation canal (km)                                    NS              6.8             NA
Main roads (km)                                          NS              5.4             NA
Access roads (km)                                        NS             16.9             NA
Buildings (no.)                                          NS                5             NA
Nursery sheds (no.)                                      NS               Nl             NA
Water systems (no.)                                      NS               NI             NA
NS = not specified;  NA   not available;  NI   no information.
1/   Included in protection species
2/   In addition about 1,330 ha of fueLwood area were replanted to other species and
about 6,400 ha replanted in the year following initial planting, and about 7,400 ha
replanted in areas damaged by fire, drought, poor soils or pests and diseases,
giving a total area planted by the project of 46,460 ha. Due mainly to fire damage,
and also areas in plantations with poor survival due to drought, poor soil,
mismatching of sites/species and pests and diseases 7,054 ha require replanting and
the adequately established and stocked plantation area is estimated at 24,276 ha.
3/   Of which 243 issued with Certificate of Stewardship Contract (CSC).



- 23 -
Coamnt:
Actual implementation periods of the various project activities compared with the schedule established
at appraisal were as follows:-
Project lpteontation Period
Conhnts                        Fro                  To                  Duration
ational Irrilation Adkbnistration
WECP - Reforestation Component
(Pantabangan and Nagat)
Plannd:                               1 January 1981 1/ 31 December 1986    6 years
Actual:                               1 January 1981 1/ 31 December 1968      8 years
_aat Watershed Feasibility Study
Phase I & 11
Plannd:                               I January 1981    31 December 1983    3 years
Actual:                               1 January 1981    31 December 1985    5 years
lurau of For t De.topmnt 2 /
(Department of Environment and
Natural Resources)
Integrated Forest Protection and
Fire Prevention Pilot Project (Angat
and Magat)
Planned:                              1 January 1981 3/ 31 December 1983    3 years
Actual:                               1 July 1981 3/    31 December 1988    7 years 6 months
Magat Smaliholders Agro-Forestry
Pilot ProJect (Magat)
Planned:                              1 January 1982    31 December 1985    4 years 4/
Actual:                               1 August 1982      31 December 1988    6 years 5 months
Bureau of Animl Industry -
(Department of Agriculture)
Magat Range Management Pilot Project
(Magat)
planned:                              1 January 1981    31 December 1983    3 years
Actual:                               1 January 1982    31 December 1987    6 years
1/   Preliminary  activities started pre-project from 1 June, 1980.
2/   Now the Forest Management Bureau (FMB).
3/   Preliminary activities were pi, ned to start pre-project from 1 July, 1980.
4/   At appraisal three years, but subsequently extended.



- 24 -
5. Prolect Cost *nd Finwwisin
A.   Proieet Coas
Appraisal Esti_ te         of which FE        FE (S)                Actual 1/
US$ willion
F million     USS witlion                                      P million      USS million
Reforestation         337.9            45.6            17.1              38           739.0            47.7
of Pantabangan
anW "Pgt
Watersheds
"Pa t                   14.0            4.9             1.1              58            14.5             1.2
Fasibility
Study
Forest
Protection
Pilot Project          24.2             3.3             1.2              37
28.9             i.4
SmalIholder
Agro-Forestry
Pilot Project
22.2            3.0             1.0              33
Range
Management
Pilot Project                                                                           0.3             0.2
Dan Safety                 -               -           20.4              38             3.3             0.2
Remedial Works
Base Cost             398.3            53.8            20.4              38
Physical               34.9             4.7             1.6              34
Contingencie'
Price                  121.8           16.5             5.0              30
Contingencies
Total Project         555.0            75.0            27.0              36           786.0            50.5
Cost
1/   Information provided by NIA to the PCR mission for expenditures up to October 1989.
Comments:
Due to the devaluation of the Peso reiative to the USS, actual projct costs are about 422 higher than
appraisal estimates in Peso terms, but about 33% less than the SAR estimate in USS terms. No estimates were
available of actual foreign exchange expenditure. The reforestation component actual cost is comparativeLy
close to the appraisal estimate.  Savings in building costs, the charcoal oven component and fewer vehicle
purchases were compensated by the large area of replanting (15,130 ha) undertaken by the project (Part 111,
Section 4, footnote 2/).



- 25 -
B. Proiect Finmnciro
Source                          PLTn         X of expenditure to         Final
be financed
Amomat
USS million  Planned 1/   Reu)sed   USS million
1.  Civil Works                                        7.00          45           95          11.05
2.  Plantation establishment                          15.00           45          95           15.41
3.  Equipment, vehicles and materials                 9.00                                     5.70
-  directly imported                                                 100          100
-  locatly manufactured                                              100          100
-  procured locally                                                  65           85
4.  Consultant services                                3.70          100          100          0.67
5.  UnaLlocated                                        3.30
38.00                                   32.83
GOP                                                   37.00                                   17.67
TOTAL                                                 75.00                                   50.50
I/ As per the Loan Agreement Schedule 1.
2/ Revised percentages of expenditure were agreed and the Loan Agreement amended
in August 1983.



- 26 -
6. Prolect Rcsuits
A. Direct Conefits
1960-1968          1969-1996           1999-2008             2009-2019
SAR     Actual     SM     PCR emt.   SAN         PCR        SAR        PCR
est.                  est.
Leafmael (tons)             225,000    405    450,000       0      135,000       0          0          0
Charcoal (tone)             86,400      348    302,400       0      69,120       0          -
Fueswood (tons)                -                   -      28,630              38,935        -          -
Mango fruit (tone)          27,730    0 1/   444,450   52,838   587,150   160,231   645,865    179,399
Cashew nuts (in sheLL)      17,785      1 1/   97,995    9,616   112,500   44,285    123,750    57,530
(tons)
Ye_nne (6elina) m3
Pulpwood                       -         -      236,235
140,870             53,485
Timber                                   -      62,780                -
Berguet pine (P. kesiya)                 -      131,450     0      246,170               67,480        0
(m')                                                                          125,244
Pulpwood                       -         -      41,635      0      147,480               61,330        0
Timber
Narra (Pterocarus                                  -         -                58,339    244,400        -
phitippwensis) (m)
Mahogany (Swietgnia            -         -         -         -         -                1,761,000
macrophylla) (m )
1/ Excluding any unrecorded harvesting by local commiunities.
Comments: See Part 1, paras. 6.4 - 6.5.
B. Economic l ect
Appraisal Estimate               PCR  1/
Economic Rate of Return:
Whole project                                                         18X                   Not calculated
Pantabangan watershed sub-project                                     18X                          )
)4%
Magat watershed sub-project                                           19X                          )
Comments:
Production benefits estimated for the PCR (Part 1, para. 6.5 and Section 6 A above) are considerabLy lower
and more slowly achieved than those projected at appraisal. The much lower economic rate of return is therefore
largely due to smaller and later benefits than expected. No atteffpt has been made to quantify the benefits
arising from reduction in erosion as a result of the project.



- 27 -
C. Studies
Study                      Purpoe                    Status                   lqct
1.   at UAtershed         A feasibility study of the   Completed 1981 to   The final report formed the
Feaibility Study          catchaent leading to a plan  1i85                  basis for an "Indicative
for the development of                            Plan for the Protection and
selected critical sub-                            Development of the Magat
catchm_nts of the watershed.                      WatershedO.  Within the
The study was expected to                         project period neither of
include proposaIs developed                       the pilot projects were
by the SmlihoLder Aro-                            able to provide the support
Forestry and Range Mangement                      to the feasibility study
Pilot Projects for treating                       expected at appraisal.  Due
the critical catchments which                     to land tenure problems and
could have been the subject                       the lack of appropriate
of a second phase project.                         legislation the possibility
of a second phase pilot
project did not
materialise.
2. Consultancy studies   (i)  Organization and          Completed 1980-82.  Successfully implemented.
for NIA.                  management information study
including setting up a
budgeting control and general
accounting system suitable
for a commercially operating
entity.
(ii)  Marketing consultancy  Completed 1981-84.  Due to the slow build up in
studies for the leafmeal,                         production, diseases and
charcoal, cashews and mangoes                     the legal restrictions on
to be produced by the                             any felling activities the
project.                                          studies have not been fulty
exploited.
(iii) Revenue and profit     Completed 1984.      Not implemented due to
sharing schemes study.                             legal restrictions.
(iv)  A range of consultant  Completed 1981-84.  The range of studies
studies on planning,                              completed and manuals
implementation and technical                      produced helped materially
problems including the                             in the implementation of
production of technical                           the reforestation
manuals on forest protection,                     component.
pLantation establishment and
development, nursery
activities, forest road
engineering, forest industry
(leafmeal and charcoal
production), crop protection
and soil surveying.
2. Consultant studies    Planning and implementation  Completed.             The studies gave some
for BFD on the Forest    recommendations for the                             assistance in planning and
Protection Pilot Project. conponent.                                         implementing the component,
but included some
weaknesses (e.g. plan to
plant many small, scattered
sites) and subsequent field
visits by the consultants
were inadequate.
3. Consultant study in   Planning and implementation  Completed 1982.        The study only provided
the Range Management      recommendations for the                            broad outlines for
Pilot Project.            component.                                         component planning and
implementation. Since it
could not be used as a
blueprint or manual on
planning and implementation
of the pilot component, the
study was not very useful.



- 28
7. Status of Coyuts
Loan Airinnt                                      SiJect                                       Status
Sectien
3.01                 uThe Borrower shall caus. the Project to be carried out with due The first part of the
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate       covent was complied
financial, adinistrative, engineering, agricultural and           with but with
silvicultural practices and shall provide, proaptly as nedel,  governent's
the funds, facilitiep, services  nd other resources required for financial
the purpose".                                                     difficulties over the
whole Life of the
project, funds were
not prowptty
provided.
3.02                 Employment of adequately qualified and experienced consultants   Complied
on terms acceptable to the Bank.
3.03                 (a)  Insurance of project goods                                   Coaplied
(b) All goods and services financed by the loan to be used        Complied 1/
exclusively for the project.
3.04                 (a)  Submission of plans, specifications, reports contract        Complied
documents and work and procurement schedules
(b) Maintenance of adequate records and submission to the Bank  Complied 2/
(c) Preparation of a project completion report for submission   NIA prepared a draft,
to the Bank                                                       but never sent it to
the Bank
3.05                 Acquisition of land required for the project                      Complied 3/
3.06                 Appointment of a suitable Project Director                        CompLied
3.07                 Agreement between NIA and BD on their respective roles in the    Complied
form of a memorandum of understanding
4.01                 No other external debt to enjoy priority over the Loan by way of Cooplied
a Lien on government assets
4.02                 Maintenance of adequate accounts                                  Complied 4/
4.03                 Regultr audit of accounts                                         Complied 4/
4.04                 NIA to establish a commercial accounting system for their         Complied
activities in reforestation; ancillary works and equipment; and
institutional support.
4.05                 NIA to prepare a revenue sharing plan by end December 1982 for   Deleted from the Loan
submission to Bank and to commence implementation by end June    Agreement in March
1983.                                                             1988
4.06                 NIA to prepare a profit sharing plan by end June 1985 for         Deleted from the Loan
submission to Bank and to commence implementation by end          Agreement in March
December 1985.                                                    1988.
1/  Instances have been reported of project vehicles being taken for the use        of non-project senior
staff.
2/ Reporting by BFD and BAI was not always satisfactory.
3/ The project was intended to secure a sescond site for the Range                  Management PiLot
Project, but was unable to get possession.
4/  The performance of BFD and BAI in maintaining and auditing accounts was         not satisfactory.



8. Use of lank Recurces
A. Staff lInuts (staff weeks)
FY78       FY79       FY80       FY81       FY82       FY83       FY84       FY85        FY86       FY87       FYM0       FYO9       FY96       TOWM
LENP         2.5        15.9                               -           -                     -                                                                 18.4
LENA           -         5.1       35.0                                -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          40.1
LENN           -          -         2.4        0.3                    -           -          -          -          -          -                     -          2.7
SPN            -          -          -         9.3         13.9       8.8        14.5       9.6         5.5        9.7        7.1       3.5        1.1         83.0
Total        2.5        21.0        37.4        9.6        13.9       8.8        14.5       9.6        5.5         9.7        7.1        3.5        1.1       144.2
LENP - Activities prior to Appreisal.
LENA - Activities retated to Appraisal.
LEMN - Negotiation activities.
SPN   - Supervision time.
B.  Nissis
Type of Nission               Manth/Year            No. of Persons            Days in Field           Specialization      Performnce latig  1/  Twe of Prct4e   2/
Represaited
Pre-appraisal                     11/78                     3                       19            Agriculture, Forestry,
Economics
Appraisal                         6/79                      4                       21            Agriculture, Forestry,             -
Economics, Civil
Engineering
Appraisal Follow-Up               3/80                      4                        5                 AgricuLture,
Economics, Civit
Engineering, Legal
Supervision 1                     10/80                     1                       10                Agricutture,                   2                     F,O J
Supervision 2                     2/81                       2                      7             Agriculture, Forestry              2                     f,O '(
Supervision 3                     10/81                     3                       7             Agriculture, Forestry              2                      F,T
Supervision 4                     3/82                      2                       7             Agricutture, Forestry              2                      F,T
Supervision 5                     9/82                      2                       7             Agriculture, Forestry              2                        J,T
Supervision 6                     8/83                      2                       7             Agriculture, forestry              2                      T,F
Supervision 7                     2/84                      2                       8             Agriculture, Forestry              2                       J,F
Supervision 8                     12/84                     1                       7                  Agriculture                   2                     F,O 4/
Supervision 9                     5/85                      2                       7                  Agriculture                   2                      0 4/
Supervision 10                    10/85                     1                       7                  Agriculture                   2                      0  /
Supervision 11                    5/87                      1                       12                 Agriculture                   2                      0  /
Supervision 12                    9/87                      1                       7                  Agriculture                   2                      0 *
Supervision 13                    6/88                      1                       3                   Economist                    2                      0 _/
Supervision 14                    10/88                     1                       9                  Agriculture                   2                      0 it
0 4/
1/  Problem-free or minor problems;  2 =  moderate problems; 3   major problems
2V   F = financial;  T = technical;  N = managerial;  0 =- other
3/ Project boundary dispute between NIA and BFD.
4/ Lack of development impact.



- 30 -
ANNEX 1
Area of Plantation Planted and Area Damaged by Fire in the Pantabangan and Magat
Watersheds.
Table 1: Pantabangan - Area Established, Excluded and Net Area
Table 2: Magat - Area Established, Burned and Net Area
Table 3: Fire Incidents and Area Affected
Chart 1: Fire Incidents and Area Affected
Note:   There are at least six causes of forest fires in the two
watersheds:  (a) burning to provide fresh grass for cattle; (b) burning prior to
land cultivation; (c) accidental fires associated with honey and ant-eggs
collection; (d) premeditated burning of plantations to ensure continued
employment as replanting labor, or as a protest to being unemployed; (e)
accidental fires associated with cigarettes and tourists; and (f) natural fires
as a result of lightning strikes,  etc.   Of these,  the completion mission
considers that (a) and (b) are probably the most important. Burning to clear
land for cultivation is often in the lowland at the base of a hill and farmers
are unconcerned if the fire then carries on up the hill. It is very difficult
to judge the extent of (d).  Fire incidence would presumably be less if the
surrounding communities felt that they would benefit directly from a share of the
value of ultimate production. However, the completion found little evidence to
suggest that many fires were started maliciously by disaffected local
inhabitants.



PNILIPPINIES: Watershed _Mgment arud Erosion Control Project
Ane7 1: Area of Plantation Planted and Area Dmaged by Fire in the Pantsbangan md N_gt Ibterdswe
Tabte 1. Area Established, Ares Excluded (Area D_nged by FiresjPlantations
with Poor Growth ad Lom Survival (Affected by Pest aind Diseass)
and Met FJied Area
(ha)
_ _ _ _ -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                    _. 
Sector I                  Sector 2                  Sector 3                 Sector 4                   Sector 5                     Total _-
species          Est.    Exe.    Firmed   Est.       Exc.    Firmed   Est.   FAe.  Firmed  Est.    Exc.   Firmed   Est.    Exc.    Firmed   Est.             Exc.    Filrd
Area    Area      Area     Area    Area      Area   Area  Area    Area    Area   Area          Area    Area    Ares       Ara       Area    Ara
B. Pine            380      160      220    1,106      341       765   1_851    401    1 450     -       = -                        == 3-33r                    902    2,435
Cashew           I,150      468      682       553      83      470      984    184      800      588     50       538     263      113       ISO    3,538      m      2,64
Charcoal         2,269   1,000    1,269    1,185       375      810             - 025     250   775    -  275      503   -,447   1,60       ,7       8, 704   3,500    5,204
Leafmeal                                         _                                               271               271     410               330       681       80      601
iahogany                                                                        _                 157              157     100                100      257        0      257
lgn                100               100    11         421      600    =                          708     70       638     20        43       157   2,029       534    1,495
Marra             =                             50               50      179      9      170     570      10       560     358       58      300    1,157        77      1,080
Beanie             805      222      583              _                  380             380     975               975     330               330    2,490       222    2,268
E.                 315       15      300        91               91      410     30      380      173     23       150      72                72    1,061        68      993
Camlidjlensis     _I_ ___
Mixed Species                                                            312     72      240     384      13       371     572      162      410    1,268       247    1,021
TOTAL            5,019   1,865    3,154    4,006   1,220    2,786   5,141 | 946   4,195   4,604   "441    4,163   5,752   1,976    3,696   24,522   6.528   17,994
ixed Species - Ipit-lpli, Eucalyptus Camaldulensis, Ricosa, A. Mangitn, Marra, Mahogany, etc.
stablished Area - Total area planted.
xcluded Area - Areas that were severely damaged by fires, patches of plantations with low survival due to prolonged drought, poor soil nd inadaptability of species to some sites,
and areas affected by pests and insects. These areas require intensive replanting or enrichment planting, development and fertitization.
irmed Area -   Established Area less Excluded Area.  Areas replanted or enriched and survived from fire incidents are included.



PHILIPPINES:   Watershed Management and Erosion Control Project
Annex 1: Area of Plantation Planted and Area Oamaged by Fire in the Pantabangan snd Magat Watersheds
Tab(e 2: Sunnry of Established Piantatiors - Ngagt Iatersbed
Sector I                                 Sector II                            Overall Plantation
Speciec      Finmed Up                                    Firmed Up                               Firmed Up
Aro *a of       lurned                        Ares as       Dtned                   Area as of      Sunod
1988      1989-1991        Met Area        of 1968     1989-1991    Net Area        19_         1989-1991       Not Are
Charcosl             1.234        153.50         1,080.50        2305         274.30    2,030.70          3,539        427.J0         3,111.20
Mango                  293         16.50           276.50           205        48            157            498         64.50           433.50
Cashew                 221                   221±:q&±                          13            230            464         13              451
Yearle                 728          -              728              743         -            743          1.471          -            1,471
Benguet Pine            22                          22               27        20              7             49         20               29
Marra                   73          -               73               50         -             50            123          -              123
Mahogany               106                         106              183          .20      182.80            289          0.20           288.08
Be9rss                   .          -                               98                        98             98             _            96
Protection             197                         197              s0          .             so            277          -              277
Total                2,874       179   --        2,7D45 3,934                355.50    357.50             6,8          5.50           6,5 2.50



- 33 -
Table 3.   Fire Incidents and Area Affected 1/
Year                 Pantabangan                              Magat
No. of fire      Area affected       No. of fire       Area affected
incidents            (ha)            incidents             (ha)
1979               2                224.0                3                 5.5
1980               20               270.3                4                50.0
1981               11               151.0                5                48.0
1982               1                 0.5                 2                74.0
1983               23               145.4                7                291.3
1984               36               180.7                2                73.2
1985               74              1,002.5               5                23.6
1986               83              1,442.4               8                76.8
1987               94              1,304.5               11               279.8
1988               46               919.0                2                11.2
1989               98              2,023.3               4                137.0
1990               89               916.5                16               518.5
1991 (as           27              1,027.0               5                141.8
of March)
Total            604              9,640.5                               1,730.6
1/ Shown graphically in Chart 1.



- 34 -
CHART 1
FIRE INCIDENTS AND AREA AFFECTED
Area afttcled
C Hal)
2200
2000-          .       .    .    .  Number of fire incidents Pantabangan
Area affected(ha) Pantabangan
i800        ................   Number of fire incidents Magat
----------------    Area affected(ha) Magat
1600 
1400-
1200.                                                                                                o
of ffre
1000                                                                                             -100
800                                              /   ,  "  ' '\\              /  > '        X    80
600-                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~60
600                                          /4 \ 
"\ U
2OCi-                                                                           -20~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
o;X<.>.., WS   . ......
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985    0986   1987   1988   1989   1990   19 91
Jan to mid-March
only.



