Document of                              E
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P- 2850-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
WATERSHED MANAGEMENT AND EROSION CONTROL PROJECT
June 10, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Philippine Pesos (P)
P 1    X  US$0.135
US$1     -  P 7.4
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 ha        m  2.47 acres
1 km        -  0.62 miles
1 sq km     -  0.386 sq mile
1 m         -  3.28 ft
I sq m      -  10.76 sq ft
1 cu m      -  35.31 cu ft
1 N cu m    -  810.7 ac ft
1 mm        =  0.039 in
1 kg        -  2.2 lb
1 cavan     -  50 kg
20 cavans    -  1 m ton
ABBREVIATIONS
BFD      -  Bureau of Forest Development
DBP      -  Development Bank of the Philippines
FPID     -  Forest Protection and Infrastructure
Division of BFD
LOI      -  Letter of Instruction
MNR      -  Ministry of Natural Resources
NEDA     -  National Economic Development Authority
NIA      -  National Irrigation Administration
PICDD    -  Public Information and Community Development Division
GOVERNM1ENT OF THE PHILIPPINES
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
WATERSHED MANAGEMENT AND EROSION CONTROL PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Republic of the Philippines
Amount:          $38 million equivalent
Terms:           20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
8.25% per annum
Project
Description:  The project addresses the problems of the watersheds of the
two largest multipurpose dams in the Philippines. It aims
to establish an economically viable and technically sound
system for preserving and enhancing the productive capacity
of the catchments and provides a permanent and improved
livelihood for the local population. Project components
include: (a) reforestation in the two watersheds; (b) con-
struction and maintenance of forest roads; (c) construction
of charcoal ovens; (d) provision of equipment and vehicles
for forest protection and fire prevention; (e) a feasibility
study of the Magat watershed; (f) pilot programs in range
management and smallholder agroforestry in the Magat water-
shed; (g) initiation of forest protection pilot programs in
two provinces in Northern and Central Luzon, and (h)
provision of consulting services for (a), (e), (f) and (g)
above.
In the Pantabangan area, the project would provide full-
time employment to 4,710 people by 1985, increasing to 6,780
people by 1995. Labor employment, together with revenue-
sharing, would increase per capita incomes of these families
from about $75 in 1979 to about $565 in 1990. In the Magat
area, the project would provide full-time employment to
about 1,200 people by 1985, increasing to 1,990 people in
1992. Employment provided by the project would increase the
per capita income of these families from an average of $100
in 1979 to about $275 by 1985. The forest protection pilot
component would improve the lives of about 300 forest
occupant families.
No major technical risks are anticipated as the project
includes a wide range of tree crops and end products to
minimize dependence on any single product. NIA has already
demonstrated substantial capabilities in the development of
nurseries, tree planting operations and protection of
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
seedlings from fire in both project watersheds.  Two factors
that could affect the success of the project are: the
ability of NIA's project management to adapt to a commercial
viewpoint, and the full involvement of the local population
in project implementation. These factors are being addressed
in the project by the provision of technical assistance to
strengthen the commercial and production aspects of the
project and to strengthen NIA's already good public informa-
tion services and by providing incentives for participation
of the local population in the project.
Estimated                                            Local  Foreign  Total
Cost: /1                                          --- ($ million)…
Plantation establishment               15.7     7.7    23.4
Forest roads construction               3.3     3.8      7.1
Forest roads maintenance                0.5     0.8      1.3
Forest protection & fire prevention  3.2         1.2     4.4
General administration                  4.7     3.6      8.3
NIA support services                    1.1       -      1.1
Magat feasibility study                 0.8      1.1     1.9
Magat pilot programs                    2.0      1.0     3.0
Forest protection pilot component    2.1        1.2      3.3
Total Base Cost                     33.4    20.4    53.8
Physical contingencies                  3.1     1.6      4.7
Expected  price increases              11.5     5.0    16.5
Total Project Cost                  48.0    27.0    75.0
Financing
Plan:                                          Local    Foreign    Total
------ ($ million) ------
IBRD                               11.0       27.0       38.0
Government                         37.0        -         37.0
48.0      27.0       75.0
/1 Excluding customs duties and taxes.



iii-
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987
----------------- ($ million) -----------
Annual              2.0   3.9   6.6   8.5   6.8   5.2   5.0
*                       Cumulative          2.0   5.9  12.5  21.0  27.8  33.0  38.0
Rate of Return: 18%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 2920-PH, dated June 10, 1980.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A WATERSHED MANAGEMENT AND EROSION CONTROL PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $38 million to
help finance a Watershed Management and Erosion Control Project. The loan
would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
8.25% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in July/August 1977
and its report, "The Philippines: Country Economic Memorandum" (No. 1765-PH
of October 26, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors under
PHL-77-2, dated October 27, 1977. An updating economic mission visited the
Philippines in May/June 1979, and its report, entitled "The Philippines:
Domestic and External Resources for Development" (No. 2674-PH), was
distributed to the Executive Directors under SecM79-822, dated November 16,
1979.
Macroeconomic Performance
3.        During the 1960s, the Philippine economy grew in real terms at an
annual rate of about 5-1/2%, but with more effective economic management the
rate of growth could have been higher. The pattern of growth was also
structurally unsatisfactory in a number of respects. The benefits of devel-
opment were distributed relatively unevenly, with respect to both regions
and income classes. While overall agricultural growth was reasonably
satisfactory, repeated foodgrain deficits were experienced. The growth of
productive employment opportunities failed to keep pace with the expansion
of the labor force. Low levels of taxation resulted in inadequate public
expenditure for necessary infrastructure and social services. Finally, poor
export performance combined with heavy import-dependence of domestic
industry led to chronic weakness in the balance of payments.
4.        During the 1970s there were significant improvements in economic
management. Public revenues have been increased substantially, public
sector implementation capacity has been strengthened, and the ratio of
public investment to GNP raised from 2% in the early 1970s to 5.5% in
1976-78. Private investment also increased, and the ratio of total fixed
/1 This section of the report is substantially the same as that of the
President's Report for the Rural Roads Improvement Project, approved
by the Board on May 29, 1980.



- 2 -
investment to GNP rose from 16% in the early 1970s to 25% in 1976-78. As a
consequence of higher levels of investment, the construction industry boomed.
Agriculture has performed well in response to the spread of irrigation and
higher yielding rice varieties, more favorable price policies, and some
improvements. in supporting services. Selective steps were taken to promote
nontraditional manufactured exports, which have grown rapidly. On the other
hand, the performance of that part of the manufacturing sector oriented to
the domestic market has remained only "fair" in a comparative sense and has
been inadequate in relation to the Philippines' need to generate productive
employment opportunities. The net effect of the above developments has been
acceleration in the trend GNP growth rate by one percentage point to 6-1/2%.
5.        An important constraint has been placed on Philippine development
options by the sharp deterioration of the country's terms of trade since
1975, stemming from the increase in oil prices, acceleration of international
inflation and depressed prices for some major Philippine commodity exports.
As a result, real national income has been growing more slowly than real
national product, and, with the higher level of investment, the dependence of
the economy on foreign savings has increased. Although the terms of trade
have recently stabilized, the current account deficit is still about 6% of
GNP.
Development Strategy
6.        The Government's development objectives and policies, which were
set out in a Five-Year Development Plan for the period 1978-82, call for
further acceleration of economic growth, first to 7% and then to 8%. The
development strategy focuses on an expansion of productive employment
opportunities at a rate of 3.6% per annum, reduction of income disparities,
greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, a strengthening of the balance
of payments and increased development of rural areas. In addition, the Plan
includes growth strategies for each of the country's thirteen regions. In
general, the Plan is an elaboration of the policy directions pursued by the
Government in recent years. It is also broadly consistent with the Bank's
assessment of priorities, although Plan projections for overall growth,
investment, manufacturing output, and exports are higher than Bank staff
estimates; the Government is now planning to reduce its growth targets in
light of the more difficult economic environment.
Agriculture and Rural Development
7.        In recent years the trend growth rate of the agricultural sector
has been about 5%, which by international standards is quite good. However,
variations among subsectors have been considerable. Due to the spread of
irrigation and high yielding varieties, irrigated rice production has
increased rapidly. The Philippines, once a chronic importer of rice, has
exported 300,000 tons of rice since 1977. With the completion of large
irrigation projects now under implementation, continued rice self-suffi-
ciency appears assured for the 1980s. With the achievement of self-
sufficiency in food grain production, development priorities are no longer
directed principally towards major irrigation projects, particularly since
growth in the other food producing subsectors has not been satisfactory.



- 3 -
The Government is now preparing a "Food and Nutrition Plan," a strategy for
accelerating food production and improving consumption with assistance from
Bank staff. In addition, the Government is developing locally adapted
technologies for improving yields of rainfed grains, particularly corn.
Productivity in the coconut sector is relatively low because of a large
number of overaged trees, but a major replanting program is scheduled for
the early 1980s when a sufficient number of high yielding variety seedlings
will become available.  Increasing pressure of population on the land and
inadequately controlled logging have led to soil erosion and deterioration
of some forest areas. The Plan calls for a major reforestation effort, but
this will require substantial upgrading-of Government administrative
capabilities in this area, development of new hill cropping technologies,
and resolution of difficult land tenure problems.
8.        As well as providing greater support for agricultural production,
the Government has substantially expanded programs such as water supply,
electrification, and health in rural areas. An agrarian reform was also
instituted in 1972 which provides for transfer of tenanted holdings of rice
and corn land in excess of seven hectares and enforcement of leasehold
instead of sharecropping on remaining tenanted holdings. As of July 1979,
about 75% of land transfer beneficiaries had received Certificates of Land
Transfer (the initial step in the process of establishing their claim to the
land), and about 18% had completed all steps necessary to begin amorti-
zation payments. About 67% of leasehold beneficiaries cultivating rice and
corn land had established written contracts with their landlords.
Industry
9.        Manufacturing has grown at an average rate of about 6-1/2% during
the 1970s. The greater part of the sector, oriented to the domestic market,
has been promoted by high tariff protection and an incentive system which has
favored the use of relatively capital-intensive production techniques.
Relatively little employment has been generated in relation to Philippine
factor endowments. Mtacro statistics such as the incremental capital-output
ratio suggest that the efficiency of investment has been low, and most manu-
facturing plants have located in the Greater Manila avea. Reforms of tariffs
and other industrial incentives to bring these into line with development
objectives are presently being considered by the Government.
10.       Beginning in 1970, selective measures have been introduced to
promote nontraditional manufactured exports, including various arrangements
to permit firms in selected export industries to import needed goods free of
duty. Entrepreneurs have responded to these opportunities, and receipts
from nontraditional manufactured exports increased from just over $100 mil-
lion in 1972 to an estimated $1.3 billion in 1979.
Population Growth, Employment and Income Distribution
11.       The 1979 population is estimated at 46.7 million.  The population
growth rate fell from 3.0% in the intercensal period 1960-70 to 2.8% in the
intercensal period 1970-75. The Philippines has an active family planning



- 4 -
program registering approximately 650,000 new acceptors per year. Although
the number of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program has faced
the increasingly difficult problem of reaching rural areas, the estimated
proportion of married women of reproductive age practicing family planning
increased from 15% in 1973 to 27% in 1978. However, by East isian
standards, this index is still relatively low.
12.       Employment increased by about 4.6% anually during 1973-78, a con-
siderable improvement over the historical growth rate of 2.4%, and in
recent years has kept pace with the rapid growth of the labor force. With
the exhaustion of most new land resources suitable for cultivation and the
exploitation of the most easily irrigable areas, industry will have to
provide employment for about one half of the new entrants to the labor force
in the next decade. Employment in manufacturing essentially stagnated
during 1970-74, but grew by 7% annually during 1975-77, resulting in part
from the growth of labor-intensive production for export. However, because
manufacturing's share of total employment is small, agriculture and services
still continue to function as residual sources of employment and accounted
for most of the increase in total employment.
13.       For historical reasons, income distribution has been highly skewed
in the Philippines, and there is a small elite which is conspicuously
wealthy. Due to a structural improvement in agriculture's terms of trade,
the growth of agricultural production, the decline in urban real wages
following the devaluation in 1970, and subsequent acceleration of interna-
tional inflation and the stagnation of industrial employment until 1975, the
ratio of the average rural income to the average urban income rose from 0.48
in 1971 to 0.57 in 1975. Nevertheless, the incidence of poverty remains
high, at 40-45%, in both rural and urban areas, and malnutrition is
widespread.
Public Finance
14.       The public sector has historically claimed a much smaller share
of national resources in the Philippines than in many other developing
countries. In the early 1970s, general government expenditure averaged only
12% of GNP; public investment was strikingly low at about 2% of GNP; and tax
revenues stood at 11% of GNP. Government expenditures were dominated by
general administration and social services, particularly education. This
situation had resulted from a variety of factors including difficulties in
raising tax revenue and weak implementation capacity in the public sector.
Since the early 1970s, the Government has taken steps to correct this



- 5 -
situation and has raised both the overall level of expenditures and the
shares going to economic services and public investment. By 1978, government
expenditures reached an estimated 16% of GNP, and public investment equaled
about 5.5% of GNP. This expansion of public expenditures has brought about
badly needed improvement in basic infrastructure particularly in transpor-
tation, power and irrigation, as well as the development of more effective
programs in the field of urban development, health and family planning.
15.       Recognizing that a large increase in tax revenues would be required
to finance expansion of the public investment program, the Government has
undertaken a program of tax reform to raise the needed revenues equitably
and efficiently. The overall tax ratio was raised by more than two percent-
age points between 1975 and 1978 through a series of new tax measures and
vigorous efforts to improve taxpayer compliance and collection performance.
However, the recent rapid growth of the public investment program has made
the Government's budget position quite tight in 1978-79. Continuation of a
strong revenue effort, both by the Government and the government corporations,
is necessary to allow for further expansion in infrastructure and social
services.
Private Savings and the Financial Sector
16.       Aggregate savings performance has improved during the last decade
and is comparable to that of other countries at a similar stage of economic
development. Gross domestic savings now finance about 85% of total invest-
ment, with the balance coming from foreign savings. In order to increase
the efficiency of financial markets in intermediating between savers and
investors, the Government has made significant improvements in financial
policy. Organized banking institutions have been strengthened. Interest
rates were realigned to encourage a greater flow of financial savings into
time and savings deposits relative to short-term deposit substitutes and to
reduce the spread between borrowing and lending rates. Further reforms are
required to increase the availability of long-term domestic currency
resources. Special credit programs have been adopted to expand lending to
the credit-short agricultural sector and rural areas and to serve the needs
of medium- and small-scale industries. A deterioration of loan recovery
rates was initially experienced by all government financial institutions and
credit programs. The Government has taken a number of steps to improve
collections; continued efforts in this direction are necessary to improve
financial discipline and ensure an adequate flow of credit to the productive
sectors without burdening the public finances.
17.       In response to the large balance of payments deficit in 1975 (see
para. 5 above), the Government adopted a strategy of accelerating export
growth both to hold the current account deficit about constant in absolute
terms, while letting it decline gradually relative to GNP, and to meet the
debt service payments on the higher level of external borrowing.



- 6-
External Trade and Capital Flows
18.        The current account initially behaved as anticipated - averaging
$1.0 billion per year but declining from 6.2% of GNP in 1976 to 4.1% of GNP
in 1977. However, since then actual developments have deviated from the
original scenario. First, the volume of commodity exports, particularly
sugar, has increased less rapidly than expected. Second, real import growth
has, on the other hand, been more rapid than anticipated, partly as a result
of a recovery of private investment and partly because of speculative
importing in 1979. Third, although prices for some commodity exports
(coconut products, copper) have increased substantially, the terms of trade
in 1979 were only marginally better than in 1976-77 due to the increased
price of petroleum imports and the acceleration of inflation in the OECD
countries which supply most of the Philippines' non-oil imports. The
combined effect has been a widening of the current account deficit to an
estimated $1.8 billion in 1979.
19.        In order to maintain growth and investment rates in the face of
the worsened external environment, major structural adjustment is necessary
to improve the balance of payments position. Initial steps have already
been taken with respect to export promotion, and major changes in trade,
industrial and financial policies are currently under consideration.
However, such adjustments will require a number of years to effect the
needed structural improvement in the balance of payments. The medium-term
outlook, therefore, is for high current account deficits although falling as a
percentage of GNP from 6% in 1980 to 4.7% in 1982.
20.       Net capital inflows doubled from the 1975 level of $580 million to
an estimated $1.2 billion in 1979, leaving an overall deficit of about $500
million. Most of the capital inflows came from medium- and long-term loans,
with about 40% from official sources. In 1980, a net capital inflow of at
least $1.8 billion will be required, increasing to $2.2 billion per year in
1981 and 1982. The ratio of debt service payments to exports of goods and
nonfactor services is expected to rise from an estimated 20% in 1979 to an
average level of 22% during the 1980-82 period, and to decline thereafter.
21.        In order to ensure that debt service obligations remain within
reasonable limits, the Government sought commitments of official assistance
of at least $1.0 billion in 1980 at the last meeting of the Consultative
Group for the Philippines, held in Washington, D.C. in December 1979. The
Group endorsed the Government's request.
22.        Satisfactory progress has been made in domestic resource mobiliza-
tion (paras. 15-16). However, because of the increase in the Philippines'
external financing requirements arising from the deterioration in the terms of
trade, and the fact that many of the projects planned for official assistance
have low foreign exchange costs, the necessary resource transfer can be
achieved only with some financing of local costs of projects, or through non-
project lending.



- 7 -
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS /1
23.       As of April 30, 1980, the Philippines had received 68 Bank loans
(of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $2,181.9 million and
six IDA credits amounting to $122.2 million. At that date, IFC investments
totalled $93.8 million. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed
and outstanding is currently about 13% and its share in total debt service is
about 6%. These ratios are expected to be about 23% and 16%, respectively, by
1985. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC invest-
ments as of April 30, 1980, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
24.       The Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all sectors of the
economy with particular emphasis on agriculture and basic infrastructure,
which have each accounted for about one third of total Bank Group lending. In
agriculture, emphasis has been given to expanding the irrigation system to
increase food production and to credit programs to support foodgrain produc-
tion and processing and livestock, fisheries and tree farming production.
Support has also been provided for integrated rural development projects in
low income areas. The Bank Group has also provided large amounts of assis-
tance in developing power and transportation to provide the basis for future
growth of the productive sectors. Substantial improvement in basic infra-
structure has been needed to compensate for many years of past neglect due to
low levels of public expenditure. In the industrial sector, the Bank's main
thrust has been on strengthening the capacity of public and private develop-
ment finance institutions with increasing attention given to meeting the needs
of small and medium industries.
25.       There has been a marked improvement in the execution of Bank-
financed projects in the last five years compared with the experience in the
late 1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage of peso
counterpart funds and weak administration. Almost all ongoing projects are
now being implemented reasonably well and the supervision and project comple-
tion reports indicate that the economic benefits for most projects are likely
to be in line with appraisal estimates. However, disbursements have been
somewhat less than might be expected for a country having a relatively high
level of management capability, and the Government has recently adopted a
number of measures to expedite implementation of the public investment program
including more flexible budgetary and contract review procedures.
26.       As noted in Part I of this report, the Government's Five-Year
Development Plan highlights a strategy which focuses on the expansion of
production and employment in agriculture and industry, reduction in income
disparities, greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, and increased
development in rural areas. The Bank's future lending program has been
designed to assist the Government in achieving these objectives. Agricultural
and rural development will account for the largest part of future lending
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Rural Roads Improvement Project, approved
by the Board on May 29, 1980.



- 8 -
with continued emphasis on food production and programs to increase the
productivity and incomes of small farmers. However, the program provides for
several needed new initiatives, including support for agricultural diversi-
fication through a Commercial Crops project and for small fishermen through
a National Fisheries project. Assistance will also be provide& for
integrated rural development projects which will support the Government's
objectives of redressing regional imbalances in income. Substantial
assistance will also continue to be given to industry with considerable
attention given to policy reform and to expanding the development of labor-
intensive, small and medium industries outside of the Metropolitan Manila
area.  A significant share of Bank lending will continue to be directed to
social sector projects to upgrade living conditions of low income people in
urban areas, improve the quality of education and expand the Government's
population program in rural areas. While the Bank Group will continue to
provide support for transportation and power infrastructure needed to
support the Philippine development effort, the share of Bank lending for
these sectors will decline somewhat in the years ahead primarily because
alternative sources of financing are available to finance a large part of
the power generation program.
27.       This is the first loan to the Philippines to be presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year. A loan for a livestock/fisheries
project and a program loan to support structural adjustment in the indus-
trial sector have been appraised and are scheduled for Board presentation in
the next several months.
PART III - THE SECTOR
28.       Of the 12.0 million ha of forest land in the Philippines, almost
5.0 million ha have already been denuded. Uncontrolled logging is accompanied
by the activities of shifting cultivators who frequently move into logged-
over areas, cut existing vegetation, and plant subsistence crops for one
to three seasons before moving on. Such areas are quickly covered with
cogon grass (Imperata cylindrica) which represses regeneration of tree
growth and adds to fire hazards. Each year some 200,000 ha of forests are
logged over; reforestation by the Bureau of Forest Development (BFD)
compensates for only about 5% of the forest cut. Furthermore, much of the
BFD reforestation effort has concentrated on restoring ground cover with
little attention being given to planting of species for ultimate commercial
use. Also, follow-up maintenance of reforested areas is lacking, which
frequently results in destruction by weeds, animals or fire.



- 9 -
29.       The Philippines is a substantial exporter of forest products, which
have averaged approximately $300 million of exports over the years 1972 to
1978, and accounted, in 1978, for approximately 10% of total exports. As
the population grows, the pressure on forest resources in the Philippines
will increase. Already imports of pulp, mainly long fiber, are almost
100,000 tons annually. Bank projections indicate that by 1985 the
Philippines' annual demand for paper and paperboard would double from the
current level of 400,000 tons to 700,000-800,000 tons. Demands for fuelwood
are growing rapidly due to the rise in oil prices as well as continuous
population pressure. Although much of the fuelwood comes from noncommercial
forests, continuous fuelwood cutting is depleting resources and contributing
to serious siltation and erosion problems.
30.       The Government is aware of the problems of forest destruction and
in 1975 Presidential Decree 705 was issued which provides for acceleration
of land surveys and classification, protection and rehabilitation of forest
lands, rationalization of the wood processing industry and strengthening of
forestry research. The Government has recently established a Presidential
Council for Ecosystem Management, which includes representatives from the
main Government agencies concerned, to provide policy leadership for a more
active forestry development program and to stimulate popular awareness of the
need to preserve forestry resources. The success of the Government's program
will depend on efforts to improve regulation of logging in existing forests,
the implementation of well planned reforestation efforts, and commercial
tree farming and woodlot development. The ability of the Government to
implement these programs will, in turn, depend on substantial strengthening
of the Bureau of Forest Development (BFD) in the Ministry of Natural
Resources and of other Government agencies concerned with forest development
and rehabilitation.
31.       A total of approximately 1.4 million ha of the denuded land is
located in watersheds or catchments which are sources of water to important
irrigation, power and water supply dams. The potential threat to the
economic life of these facilities as a result of erosion and sedimentation
has caused considerable concern to the Government. The people living in
these watersheds have moved there due to population pressure and scarcity of
employment in the lowlands. They are extremely poor and survive on shifting
hillside agriculture and occasional labor income from Government public
works. Continuous degradation of the watersheds is reducing the productive
capacity of the land and its ability to provide a means of livelihood to the
people. Protection of land resources in the watersheds and increasing the
incomes of the disadvantaged resident population is an important Government
objective.
32.       The very severe damage to denuded watersheds caused by typhoon
Didang in 1976 focused public attention on the urgent need for watershed
protection. Tree planting campaigns were initiated throughout the country
and in 1977 a Presidential Decree was issued requiring every citizen to
plant 12 trees annually. The Ministry of Natural Resources, through
BFD, is mainly responsible for implementation of these ambitious programs.
Recognizing the magnitude of the problem and the burden placed on the



- 10 -
limited implementation capacity of BFD, the Government took another important
step by declaring, in 1978, a number of watersheds serving multipurpose dams
to be critical, banning all logging, and entrusting the immediate management
of the catchments to a number of designated lead agencies. Excellent
legislation exists today to manage and control logging, grazing and undertake
reforestation. However, this legislation has rarely been enforced. Reforest-
ation of watersheds is presently being done by a number of Government
agencies through a series of small projects. Most of these efforts have
concentrated on the short-term objective of restoring ground cover, without
any attention to the need to develop a long-term, self-supporting system of
land use for the watershed. The existing tree planting campaigns, by
offering employment only for planting, do not give the local population a
stake in the survival of the trees.
Experience with Forest Lending
33.       This would be the first Bank-assisted watershed management project
in the Philippines and the third Bank-assisted project involving tree
farming and forestry. The first one was the Pilot Tree Farming Project (Loan
998-PH) which provided supervised credit for tree farming to smallholders
through the Development Bank of the Philippines (DPB) for the cultivation
of a fast growing pine species (Albizzia falcataria) for pulpwood. Based on
the success of the pilot project, the Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry
Project (Loan 1506-PH) was initiated in 1978. Besides providing supervised
credit for tree farming to smallholders in Mindanao, the Visayas and Northern
Luzon, it provided for the commercial reforestation of some areas by BFD
in Abra province. While the pilot project was successfully completed in
1979, the tree farming component of the latter project has lagged behind
schedule. The main reason for this has been the slow rate of smallholder
participation due to problems of obtaining land certificates for collateral
and farmer reluctance through lack of experience. However, DBP remains
committed to the project and is working on ways to overcome the problems and
to stimulate progress. The BFD plantation component has been delayed
through lack of Government funds, though the delay is expected to be made up
to a large extent during 1980.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
34.       An erosion control study of the Pantabangan and Magat watersheds
was included in Loan 1227-PH for the Chico River Irrigation Project in March
1976. The study was carried out by the National Irrigation Administration
(NIA) with the help of consultants. The objective of the study was to
prepare a watershed management and erosion control project for both water-



- 11 -
sheds. This study provided the basis for formulation of the project. The
proposed project envisages three main lines of approach to the problems of
denudation and degradation of the watersheds in the Philippines.  In the
compact, relatively small and well-defined Pantabangan watershed, the project
would utilize the existing capabilities of NIA to establish an economically
viable and technically sound system for preserving and enhancing the
productive capacity of the catchment, in association with the local inhabi-
tants, firstly as paid laborers and ultimately as shareholders in a joint
agro-forestry venture. In the much larger, more variegated and complex
Magat watershed the project would provide for a multidisciplinary feasibility
study of the catchment under the aegis of the National Economic Development
Authority (NEDA) to produce an area development plan for the watershed.
Concurrent with the study would be pilot range management and smallholder
agro-forestry programs, together with an NIA-operated agro-forestry
plantation near the proposed Magat reservoir. The third line of approach
would be provided by the BFD-implemented forest protection pilot component
in which forestry occupancy management, forest guarding, forest fire control
and watershed rehabilitation would be dealt with as an integrated whole in
the trial areas in Northern and Central Luzon. This component is designed
to build up BFD's implementation capacity so that it can gradually expand
the approach developed in this pilot effort to other areas of the country.
35.       The proposed project was appraised in June 1979.  Negotiations
were held in Washington in April 1980 with a Philippine delegation led by
the Honorable Alfredo L. Juinio, Minister of Public Works. A Staff
Appraisal Report, entitled "Philippines - Watershed Management and Erosion
Control Project" (No. 1920-PH, dated June 10, 1980), is being distributed
separately.  Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
The Proiect Area
36.       Pantabangan Watershed.  The watershed is situated on the island of
Luzon and has an area of about 82,900 ha, excluding the 8,000 ha of the
Pantabangan reservoir. The Pantabangan Dam, financed by a Bank loan (No.
637-PH), is in the southwest corner of the watershed, and is connected to
San Jose and Cabanatuan cities by all-weather gravel roads, with onward
connection to Manila by the cement-concrete surfaced Philippines-Japan
Friendship Highway. The population in the watershed is substantially below
the national average and the per capita income is 12.5% of the national per
capita income. According to surveys conducted by NIA in 1979, about 44% of
households obtain their income primarily from farming and fishing, about
35% from government labor work on NIA and BFD reforestation programs and the
balance from seasonal work, industry and service jobs. The average per
capita income in 1979 was $75, with the great majority of households having
average annual per capita incomes well below the absolute poverty level of
$200. The average farm size is 1.9 ha with no appreciable difference in
average sizes between irrigated and rainfed farms. Except for a few cattle
ranches in the area, livestock is of the backyard type which roam freely to



- 12 -
forage. The overall livestock numbers are not large enough to cause severe
overgrazing.
37.       The upper reaches of the watershed are mountainous and have rugged
highlands with skyline elevations up to 1,100 m above sea level. The lower
reaches are characterized by broad ridges interspersed with wide valleys.
The agricultural land is concentrated in the alluvial valleys of the main
rivers and streams draining the watershed. The three major land uses are
forests, grasses and crops. The forest area of 36,900 ha, or 44% of the
watershed, consists of about 23,700 ha of primary forest and about 13,200 ha
of secondary forest. The area of primary forest has been depleted
considerably in recent years due to excessive logging. This loss of forest
cover, coupled with frequent fires, has resulted in erosion of former
forest lands. Grasslands, which consist mainly of cogon grass, comprise
about 43% of the area and cropland about 12% of the watershed. Diversified
farming is generally found in the higher elevations, and is usually benched
and devoted to vegetable growing. Kaingin, or shifting agriculture, affects
only 2,300 ha or 3% of the watershed area and involves the clearing of
sloping land by cutting and burning for temporary cultivation. When the
fertility of the soil is exhausted or the soil eroded, the cultivators move
to another site and repeat the same cycle. Except for low land rice and
residential areas, the land is owned by the Government.
38.       NIA has successfully planted and maintained a number of different
species on about 2,000 ha of the watershed area over the past two years.
The other major reforestation effort being conducted is by the Bureau of
Forest Development under the Philippines-Japan Technical Cooperation
Project which will involve the construction of two nurseries, reforestation
of about 8,100 ha and construction of about 125 km of forest roads over the
period 1977-82. It also involves the construction of a center for the
training of forestry technical staff.
39.       Magat Watershed.  The Magat watershed, with an area of about
414,300 ha, not including the proposed reservoir of 4,900 ha, is much
larger and more complex than the Pantabangan watershed. It is located in
Northern Luzon and encompasses three principal mountain systems. The
proposed Magat dam, financed by a Bank loan (1567-PH), is at the eastern
fringe of the mountains in the west. The terrain in the watershed varies
from broad, flat cultivated plains along the main river valleys to high
mountain ridges under primary forest and reaching elevations in excess of
1,000 m above sea level. At 70 people per sq km, population density in the
watershed is twice as high as at Pantabangan, although only about half the
national average. Cultivation is limited to upland farming of open patches
from logged-over forests, and abandoned kaingin areas from the grassland
portions of the area. Almost 95% of the people in the area get their
primary source of income from farming and the rest from government labor
work. The average per capita income in 1979 was $100, with the great
majority of households having average annual per capita income well below
the absolute poverty level of $200.



- 13 -
40.       Severe erosion has occurred on approximately 83% of the watershed
due to fire, over-grazing, uncontrolled logging, shifting cultivation, and
high intensity rainfall on unprotected land. The forest areas of the
watershed have been subjected to excessive logging, carried out with little
attention to conservation principles. Ranchers practice continuous grazing
and uncontrolled burning. In many cases land with slopes in excess of 50%
is being grazed and much of the soil has been removed by erosion. The
irrigated and rainfed rice land is found on the alluvial flats bordering
the Magat river, while the terraced rice land is located on the steep
hillsides in the northern part of the watershed. Shifting cultivation is
found on the steep slopes along the rim of the watershed.
Principal Project Features
41.       The project proposed for Bank financing would include:
(a) reforestation of about 24,600 ha in the Pantabangan watershed and
pilot program of about 7,500 ha in the Magat watershed with
agro-forestry and timber crops, including the construction of
nurseries;
(b) construction and maintenance of about 350 km of forest roads in
Pantabangan and about 65 km in Magat;
(c) construction of charcoal ovens for conversion of fuelwood to
charcoal in both the watersheds;
(d) provision of buildings, equipment and vehicles for project imple-
mentation, forest protection and fire prevention in both areas;
(e) consulting services for assistance in installing a system of
commercial accounting, reforestation and marketing operations, for
the establishment of revenue and profit-sharing procedures, and for
the study of spinning off the project as a subsidiary of NIA;
(f) consulting services to carry out a feasibility study for integrated
development of the Magat watershed;
(g) implementation of pilot programs in range management and smallholder
agroforestry both in the Magat watershed; and
(h) initiation of an integrated forest protection pilot program
by the Bureau of Forest Development in Nueva Vizcaya province in
the Magat watershed and in Bulacan province in Central Luzon.
42.       Reforestation.  About 24,600 ha of grassland and unbenched agri-
cultural land in the Pantabangan watershed would be planted with a mix of
forest and agro-forest species which would provide both a quick financial



- 14 -
return from products such as leafmeal, charcoal, fruits and nuts, and a
long-term return from timber. Species were chosen considering factors such
as site suitability and adaptability, erosion control capability, market-
ability, magnitude and timing of financial returns, employment generation,
and fire riJr.. About 1,600 ha would be planted in 1980 and about 3,500 ha
annually thereafter from 1981 to 1987. The peak seedling requirement of
8.5 million seedlings annually would be met by NIA's existing nurseries
(annual capacity 6 million) and a new nursery with an annual capacity of
about 3 million seedlings.
43.       About 7,500 ha of steep grassland in the Magat watershed would also
be planted with a mix of agroforestry and timber species. The main objective
would be to illustrate on a pilot scale the viability of a reforestation
program in the Magat watershed. About 1,500 ha would be planted each year
between 1981 and 1985. The project would also include a nursery to meet the
peak annual requirement of 3.5 million seedlings.
44.       Charcoal Ovens.  Fuelwood would be converted to charcoal in the
project area and then sold to middlemen. The project would provide for 15
charcoal centers in Pantabangan and 6 in lIagat, strategically located so as to
reduce transport costs and to provide easy access to water to minimize fire
risks. A charcoal center would consist of nine ovens, of the Brazilian
beehive type, each with a capacity of 50 cu m.
45.       Forest Road Construction and Fire Protection.  About 95 km of
primary forest roads and about 250 km of secondary roads would be constructed
in Pantabangan, and about 40 km of primary forest roads and 25 km of secondary
forest roads would be built in Magat. The roads would provide access for
workers and materials during establishment, maintenance, protection and
harvesting operations. The roads would be 4 m wide and gravel surfaced.
Provision would be made for equipment and workshop facilities for the mainten-
ance of the roads. The project would also provide for a forest protection
and fire control system which would consist of mobile patrol and fire suppres-
sion crews, fire stations, look-out towers, communication equipment, fire-
fighting equipment and construction of fire lanes. In the case of
Pantabangan, the fire control system would be capable of dealing with the
whole watershed, including areas reforested under the Philippines-Japan
Technical Cooperation Project.
46.       Magat Feasibility Study and Pilot Programs.  The proposed project
would include provisions for a feasibility study of the Magat catchment
leading to a plan for the development of selected critical subcatchments of
the watershed. The study would identify the critical subwatersheds to be
given priority for development. It would also include grass species trials,
grazing trials on improved and natural ranges, rotational grazing trials and a
census of the animal population, to provide a basis for a range management
program adaptable to the Magat catchment. Range management and smallholder
agroforestry pilot programs would be implemented in the watershed concurrently
with the studies and would assist in assessing the viability of various
approaches to solving the problems of the watershed. The project would
provide for consulting services, vehicles and equipment for the studies.
The studies would begin in early 1981 and be completed at the end of 1983.



- 15 -
47.       Forest Protection Pilot Component.  The project would provide for
the detailed planning and implementation by the Bureau of Forest Development
(BFD) of a three-year pilot operation comprising forest occupancy (kaingin)
management, forest guarding, forest fire control, and watershed rehabilita-
tion. The component would take place in two trial areas and would comprise
the settling of 300 forest occupant families including improvement of their
farms and provision of social services; guarding 127,000 ha of forest land;
fire control over 27,000 ha of forest area prone to annual fires; vegetative
rehabilitation of about 800 ha of denuded, erodable land and construction of
soil erosion control measures in critical locations; construction and
maintenance of 20 km of roads and a network of 220 km of access trails; and
provisions for buildings, vehicles and equipment. Provision would be made for
consultants to help plan and implement the project and to develop and install
an intensive monitoring and evaluation system. Preparation of a detailed plan
of operations and implementation schedule would be a condition of loan
disbursement for this component of the project (Schedule 1, para. 4(b)).(
Project Cost and Financing
48.       A reasonable time frame for the definition of the Bank project
would be six years since (a) the bulk of plantation establishment would be
accomplished over this period; (b) such a period would provide an opportunity
for the Bank to review decisions regarding processing and profit-sharing which
would have to be taken by the Government towards the end of the six-year
period. Therefore, the project represents the initial six years of the
program costing about $75.0 million, of which $27.0 million or 36% is foreign
exchange. The Government exempts NIA and BFD from paying taxes or duties for
equipment, materials and services procured under foreign-assisted projects, so
all costs exclude such taxes. A physical contingency of 15% was used for the
roads due to the difficult and hilly terrain, while 10% was used for the rest
of the works. Costs due to expected price increases over the implementation
period amount to about 28% of the total base cost plus physical contingencies.
These are based on the following annual rates of price escalation assumed for
the equipment and civil works: local costs 16% in 1980, 10% in 1981, and 7%
in 1982-85; foreign exchange costs 10.5% in 1980, 9% in 1981, 8% in 1982 and
7% in 1983-85.
49.       The proposed loan of $38.0 million would finance 50% of total
project costs and would cover the $27.0 million of foreign exchange costs
and $11.0 million of local costs. Justification for local cost financing
is contained in para. 22 of this report. The remaining P 275.0 million
($37.0 million) would be provided by the Government from annual budget
appropriations.
Procurement
50.       Equipment, vehicles and spare parts costing about $9.1 million
would be procured after international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank Guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of
imported goods, or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to
local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Local procurement practices



- 16 -
are appropriate for off-the-shelf items costing less than $20,000 each
because the advantages of international competitive bidding would be clearly
outweighed by the administrative costs involved. The total cost of such
items for all components of the project would not exceed $500,000.
51.       Construction of about 160 km of forest roads totalling about
$4.0 million, and civil works totalling $2.3 million, are not suitable for
international competitive bidding since the works are scattered and small in
size. Therefore, these would be carried out by contract under competitive
bidding in accordance with local procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
In order to facilitate construction of forest access roads in relatively
inaccessible areas not attractive to contractors, 250 km of the roads in
Pantabangan would be carried out by force account, amounting to about $2.5
million excluding equipment.
Disbursements
52.       Disbursements would be made at a rate of 100% of the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported equipment or 100% of the ex-factory cost
of locally manufactured goods and 65% for imported goods procured locally.
Disbursements for civil works would be 45% of certified monthly progress
payments or expenditures for contract work. Disbursements for force account
work in the construction of roads, plantation establishment, maintenance of
roads, and forest protection and fire control, amounting to $30.6 million,
would be made against certificates of expenditures, the documentation for
which would show the quantities of major items of work accomplished, and the
expenditure would be based on agreed unit rates. NIA and BFD would submit a
detailed unit rate analysis with supporting documents for Bank review before
December 31, 1980, and whenever any change in the unit rate is desired. For
the NIA component, disbursement for minor contracts (less than P 1 million)
would also be made against certificates of expenditure based on actual
payments made to the contractors. All documentation regarding force account
and expenditure under minor contracts would be made available for inspection
by the Bank's supervision missions. NIA has the capability of providing
staff and instituting accounting procedures to provide such documentation in
a satisfactory manner as it has done in other Bank-assisted projects. Con-
sulting services provided in the project would aid NIA in the implementation
of such procedures. For the cost of consultant services, disbursements
would be at a rate of 100% of total costs. It is expected that disburse-
ments would be completed by December 31, 1987, approximately one year after
completion of the project.
Environmental Effects
53.       The project is expected to have wholly beneficial effects on the
environment through limitation of uncontrolled burning, reduction of erosion
of the watersheds, minimization of flash flooding and enhancement of the
productive capacity of the land.



- 17 -
Organization and Management
54.       NIA was established in 1964 to investigate, study, improve, con-
struct and administer all national irrigation systems. A 1974 Presidential
Decree further widened NIA's scope by giving it "broader powers and authority
to undertake concomitant projects such as flood control, drainage, land
reclamation, hydraulic power development, domestic water supply, road or
highway construction, reforestation and projects to maintain ecological
balance, in coordination with the agencies concerned". The Government
finances NIA through the sale of bonds or from appropriations. The agency
is presided over by a board of directors; the Administrator, who is appointed
by the President of the Philippines, is responsible for operations and manage-
ment. In addition to NIA's engineering capability, it has gained considerable
experience in tree nursery and planting operations over the past few years
in both the Pantabangan and Magat catchments.
55.       By Letter of Instruction (LOI) No. 1002 of March 20, 1980, the
National Irrigation Administration was given the authority to manage, protect
and rehabilitate the areas of the Pantabangan and Magat watersheds included
in the project. The LOI also gave NIA the authority to harvest timber and
agro-forestry products from the project area.
56.       Responsibility for implementation of the reforestation in
Pantabangan and Magat would rest with the Project Director who would report
to the NIA Assistant Administrator for Project Development and Implementa-
tion. Under the Project Director would be two Resident Managers, one at
Pantabangan and one at Magat. The Project Director would be assisted by a
small managerial and technical staff. The Resident Managers would have
under them Plantation, Maintenance and Transportation and Processing
divisions. NIA has appointed a suitably qualified senior agricultural
engineer as Project Director. Assurances were obtained that NIA would
afford the Bank an opportunity to comment on any new appointment to the post
during the period of project implementation (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
57.       The project is profit-oriented, and would therefore be operated
on a commercial basis. A commercial accounting system would be installed
by December 31, 1980, and detailed records of assets, costs and revenues by
product would be maintained (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The project would attempt to ensure the active cooperation of the inhabitants
of the Pantabangan watershed by giving them permanent and better livelihoods.
Previous tree planting campaigns, by offering employment only for planting,
have, in fact, provided an incentive for destruction of the seedlings to
create more employment. In order to give the people of Pantabangan a stake
in the survival of the seedlings, the project would not only provide them
with employment but it would associate them with the financial profits of
the project. Initially a revenue-sharing scheme would be adopted since the
project is not expected to generate a profit until the eighth year of
operation. A certain percentage or a fixed amount of gross revenues would



- 18 -
be distributed to the employees starting in the third year of operation.
Such an early distribution of revenues is important to gain the confidence
of the people in the area and to impress on them the personal advantages to
be derived by making the project successful. An assurance was obtained
that, by December 31, 1982, NIA would submit for Bank review and then
implement, by June 30, 1983, a plan for sharing project revenues with
employees of the Pantabangan project area based on annual labor input
(Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). NIA would prepare, by June 30,
1985, a profit-sharing scheme to take the place of the revenue-sharing
scheme. The profit-sharing scheme would take into consideration a fair
share for the employees and a fair return on the capital investment of NIA.
An assurance was obtained that NIA would implement such a profit-sharing
scheme after review by the Bank before December 31, 1985 (Section 4.06 of
the draft Loan Agreement). In addition to the individual incentive schemes,
communal incentives would be provided by assigning a portion of the revenues
or profits to the villages for projects such as scholarships, communal water
supplies, playgrounds, etc. to be chosen by the communities in consultation
with NIA. The size of communal incentives would depend on the forest
protection and fire prevention performance of the various communities.
58.        The project organization would have a Public Information and
Community Development Division reporting directly to the Project Director.
The division would inform the people about the project, especially the aspects
of employment, profit-sharing, the need to protect the reforested areas, and
the substantial benefits of the project to the people. The division would
also help the communities define the type of projects which they would wish to
carry out with the portion of profits assigned to communal benefits.
59.        A reforestation program and construction of a training facility are
being undertaken by BFD in one section of the Pantabangan watershed under the
provisions of the Philippines-Japan Technical Cooperation Project. By
December 31, 1980, NIA and BFD would sign a memorandum of understanding
defining their respective roles in the Pantabangan watershed (Section 3.07
of the draft Loan Agreement). The memorandum would pay particular attention
to setting out: (a) BFD's role in terms of providing technical services for
nursery and planting operations; (b) NIA's access to the training facilities
and programs carried out by BFD in the watershed; and (c) NIA's role in
providing a joint fire protection service for both the proposed project and
the BFD project.
60.        The Forest Protection and Infrastructure Division (FPID) of BFD
would be responsible for the detailed planning and implementation of the
Forest Protection Pilot Component. It would be carried out within the
framework of BFD's existing district, regional and central organization. The
Chief of FPID would oversee project implementation with the assistance of a
small project monitoring and evaluation group, which would have to be estab-
lished. Day to day implementation would be the responsibility of the two
District Foresters concerned, with the respective Regional Directors fulfill-
ing administrative roles. In its third year the component would employ
25 professionals, mostly foresters, about 80 technician level staff and about



- 19 -
150 permanently employed labor. Most of the required professionals and
technicians are already employed by BFD in the regional or district offices
and would only need to be reassigned, although some new recruitment would be
necessary. About 16 specialists from other Government agencies, including
possibly the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP), would be called upon
to make their services available to the settled forest occupants.
61.        The project would provide consulting services to assist NIA in: (a)
the installation of a commercial management and information accounting system;
(b) the design and installation of a revenue-sharing scheme initially, and a
profit-sharing scheme later; (c) the spinning off of the project as a
subsidiary of NIA and the design of an equity-sharing scheme which would
allow the employees to own shares in it; and (d) nursery, planting and
marketing operations for both watersheds. It is estimated that about 170
man-months of local consulting services would be required for this. For the
preparation of the Magat Watershed Feasibility Study, it is estimated that
about 150 man-months of local and about 100 man-months of expatriate consult-
ing services would be required. Consulting services would also be provided to
assist BFD in (a) detailed planning of the Forest Protection Pilot Component;
(b) monitoring of the implementation of the component; and (c) special
evaluation studies to prepare a follow-up project. It is estimated that about
53 man-months of local and 7 man-months of expatriate consulting services
would be required. The local consulting services are expected to cost about
$3,500 per man-month and expatriate services about $10,000 per man-month. The
latter overall cost per man-month would consist of a billing rate (including
home office overhead) of $8,000 per man-month, international travel expenses
of $500 per man-month, and local expenses of $1,500 per man-month. All
consultants engaged under the project would be employed under terms of
reference and under conditions acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.02 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Project Benefits and Justification
62.        The project would be the first major Government attempt to manage
the watersheds of the two largest multipurpose dams in the country. In the
case of the Pantabangan watershed, the project would establish an economically
viable and technically sound system for preserving and enhancing the produc-
tive capacity of the catchment, provide a permanent and improved livelihood
for the local population, demonstrate a system of watershed management which
could be replicated in other watersheds and would also stop the presently
rapid rate of destruction of the land resources in the catchment. In the case
of the large and complex Magat watershed, the additional studies and pilot
projects would examine the viability of reforestation, range management and
smallholder agroforestry approaches to solving the watershed's problems. The
reforestation program of a steep area immediately adjacent to the proposed
Magat dam site would also reduce the rate of erosion and sedimentation in the
reservoir. The forest protection pilot component would cover an area of about
127,000 ha and help BFD in the development of a comprehensive forest protec-
tion system which could be replicated on a larger scale in other areas.



- 20 -
63.       At full development, the project would provide an average annual
production of about 45,000 tons of leafmeal, 30,200 tons of charcoal, 58,700
tons of mango, 11,250 tons of cashew, 27,100 tons of short-fiber pulpwood
and 24,500 tons of long-fiber pulpwood. In addition, the project would
produce about 6,670 cu m of Yemane timber and about 13,800 - m of pine
timber annually, and, at the end of 40 years, the hardwood species would
yield about 2.0 million cu m. The charcoal and pulpwood production would
represent an annual import savings of about $7.3 million. Leafmeal and
cashew would have an annual export value of $10.0 million, and the hardwoods
would have an export value of about $755 million.
64.       The Pantabangan project area would provide sustained full-time
work for about 4,710 people by 1985, increasing to 5,685 people by 1990 and
peaking to 6,780 people by 1995. The total population in the Pantabangan
project area in 1975 was about 25,370. In addition to employment for
laborers, the project would provide work for about 400 salaried personnel.
The people in the watershed are extremely poor and survive on subsistence
agriculture and occasional income from Government public works. Their average
per capita income in 1979 was $75, about 37.5% of the absolute poverty level
and 12.5% of the per capita GNP of $600. With the project, labor employment
would increase per capita incomes of these families to $300. Through revenue
or profit sharing the people would increase their incomes further. Assuming
that a minimum fair return on NIA's investment would be 10%, about 20% of the
annual revenues could be passed to the employees. Sharing 20% of the revenues
would increase incomes of the employed labor to $375 per capita by 1985, which
would be over the absolute poverty level and 49% of the 1985 projected per
capita GNP of $765.  In 1990, their incomes would increase to $565, about 58%
of the 1990 per capita GNP of $975. The comparisons indicate that the project
would help narrow the income gap between the project area and other parts of
the country, and between urban and rural areas.
65.       In the Magat project area, the project would provide full-time
employment to about 1,200 people by 1985 and about 1,990 people in 1992. The
total population in the Magat project area in 1975 was about 293,000. The
people in areas adjacent to the project area who would be employed by the
project are poor, with average per capita incomes of about $100 and with 85%
of the households having per capita incomes of less than $155. The project
would increase the per capita incomes to about $275 from steady employment by
1985. The forest protection pilot component would permanently improve the
lives of about 300 forest occupant families.
66.       Discounting all project costs and benefits expressed in financial
prices over a 40-year evaluation period, the financial rate of return for
each subproject and the project as a whole is 14%. With project costs and
benefits expressed in border prices, the economic rate of return is 18% for
Pantabangan, 19% for Magat and 18% for the total project. The economic rate
of return for individual products ranged from 8% to 33% in Pantabangan and
from 12% to 26% in Magat. At a discount rate of 10%, the economic net present
value of this investment is $56.3 million. Sensitivity analyses showed that
for the economic rate of return to drop to 10%, the wage rate would have to
increase by 250% in Pantabangan or 370% in Magat, the costs would have to
increase by 65%, or revenues would have to decrease by 40%.



- 21 -
Project Risks
67.       No major technical risks are anticipated, as a wide range of tree
crops and end products are included in the project to minimize the dependence
on any single product. NIA has already demonstrated substantial capabilities
in the development of nurseries, tree planting operations and protection of
the seedlings from fire in both project watersheds. Success of the project
would depend mainly on two factors: the ability of the NIA project management
to adapt to a commercial viewpoint and the full involvement of the local
population in project implementation. In order to reduce the management risk,
provision is made for substantial consultant assistance to strengthen the
commercial and production aspects of the project. Increased motivation of the
resident population would be provided for by strengthening NIA's already good
public information services and by introducing a series of personal and
communal incentives to participation in the project, additional to very
significant employment benefits. Risks associated with weaknesses in the
administrative capacity of the Bureau of Forest Development (BFD) are being
reduced by the establishment of a detailed operation plan and an intensive
monitoring and evaluation mechanism for the Forest Protection Pilot component.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTEORITY
68.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately.
69.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The following event of suspension has been added, namely, any
change in Letter of Instruction No. 1002, of March 20, 1980, that would have
a material and adverse effect on the execution of the project (Section
5.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 10, 1980



- 22 -                                     ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLZ 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICAMRS DATA SKEET
DREPBECE CWPS (ADJU STD AAGES
LAND AUUA (THOUSAND SO. U1.) I1, OT - MOST RECENT ESTINATE
TOTAL           300.0                                                SAN         SAKS    NM  RIGI
AGRICULTURAL     86.7                               1ST RSCENT    GXOGRAPIIC   mICON1       INCOIE
1960  A    1970 A EBTISIE  A      RCGION h   C OUP d   COD1P I
GNP PU CWPA (OSS)                  140.0       230.0    510.0           528.9     467.5      1097.7
ENlGY CONSUIPTION P7n CAPITA
(KIWOIMAS Of COAL tQE(flVAT1.)    147.0      301.0    329.0           371.1     262.1       730.7
POPUA,TION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-Yt   (MILLIONS)    27.4       36.9     4.5
D35* POPULATION (PECUT Of TOTAL) 30.1         31.8      34.0           27.4      24.6        49.0
POPULATION POJECTIOES
POPLATION IN TEUR 2000 (MILLIONS)                   76.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                     120.0
YEAR SITATIONARY POPULATION IS  EUD                 2075
POPULATION DENSITY
Pi sQ. Dl.                      91.0       123.0    148.0           154.8      45.3        44.6
PnR SQ. Of. AG*ICMTURIL  LAW    360.0      472.0    513.0           566.7     149.0       140.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTaU (PERCENT)
0-14 ns.                        44.7        45.5     46.0            41.3      45.2        41.3
15-4 YRS.                        52.3       53.6      51.0           54.9       51.9       55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                 3.0         2.9      3.0            3.3        2.8        3.5
POPULATION GROWTM nT! (PERCENT)
TOAL                             2.7         3.0      2.7             2.4       2.7         2.4
URAN"                            4.0         3.8      3.5             4.3       4.3         4.5
CRUDE SISI RATE CPU T1DS*ND)    45.0          43.0     35.0            30.2      39.4        31.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PM THOUSAND)    15.0        11.0      9.0             8.3      11.7         9.2
G-OSS REPtODUCrION  S              3.5LL       3.3      2.4             2.1       2.7        2.2
PANMLT PLANIG
ACCEPTORS. AIQIUAL (RDOSAIDS)     ..  -   191.7    643.0
USERS (PERCEPE Or INAID wo )   ..            2.0     22.0            34.1      13.2        34.7
FOOD AND NTITION
INDEX of FOD PODUCTION
PU CAPITA (1969-71-100)        100.1       101.0    111.0           106.2      99.6       104.4
P2a CAPITA SUPL OP
CALORIES (PERCNTr or
REQUIREIMTS)                  83.0        86.0     87.0           104.1      94.7       105.0
PWIINS (GRAMIS PER DAT)         44.0        45.0     50.0           57.4       54.3       64.4
or WHICH ANIHAL NID PULSE     19.OLE      22.0     19.2            16.9      17.4        23.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) NItTALTY RATE    16.0        10.0      7.0            4.8       11.4         8.6
HEALTH
LIFE  EPECTANCY AT SITE (TR)   51.0           57.0     60.0           61.1       54.7       60.2
[NFANr MORTALITY RAT (PE
THOUSAND)                         9S.0        a0.0     65.0           46.6       68.1       46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (P.CUT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..          ..     39.0           21.9       34.4       60.8
URBAN                             ..          ..     51.0           46.2       57.9       75.7
RURAL                             ..          ..     33.0            12.8      21.2       40.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PQRCENT
OF POPULATIOY)
TOTAL                             ..          ..     56.0           28.4       40.8        46.0
URBAN                             ..          ..     76.0           65.0       71.3       46.0
RURAL                             ..          ..     44.0            14.7      27.7       22.5
POPULATION PER PEYSICIAN            ..         ..   3150.0          3790.5    6799.4      2262.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       ..      3840.0   4990.0          1107.4    1522.1     1195.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                         1180.0       850.0    880.0          613.3      726.5      453.4
URBAN                             ..          ..       ..           203.6     272.7      253. 1
RURAL                             ..          ..       ..          1110.3    1404.4      2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL SED         ..          ..3 ..                  .9       27.5        22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSENOLD
TOTAL                            5.8         5.9       ..            5.2        5.4        5.3
URBAN                             ..         6.2       ..             ..        5.1        5.2
RURAL                             ..         5.8       ..             ..        5.5        5.4
AVERAGE NtNBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             ..         2.3       ..             ..         ..         1.9
URBAN                             ..         2.1       ..             ..         ..         1.6
RURAL                             ..         2.4       ..             ..         ..        2.5
ACCESS TO tLECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                           16.5        22.9Lh    31.0            ..       28.1        50.0
URBAN                             ..        62.8/h     ..             ..       45.1        71.7
RURAL                             ..         5.8/    10.0             ..        9.9        17.3



-23-                                 ANNEX I
Pop 2 of 5
TA8LE 3A
PHILIPPINIS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SEtET
RILIPPIES                REFENCE CaLOUs (ADJUSTED A*MRAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIATE)2 '
SAME        SAME    NMT HIGHER
MOST RECENT    (ZOAPIIIC   INCOMt        INCOME
1960 b     1970 b ESTIMATE lb    RUGION /c   GROUP Id   GROUP La
EDUCATION
AWUSTED EMOLULENT IATIOS
PRlINR:    TOTAL                 95.0       114.0    105.0             97.9       82.7       102.5
MLE                  91.0       115.0    102.0            98.7       87.3       108.6
FaALE               93.0        113.0    100.0            97.4       75.8        97.1
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                26.0        50.0      56.0            42.2       21.4        33.5
MALE                 28.0        59.0     65.0-           46.7       33.0        38.4
FEMALE              25.0        42.0      47.0            40.9       15.5        30.7
VOCATIONAL ENBOL. (X OF SECONDARY)  15.0        6.0        ..            12.5        9.8        11.5
PUPIL-TIEACHE  RATIO
PlEDARY                          36.0        29.0      29.0            32.5       34.1        35.8
SECONDARY                        27.0        33.0      31.0            25.8       23.4        22.9
ADULT LIrACY EiATE (PERCENT)       71.9        82.6      87.0            84.1       54.0        64.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CAS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        3.0         8.0       8.9             6.1        9.3        13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TRWSAND
POPULATION                       22.0        39.0      44.0            84.4       76.9       122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        1.4        10.0      17.0            22.4       13.5        38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GNERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                17.0        14.0      18.0            24.2       18.3        40.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCZ PU CAPITA  0.6          ..       7.6             3.6        2.5         3.7
LAWO FORCE
TOTAL 11A01R FORCE (THOUSAND)    10100.0    12400.0  16244.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 34.4        33.1      35.3            36.7       29.2        25.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            61.0        55.0      50.9            54.6       62.7        43.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               15.2        15.8      14.8            16.3       11.9        21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              39.8        36.6      35.3            40.7       37.1        33.5
MALE                                52.1-      48.6      47.1            49.9       48.8        48.0
FEMALE                             27.4        24.4      23.3            31.0       20.4        11.8
ECONOIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.3         1.4       1.3             1.1        1.1         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  28.8          ..        ..            14.9       15.2        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  56.2       53.9      53.3            46.8       48.2        52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.2        3.7       5.5             6.2        6.3         3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   11.9       11.9      14.7            16.8       16.3        12.6
POVERTY TARGErT GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    250.0            193.1      241.3       270.0
RURAL                              ..          ..    190.0            128.7      136.6       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVErTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    132.0            136.8      179.7       282.5
RURAL                              ..          ..      87.0            96.8      103.7       248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY LNCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..          ..      39.0            32.0       24.8        20.5
RURAL                              ..          ..      44.0            52.5       37.5        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
7b   inless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
!c   East Asia & Pacific;   /d  Lower Mliddle Income (S281-550 per capita, 1976);  :e  Intermediate Middle Income
($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /f  1950-55;  /g  Av. 1960-62; /h  1967, households.
Host Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



- 24 -                                                           ANNEX I
nwrcinm OF BanLU rIoAn                                                           Page 3 of 5
lt. Albghthe data are dram  from aeon.  generallY 3utge  the apt estheritatice st relible, it shadt ele be octet that they Sw  not be inter.-.
tioe,      cam1e banaa  of the leek of stan ardi-d tdftintine sed  oneept  oat by diffevet counties to colleting the tat.. The dtt  are,  -octhelee,
ussfsa  to describe otsr  of  gpItdte, indicate t-eAs, saft eeotsrie  certIn aoir tdlroacs betece  o-atrie..
Th  pjn    p..gqyasrgs  o    e  idticator ar. poV1tsIatlo-eighted gretric  see., ea diutio  the entre   -ine   of the Indicatorptte-c   o ae
cnitWii4h   ij7'3   to leek of  at., a-sp a-aags  of all indicators for Capital Sorpl.o Oi  EWnperr  end of idi-atore  of Acces  to Water eat  ereto
DIopossi,  ousing, Jac_   Mietribution  eat -oeey for other coutry  aroPs ar  pop.attoa-oightdt gr-tric me.   itthcot .ooluatom  of the r-te   -i.es and
the sect populated c_try.  Sic-h,ovs                  fcnrs    as  the inticatos tepent  -c nonilbility of dat ant be ct uniform  oettoc cost be  -oricet
-n,Iltlo   vrgso   n   oiao   eaobo IThee                      .. avrge -r  mtly ...efsai Se anar-jetis ofehetC   aeses  oome.io  tievaue   of our
bot.ato  at a iea t         the. cutry set -refrec  croos
1015 AREA  thcuesed sqA. to                                                                         _sto REcre1ta,Ti itona  -  ret fnplaio       oa,  ro,co  sr.
Toa  -Ttal cofeeaa o-pr~ing lund  -re  pet tlsd teter.-tuhro   rpe(oa,ubn   o    vl   evtb   ovt   ipaio
A,grioulturaI -  sect reoct estintn  of Saigo 1-tola  are  -ood temprail                     peretagro of their respeoni- poPulao:o-. le-  -   tpool coy IolI'de
:rp-rmntiy fr, copsy, pacture, maroo  and kitchen cardeneort                    t         iely th  co     -dlo    c  iiopoa..l, oitb  or otiout trnaa,If Ouce -urta
lie  falloo.                                                        ant~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  easte-oter by o-tr-bor-  ooteco or the  -oo  of pit privi~eso dola
_IRV PE tCPtA  dU)S      19Percpt   aiae    toretsre   re                                  Poslatiocpe Pto'oWiediSa  - Popolatiot diiedir  by comber of fpotic4og physoi,ao
oalvlaie  by  ane  --cesio  mthdt as  -ldri Bank Asia  (1975-77 hbsia)                 qeifiet fro  anoice    oola   niest                  ee
i96o, 1.971, ad1977 data.                                                                 Pc.otioa pe   oralac Person -1Ppuatos           iotd by  ..oter of particiug male
PIES 7     ERIONPR CAPITA - .1oaa  -oas-tim  of  eecial Car                                    eat female 9radute. .o.e., pnt-tiea  coree, ant asaiotanttu--
ecalandhocs,  so-Ie-, matoal ga  ant bydro-,  -acea  ac   e-                         ouato   e  to,pital =et    total. urban  sad r-ni  P-Po1-isato     totl, beis,
th.iec    eleotrielty) be oilogsm   of o.. 1 eqi-alet per .agit.; i:can  rra)  dver  b  tei rIIpeobee,nuber o.fihospi tal bets avitacle11  in
i97o, ant 1976 data.                                                                         Publieact private generl ea   'Pt seialord sp tta  acd  heeb tit -o  eet-rs
HoePitalo are estmblisbmeat  perenstly staffed by at leat  oephysiolc-
7OPUtATIOI AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                                Eatablishmets pro-idiag principall         ~ octotin  oae  r  'st iuoiutd. R-va
TotlPA.to.lt-er(iloe                           hof body i; i960, 1970, set                  hoaPited, heneve, tacode heLth sat malol  eters ot permanetly otaffedi
i977 dt,by a pkysioian  (but by a  edloal asistant, mare,  itei fe,  te.  chic  ofer-
Ubrba  Ppltion (percent of totalt          atoo  urba  to  .tota  ppolattoc;                 Ia-patient a..e..atiun  eat proide a limited rage of Sdionlf.1              iia
dfeetdfinition   of uba  areas iw affet  -apar'hility of data                    Admission  or  RsitalRd-Ttlnmbro   .moic  to or dicoberge  from
sag9o6t0e; ~ , 1970, eat 1975 data-                                              hospitl  didt by tdhe ak., of iot..
Pons000-iet                   P ltea PJrtiols-botiHOnIN
1975 talpoplatIon by age end seaI_at their  -eta.Lity eat fortility                  Averge dice of docehol   esn   e   eahi)-  oa,rs,adrin
ratee, Projectinparsai-r  for saotay raua coprise of thre-                                 oshi   osesofagopo   oiiul  she siare liotog~ 5curtro-
levein aseomig life  opsotancy at birth iesso   sith  -otey-Iatihi  man meals   A ib-d-r or lodger may orny hot be iooIlued J0 tie
peronpt-n  oon   lve, oad female life eopevtacy otbiliniag  atouahifrsaitilprpe.
77.5yas   The paamters for fertility rte. lsv. bays these level                       Avrgtuhro   een   e  om -tcodi-a    o   ia      vr,eoce
aeoi%devllos io fertility ace-riag  to  -o   leve  sad past                        ofpeenapr oo   n  i  urban   n   ua  ooupied cooti o... Isilg
fnmily ol1aiag perfor. -s  Each  -otry IS tihe asaigot one of these                     rpeeptirely,  Preilisge  -ooide oo-pernaen   otrot-e  ead uaooopiel pa-to
otos =omtatiom   of artaLity ac  ferility treds for projection                       A-cea to Cleotriviyproc   f                iao   tote-    ibun, to  rial-   oo
Sttletar ..    oato   -. n atatione.ry p.psolntios  tiers isn  g-eth                      total, urban, sad rura  dcell:ogc repeotively.
th   ir,  rate is equal to tie deatb rate, an ls he age
ruturte renio ..on..t.t. This ns acivd ooiy oftr,'rilc   ra1_1 .tes                 FaCT C.
-evlioe to tie relacement level oftI it cet reprodoeto   rae,oeo                     ijutd E-uo1-t Ratio
toni ge_eracioo of cese, repicee   itself eoaonly.  The snt.totary pops-                Primary seo t -       n, ced  and fenule  1- Ios   ,toonl,   -ole eaovvae at,oll-
t     -csz   n  estimatd oc tie basIs if the projeooodobh-ateriiotos              ...t If ni   gsa   i   rmr   evlo"ecooeoeePeoivrcy
tfhe po   Lato.i  tie year 2i00, sd the vote of leoiioe  of fertiltsoo-gepuatootooipiiia  toide.b-esse  o-lb yer  0i
-to v epl-a....otlei                                                                   njeoted  for dIfferent leogoit  of prisary eduo-tooc  fo- oo-or-  dito
'eyoaotryopulatito is -eneed - The pear ubee ctotIo... y pop.Itiaio                uo.eetcnalo    ooletcy ceceed 1,0 p-eret  utotsoe z-l
ooabeteetd.                                                                    ..c  ..o    raoe  i   fb  edctc   g
-onlo    e-uty                                                                        docodac  -oii-I  toa.       dne o   feae - TonIu-d Snoeooro
-" Mid-year population per squar  do tee  %110 beocarec   of                          edu...oiooreouorrsa   Ivast- four year  of  .pyrcoe  prooyLocut.0
tted1 araprovdes genera  vovtionl.                                                                                          rtace   riig  cc oototfr P,_pILo
so  ag   givultu-a land - Tapoted aSS eov  for ngitatu-al land                      -soa1y of IIto 17y-eartfae   oreoneoouoea-    eet
by.                                                                       rooluesi.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g. ftt.
Stplato  Iret Ste   cren   -total - dAmoal  vvet  rates of total mid-              P-pilb---ce eraic - -rimr   sod  -e-nar  - fatedooeoocrolot
year vocilonioco  far iSsi-ci, lDid'70, ant 1970-77.                            primary acid oevondcry levels liolded by numoers of tcavbero  oc tie  ojyre 0-77.  d b     --   of t
_calto  Toch    ae   svc    - uban  - donI .1 g-th rates of n-in                         spoadtl,g Icco-1
-tpultto   fr  33-d  1707,tt1 -75.                                                        Adult literny rote  per-ct -liberac   se.l.   bilvooco               too.  -i-cr
trude. Sirtt Sate  -ertnua d)   Ah-Ibn          lice birtis Per thousand of aid-              aperoentog  of toted  adulcl rouolv    gu I) pe-I-ad  .oer.
yeartonlotoc;to'C 197f, sliI7T ibeta
-rde Teaci Sate o- ctoonSad)  ~-ldsdia    per thousad If nd-yea                         ININyTl
-zlto:1-     60   370, arC 177 data.                                                  P,senrTosprtvuosod otnlntioo ~ -P.nsegosr oar  oi;or   crtaro
-erootonoR   -Ac-cosegoucibr of d-git-r   a                 ioca11 bear            setig_es  taeih  7ersoos; coolud-  -av,-coc     icae    sod o:ld
ocr,  -Ior     recr-duot- period Ifoh. -op-erieve  present age-                        vei-le,
to fetIliy  mc; -ooall  floe.-pa  n-e-gee -odug in 1Idd,RPaIo See siver  or  th-uoon  Ooolotlon) - AI ryp-t  f veocver  rTe-e-d:
Tai -Pleoo   -ocprs onA-S to.              aos  -Ado,tua  osnie  of                      receivers inL,,    fe   30-  year  -ten regiitr-notot rOi 001  octseso
-ce-c-  of  trt-c      -ro Itote  -ider  -uoioso of -atJ-a  fsly                          effec t .ao  for recetn Years caY tot ,e o-pa-ble  -bo  rot ovst-te-
oloniog  -rg-r.. a i.holed looig
0smoly Pbeiog -            Pse -seret of narras -ee     - Percetage of ne-ied             T ecrrn-or tonn   onaalt      TOreioe-o for br-dont to  --tva
to al cortcioose  tosameage  roup                                             an      I.o year  nied e-gurp iiooof7oetss    In effeot.1 11e              z-r
to   eoWg-P                                                          -d   y~~~~~~~~~~~~~tcea er-Tr he.bo  pr.gticnt-   opoi oo)1.t     -   Pian   ti. irgor-lto
.ceo5  oo  F- uoto  erCelt  1697>3                ~I- .ceIfperapita                    devoted Proosrily to veo-in   esrloes                -too iderd to  eOsI
a_un  pradootioofalPd ooindibeo t               rdelnscuc   seed and                      if 4t appeaot   es   arte              cr 
feed and :anoalentvpa  ia:o,  Terdities ooe   priar  good                               Cis       Anca  tetneprTpt  c   er-Bsdo   i   otro   itt
e.g.ogaae tota   f sogar)  ioih ar  edible and o-ntil  octrienta                         Io"o-bAoe  per   inluiPIg ndioin  co~ ldrive-to  ioh                  tdu l
e-.g. caff ccan  tea  re  o dede),  Aggsgate prto Ia of each o-,aY                       -ato
er -opita supo    folrc   oeto  of eorsnt) -Tonpoted fop                             LABOP FOfCE
voergy eqoivairn  -f1 oet f-ed suppble- a-ilable in ocutry per -npina                 Total labor Sort e ousanos I - loc---oaly "vteill             os  :oooeg  re
per Iap.  Availble  opisomrs  domesio prootien. -epora  es                              forte  and   -pcloyet dun ctooldiag ooueove,   nuea,  e to.lfoii
-e=ro-s,ant changes 10 snok,  Set cupplies  . soolde a-la  feed, sed,.,                 inoroeooere    r  tot oo-p-bale,
poantitie  ued :0 food prtoesoig  sad  ass Initsnibntion  Require-                   feaepec )- Femls lbo  forte as perceotage of total  ,In                    foc,
ane  e  estimated by SAC mee  an d.  phyniobogieal nect  f- ornoma                egiuue   ecet               - ic  forc - 0 farmig, tar... ry, 'sutiog 
_tnivnty sd b_dth  oncide-iag ea -esataltneaue  body ceighta,                           fihnga  pretag  of total laborore.
ag lc   c   ioevib-naa  ;f pcsloo,ad al1ooiog 10 percet for                    idsrtcun       ao  force io  -iig, oanst-uon:, sofystorbogto
cat .n-osoId level                                                               elorond ne   n  ens nopercntaef tota  L'er fre,
Per oa:n tupply of or-tet  gm       e  Icrd ) - Pr-teo  oonbem   of per                 PrioainPt    etn   toted, se,ad female - Sanopatie  o
oita tenosply of food, pe  ise  Nes oapply of food ia defined asaciit   acsar                                  po,p-nd       toal It, and fmic  boor fore as per-.
no . Seui-eiman  for al U   a        ..setabi.bhed by UdRE  proide fora-ongsi  toted, sole  -n  feanle Pepuaic-of all ages rs-eoti-eiy
sinou   sioe -o  'f to gein  of total protein per dy ann 20 gams of                 i9i, 1970, and 1975 data,  These  -r  IlL's partio:nv           -rte-  reflecting
-a.a. acd pulse- prtein, of shioh 10 gums nacld be  am. proten.                         ag-ceo   otrotar  of the poplaioo, act long tine tend.  A  e   siae
These onend"rd r  lone  than these of 75 grs-  of toted protein ant                     ar  fre  nIonl  otr
237 gram   of _aiial prooia So an average for the e_rd. p_op..t by PAO                &Vsakd  poeneac  Ratio  -  Ptio of poPolation inte  IS ano aS s oert
oetie Third  orId Poo  lur-y.                                                         the  ao  fort:  age grouP of 15-o4 years 
per oseita oro_to suol fo                 -dm    n  pulse - Protei  supply of food
-o  gegrop  --  eas,  o  hildr-  in   c    ago  -op, far mast devl-                S perse,  -ibet  S   eoa,poet  M0 P--s, ant poorest -5 p-tent
aping vtries  dataeIvdfro   lfe tables,o  buehls
lIfe da1PectacY at mirth            -_ears) - .derg  numbe  af year  of li fe             Estlated Absolute  oet  on   eel34oron                         -n-ian sdrua -
raigabirt;t ,17,  a   97   aa                                                     Abslut  pover-ty :oe   lvlosta    -em    lee   o                :cabooisms
1nfan t    toaly Bans pe touad) - A-.uaL deaths af infant  under one                        rmnitto-miy odeqsste ulen Pins e-sontial to-fodvqur-eieno ,oa
ivoess no Safe Wae   eon   feplat~sn  - total- urban, at ru l                             Estimated SelatIv  Poet  noelvl"5   erent       -a   n   ua 
sae cater -ply  beolode  treatm  sufane  -atere or  atreatd Sot                           perpma  inom-     o  the  ountry. Irha  level is  eri-d fro  tic  rura  leve
uornomen t.cs  so.b as that Prom protected  bosoe    prings,                      etti aotme=   for Sigher vest of living on urant          ra
ant saitary enls) as pe-cntages of their r-speeti-e  puplatione. Dc                     dati-eted Pcp-..aao Bec   bAlote.  SvrvToeieL""  aeroe    -  -va   "no
an  roa  ara apenlefounaia or enapSt lesatd ant ac   the   E                         oa--Proso p200atca,ubanatrrl:neaeaein   poor
of that seo . T  roya  arm&  -oa sle aceas Smsit imply that tie
veoe-ife a-  -.be  of the heocceld d.  -an have to -SpaL a  ipoa-                                                                   nnmesd doalan D ivoic
U-tioa    pan of the day in foanhig ta.swaly's  oatsr aiS                                                                     onm. lo OA.Lyslo acd veciti-s  Deportme



ANNEX I
- 25 -                                                                  Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC DEVELOPHENT DATA SHEET
Annual average           1979
Actual                     Est.              Proiected                       grovth rates (2)         share
1972    1975    1976    1977    1978         1979       1980       1981       1985      1972-78  1978-80  1980-85    of GDP
National Accounts (millions
of US$ at 1975 prices and
exchanse rates)
GDP                             12,929  15,769  16,822  17,865  18,928    20,077   21,298    22,594    29,392               6.5       6.1       6.6       100.0
Terms of trade adjustment          168        0    -456    -613       -70        -70      -387       -465       -262        -         -         -           -
GDY                             13,097  15,769  16,366  17,251  18,695    20,006   20,910    22,129    29,129               6.1       5.8       6.9        99.6
Imports - constant prices        3,304   4,116   4,460   4,799   5,489         5,865    6,068       6,484      8,271        8.8       5.2       6.4        29.2
Exports - constant prices        3,020   3,000   3,784   4,644   4,592         4,425    4,852       5,362      8,022        7.2       2.8      10.6        22.0
Exports - adjusted for terms
of trade           3,189   3,000   3,327   4,030   4,359          4,355    4,464      4,897       7,760        5.4       1.2      11.6        21.1
Resource gap                       115   1,116   1,133       768   1,129       1,510    1,604       1,586        511        -         -         -           7.5
Consumption                     10,221  11,977  12,270  12,756  13,861        15,646   16,393    17,262    21,421           5.2       8.8       5.5        77.9
Investment (incl. stocks)        2,991   4,907   5,228   5,264   5,963         5,822    6,176       6,552      8,524       12.2       1.8       6.6        29.0
National savings                 3,016   3,983   4,098   4,435   4,743         4,718    4,948       5,360      8,410        7.9       2.1      11.2        23.5
Domestic savings                 2,876   3,791   4,095   4,495   4,833         4,537    4,807       5,227      7,328        9.0      -0.3       8.8        22.6
Sector Output (millions of
US$ at 1975 prices)
Agriculture                      3,993   4,535   4,897   5,140   5,385         5,417    5,688       5,972      7,259        5.1       2.7       5.0        27.0
Industry la                      4,087   5,314   5,836   6,285   6,690         7,043    7,536       8,064    11,061         8.6       6.2       8.0        35.1
Services                         4,849   5,920   6,089   6,440   6,853         7,617    8,074       8,558    11,072         6.0       8.5       6.5        37.9
Prices (1975 - 100)
Export price index                47.4   100.0    86.2    86.6    99.2         117.6    123.2       131.6      180.3       13.1      11.4       7.9         -
Import price index                44.9   100.0    98.0    99.8   104.5         119.5    133.9       144.1      186.4       15.1      13.2       6.8         -
Terms of trade index             105.6   100.0    87.9    86.8    94.9          98.4      92.0       91.3       96.7       -1.7      -1.6       1.0         -
Selected Indicators
ICOR lb                            4.5     3.4      3.4      3.6      3.6        4.4       4.0        3.9        3.3
Import elasticity                 0.93    0.59    1.24    1.22    2.32          1.13      1.12       1.12       2.08
Average savings rate              19.5    24.7    24.4    25.0    25.3          23.1      22.9       23.4       26.8
Imports/GDP                       25.5    26.1    26.5    26.9    29.0          29.2      28.5       28.7       28.1
injestment (incl. stocks)/GDP  23.1    31.1    31.1    29.5    31.5             29.0      29.0       29.0       29.0
Resource gap/GDP                   0.9      7.1     6.7      4.3      6.0        7.5       7.5        7.0        1.7
Public Finance                      1972    1975    1976    1977    1978
(Central Government)             --  (D of GDP in current prices) ---                Labor Force in 1978 /c             Millions    (X)
Current revenue                   12.2    15.0    13.9    13.2    14.0                  Agriculture                         7.4      44.4
Tax revenue                        9.7    12.0    11.6    11.2    11.9                  Industry                            2.7      16.2
Current expenditure               13.0    13.2    12.3    11.6    11.3                  Services                            5.6      33.0
Current surplus                    0.8      1.8      1.6     1.6      2.7               Unemployed                          1.1       6.4
Capital expenditures               1.9      3.0      3.5     3.4      4.1
Total Labor Force              16.8    100.0
/a Includes nining, manufacturing, construction, and utilities.
/b The ICOR is defined as the ratio of fixed capital formation in the previous
period to the current increase in GDP over the previous period.
/c Estimate based on second quarter, 1978.
East Asia and Pacific Region
November 1979



ANNEX I
- 26-                                                    Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(USS million)
Actual                          Est.           Proiected
1972      1975      1976      1977      1978     1979     1980     1981      1985
Summary of Balance of Payments
Exports of e,cds and services           1,455     3,170     3,387     4,161     4,736    5,790    6,620    7,650    15,500
Of which:  exports of goods           1,136     2,294     2,574     3,151     3,425    4,260    4,900    5,700    12,100
Imports of goods and services           1,632     4,412     4,763     5,248     6,322    7,910    8,920   10,210    17,400
Of which:  imports of goods           1,230     3,459     3,633     3,915     4,732    6,000    6,720   7,6905    13,100
Transfers (net)                           188       318       269       260       312      340      370      400       600
Current Account Balance                  11     -924    -1,107       -827   -1.274   -1,780   -1.930   -2.180    -1.400
Direct investment (net)                  -22        125       144       216       163      150      150      170       250
MLT loans (net)                           140       359     1,040       662       834    1,000    1,300    1,670     1,180
Official-source loans (net)              94       117       282       332       333      420      520      710       780
Private-source loans (net)               46       242       758       330       501      580      780      960       400
Other capital /a                           56      -81       -238       113       233       47      100      120       170
Overall Balance /b                       94      -521     -161        164       -54     -583    -380      -200       400
International reserves (end-year) /c     551      1,358     1,640     1,525     1,883    2,423    2,130    2,130     3,200
Grants and Loan Commitments
Official grants                           0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total public loans                      422.0     769.4   1,577.4   1,372.7   2,417.0
IBRD                                   29.5     114.0    226.0    317.5    533.0
IDA                                    10.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      28.0
Other multilateral                     43.3     106.0      64.2     207.3    189.2
Governments                           275.5     182.3    391.6      122.3    370.4
of which CPE                          0.0      13.2       5.9       0.0       0.0
Suppliers                               2.0      52.5      52.0     194.2      76.7
Financial institutions                 61.7     314.6    476.4    341.7   1,000.5
Bonds                                   0.0       0.0    367.2      129.7    219.2
Other MLT loans                         130.0    283.0    603.6       134.8     914.0
Memorandum Items
Grant element of commitments             28.0      16.4       8.8      14.7      16.8
Average interest (Z)                      5.4       7.4       8.3       7.9       7.4
Average maturity (years)                 17.3      16.7      13.1      15.3      15.9
Medium & Long-Term Debt (disbursed only)
Total debt outstanding (end of period)1,890.0   2,965.0   4,383.0   5,554.0   6,839.0
Including undisbursed                 2,638.0   4,520.0   6,817.0   8,155.0  10,856.0
Public debt service                    -149.6   -225.3   -239.2   -441.9   -468.1
of which:  interest                  -51.6    -73.0    -97.9   -215.2   -167.1
Other MLT debt service                 -167.6   -232.7   -283.5   -357.1   -441.9
Total debt service                     -317.2   -458.0   -522.7   -799.0   -910.0
Debt Burden
Outstanding
Debt service ratio                       22.1      14.9      15.7      18.0      20.0                      December 31. 1978
Debt service ratio /d                    22.7      15.6      16.4      19.5      20.6                       Amount Percent
Debt service/GDP                          3.8       3.0       2.9       3.7       4.0   External Debt      (US$ mln)
Public debt service/government                                                          (disbursed only)
revenue                                17.0       9.1       9.9      12.0      20.1    IBRD                 546    13.0
Bank Group /e       576    13.8
Terms                                                                                       Other multi-
lateral           277     6.6
Interest on total DOD/total DOD          6.1        5.4       4.1       6.4       4.0     Governments       1,039    24.8
Total debt service/total DOD             17.7      16.9      10.5      15.8      13.3     Suppliers           271     6.5
Financial
Dependency Ratios                                                                             institutions    1,254    29.9
Bonds               771    18.4
Gross disbursements/imports (GNFS)       30.2      21.4      37.9      28.7      34.3     Total public
Net transfer/imports (GNFS)              12.7       7.7       6.1       5.4       5.4       MLT debt        4,188   100.0
Net transfer/gross disbursements         41.9      36.2      16.2      18.9      23.2     Other MLT debt    2,651    63.3
Other MLT debt
Exposure                                                                                      (incl. un-
disbursed)      3,293    78.6
IBRD disb./gross total diab.              4.7       9.8       5.5       7.4       8.3     Total public
Bank Group disb./gross total disb./e      4.8      10.7       6.2       7.5       8.3       debt (incl.
IBRD DOD/total DOD                        7.8       8.0       7.2       7.3       8.0       undisbursed)    7,563   180.6
Bank Group DOD/total DOD /e               7.8       8.6       7.8       7.8       8.4     Total MLT debt
IBRD debt service/total debt service      4.4       5.5       6.6       5.6       6.9       (incl. un-
Bank Group debt serv./total debt. serv.e 4.4        5.6       6.7       5.6       7.0       disbursed)     10,856   259.2
/a  Short-term capital, monetization of gold, allocation of SDRs, and errors and omissions.
/b  Equals change in net international reserves.
/c  Gross reserves of the Central Bank ("International reserves", IFS).                           East Asia and Pacific Region
/d  Includes net direct investment income.
/e  Excludes IFC.                                                                                        February 1980



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Pa~e 1 Qt 18
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ThE PFILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of April 30, 1980
Loan or
Credit                                                                         Amount (less cancellations)
Number    FY       Borrower                  Purpose                           Bank       IDA   Undisbursed
Seventeen Loans and two credits fully disbursed                                264.0   19.5
720-PH    1971  Rep. of the Philip.    Rice Processing & Storage               14.3                 0.3
809-PH    1972  National Power Corp.   Power                                   22.0                 0.2
349-PH    1973  Rep. of the Philip.    Education II                                    12.7         0.0 /a
939-PH    1973                              Ports                               6.1                 0.1
950-Ph    1973                              Second litghways                   68.0                 1.6
984-PH    1974                              Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation         9.5                 1.8
998-Pih  1974                               DBP I                              50.0                 4.0
1034-PH    1974  National Power Corp.   Power                                   61.0                 3.2
1035-PH    1974  Rep. of the Philip.    Population                              25.0                12.2
1048-PH    1974                              Shipping                           20.0                 8.3
1052-PH    1974  Philip. National Bank  PDCP IV                                 30.0                 5.1
1080-PH    1975  Rep. of the Philip.    Tarlac Irrigation                       17.0                 6.2
1102-Ph   1975                               Rural Development                  25.0                11.6
1120-PH    1975                              Small & Medium  Industries         30.0                 0.7
1154-PH    1976                              *lagat Irrigation                  42.0                16.6
1190-PH    1976                              DPB II                             75.0                 7.4
1224-T-Ph 1976                               Education III                      25.0                13.1
1225-PH    1976                              Livestock II                       20.5                 6.4
1227-PH    1976                              Chico Irrigation                   50.0                35.6
1272-T-PH  1976                              Manila Urban                       10.0                 5.8
1282-PH    1976                              Manila Urban                       22.0                12.7
1269-Ph    1976                              Second Grain Processing            11.5                 9.7
1270-Pli   1976                              Second Fisheries                   12.0                 3.2
1353-Ph    1977                              Third highways                     95.0                71.8
1367-Ph   1977                               Jalaur Irrigation                  15.0                 9.0
1374-PT1   1977                              Fourth Education                   25.0                15.4
1399-Pli  1977 Cenitral Bank of the          Fourth Rural Credit
Philippines                                                   36.5               21.7
1414-Ph   1977 Rep. of thie Philip.          National Irrg. Sys. Inprov.   50.0                     39.9
1415-P1    1977 7                            Provincial Cities Water Sup.  23.0                     17.9
1421-Ph   1977                               Rural Dev. Lanid Stlnt. II         15.0                13.2
1460-Ph    1977 National Power Corp.    Seventh Power                           58.0                55.6
1506-P1    1978 Rep. of the Philip.          Smallholder Tree Farming            8.0                 7.6
1514-Ph   1978 Philip. National Bank   PDCP V                                   30.0                23.1
1526-PK   1978 Rep. of the Philip.           2nd Natnl. Irrg. Sys. ITprov. 65.0                     54.1
790-Ph   1978                               Rural Infrastructure                       28.C        27.4
S.8-Ph    1978                              Education                           2.0                 1.S
1547-Ph   1978 Nat. Electrif. Aduin.   Rural Electrification                    60.0                37.4
1555-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   PIS(                                     15.0                 4.5
1567-P11   1978 Rep. of the Philip.          Miagat II                         150.0                96.0
1572-Phi   1978                              Industrial Investment III          80.0                56.6
1615-Ph    1978                              lianila Water Supply II            88.0                86.7
1626-Ph    1979                              National Extension                 35.0                35.0
1639-Ph    1979                              tlagat River Miultipurpose         21.0                18.9
1646-Ph    1979                              Snall Farner Dev. Land Bank    16.5                    15.3
1647-Ph    1979                              Second Urban DevelopuLent          32.0                29.9
1661-PH    1979                              highways IV                       100.0                99.7
1710-Ph   1979                               Water Supply II                    16.0                16.0
920-Ph    1979                              Water Supply II                            22.0        22.0
1727-PP    1979                              Small & liedium Industry II        25.0                25.0
923-Ph    1979                              Population  II                             40.0        40.0
1772-Ph/b 1980                               Samar Island Rural Devel.          27.0                27.0
1786-Phjb. 1980                              Fisheries Trng. (Educ. VI)    38.0                     38.0
1809-PH/c 1980             'ledium-Scale Irrigation                             71.0                71.0
1814-Ph/c 1980                               tanila Sewerage & Sanitation   63.0                    63.0
1815-Ph/c 1980                               Rainfed A.ric. Dev. (Iloilo)   12.0                    12.0
Total /d                                                                2,101.9  122.2   1,316.4
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                                                163.2
Total now outstanding                                                   2,018.7  122.2
Amount sold                                                 24.3
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                                           16.0            8.3      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustments)                                 2,010.4  122.2
Total undisbursed                                                       1,229.0   89.4    1,318.4
/a  Balance of $28,207.60 to be disbursed  in IMay/Juine 1980.
lb  Became effective in May 1980.
/c  Not yet effective.
/d  liot included:  Urban III, $72 million, signed June 2, 1980.



- 28 -                     AIIEXII
Page 2 of 18
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of April 30, 1980
Fiscal                                                         Amountq ($ million)
Year                       Company                           Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the           15.0      4.4    19.4
Philippines
1967          Manila Electric Company                           8.0       -      8.0
1967          lleralco Securities Corporation                    -      4.0      4.0
1970          Philippine Long Distance Telephone                4.5      -       4.5
Company
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                       0.8     0.4      1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corporation of the               -       2.2      2.2
Philippines
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                  6.2      2.1      8.3
1972          Marinduque M4ining and Industrial               15.0       -      15.0
Corporation
1973          Victorias Chemical Corporation                   1.9      0.3      2.2
1974          Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation            1.5       -       1.5
1974/1979    Hlaria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.   1.5           0.7      2.2
1974          Republic Flour Mills Corporation                 1.2       -       1.2
1975          Philippine Polyamide Industrial                  7.0       -       7.0
Corporation
1976          Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                       2.6      0.2      2.8
1977          Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                       2.3      1.2      3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                       3.5       -       3.5
1978          Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.   2.1            -       2.1
1979          General Milling Corporation                      4.0      1.1      5.1
1980          PISO Leasing Corporation                         -        0.1      0.1
Total gross commitments                         77.1    16.7    93.8
Less sold, acquired by others,                34.3    12.3    46.6
repaid or cancelled
Total commitments now held by IFC               42.8      4.4    47.2
Total Undisbursed                                1.5       -       1.5



- 29 -                      ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980
Project funds have been fully committed. Final disbursements
are expected to be made by September 1980 on completion of a warehouse con-
struction project, now about 40% complete. The repayment arrears situation
has improved with arrears of principal and interest amounting to 10% of
the loans outstanding. Half of the arrears are less than 12 months old.
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Overall progress of the project is satisfactory. Work on the dams
and transbasin diversion channels was completed in 1975, about one year ahead
of schedule. There were initial delays in the award of contracts for the
service area improvement works. Further delays were caused by a typhoon in
1978 which damaged some of the project area. Completion is now planned for
1980 - a two-year delay in the original schedule. Due to increased costs, a
reduced cropping intensity and delays in construction, the internal rate of
return is expected to be close to 12% compared with the appraisal estimate of
17%.
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
All major civil works contracts are in progress and the remaining
work is under way. Progress continues to be slow, with about 70% of project
works completed. Due to initial delays and recent shortages of fuel and
cement, the project is likely to be completed by June 1982. The total project
area is likely to be reduced by about 20%, mainly due to elimination of areas
subject to deep flooding by the Chico, Camiling and Agno rivers. The project
cost has increased from $34 million at appraisal to about $44.1 million, with
the result that the economic rate of return will be reduced from 15% at
appraisal to about 10%.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 18
Loan No. 1102      Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Physical implementation of the irrigation and drainage components
is about 62% of- the appraisal estimate. Due to delays in contract award and
recent shortages of fuel and construction supplies, construction has slowed
down. However, now that the Pula river irrigation system contract has been
awarded, progress is expected to improve. The road subproject is about 68%
complete. Disbursements are in line with physical projects, with 50% of the
loan amount allocated for road works disbursed.
Loan No. 1154      Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Consultants' work on engineering and economic evaluation studies
of the proposed Magat dam and reservoir has been completed. Civil works by
local contract and force acount for rehabilitation and new construction of
canals, drains and access roads are progressing well, and the project is
about 70% complete. The water management training is continuing satis-
factorily. A delay in the contract award for improvements to the project
diversion dam will mean about a year's delay in the completion of the project.
Loan No. 1225      Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness:  September 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30. 1982
Investments in pig and poultry subloans continue to exceed appraisal
estimates, with subloans for beef production development lagging behind.
The project's list of goods has been amended to allow for this fact. Funds
for the project's nutrition research funds are unlikely to be used, due to
difficulties in recruitment of consultants. A revised component will be
included in the next project. The establishment of the monitoring and
evaluation system is proceeding satisfactorily, and procurement of laboratory
equipment for the Feed Quality Control Program is complete. Project funds
have been fully committed, and the loan should be fully disbursed by
mid-1980. Repayments of many of DBP's borrowers under the project are still
under grace, but a build-up of interest arrears is beginning to emerge.
The Bank has assisted DBP with the development of an intensive action-
oriented collection program which will be further reinforced under the
proposed Third Livestock and Fisheries Credit Project. Thanks to government
approval of increased salary scales, DBP has significantly improved its
staffing position. Various improvements to DBP's organizational structure
have been instituted and other organizational developments are under
consideration.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Pae; 5 of 1
Loan No. 1227      Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project had a slow start due to delays in procuring construc-
tion equipment for force account works. Changes in the design of the Chico
diversion weir, the main diversion dam and the main canal siphon resulted in
contracts being awarded behind schedule. Even though progress has improved
since the contracts were awarded, and work is now proceeding satisfactorily,
the project is about two years behind schedule.
Loan No. 1269      Second Grain Processing Project: $11.5 Million Loan
of July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 4,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Due to delays in implementing the first phase project, handling of
applications for the project only started about 2 years after effectiveness.
After three years of bumper rice crops, medium and large millers continue to
make reasonable profits, but Government controls have affected the investment
climate. DBP has undertaken to intensify its technical assistance to the
smaller millers, and this should result in better repayments. Demand for
subloans has also been slowed down by what is perceived by prospective
applicants as slow processing of subloans by DBP. The Bank has, in
consultation with DBP, developed a list of detailed recommendations on actions
to be taken. Recently, the Bank approved various amendments to broaden the
scope of the project for the loan to become more responsive to current needs
and to speed up disbursements. New proposals have recently been made for the
Grains Losses Study which represent a change in the previously agreed terms of
reference and reflect the change in focus caused by the Philippines currently
achieving a rice surplus situation.
Loan No. 1270      Second Fisheries Project: $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Due to problems related to procurement procedures for fishing
vessels and increased deployment of staff on loan recovery work, the
Development Bank of the Philippines slowed down the processing of subloan
approvals in the second half of 1977. However, loan approvals had picked up
considerably during 1978 and the loan was fully committed in August 1979.



- 32 -                      ANNEX II
Page 6 of 18
Loan No. 1367      Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress of the project is about 28% compared with appraisal
estimates of 34%. Force account work is proceeding satisfactorily. Nine of
the 24 contracts for civil works have failed, and NIA has taken over eight of
them for completion by force account. With the equipment now on hand, NIA is
capable of completing this work satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1399      Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
After two and a half years of project implementation, commitments
and disbursements are roughly one-half of appraisal estimates. The Central
Bank has reassessed the project and as a result new categories of lending
(for medium-size trucks, tree crops and working capital), and a new set of
financial intermediaries (private development banks) have been included in
the project. Although these should accelerate implementation, it is
tentatively estimated that the completion date will be delayed by about 18
months. A better idea of eventual performance will be obtained by late summer
of 1980, when the above changes, which were introduced in late February 1980
will have been effective for six months.
Loan No. 1414      National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project;
$50 Million Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
August 9. 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress in project implementation has been slow due to staffing
and design problems. Contracts for drainage works in Leyte are to be
awarded shortly, and those for the Abulog works have already been awarded.
Progress is now expected to proceed satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1421      Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Satisfactory overall progress is being maintained with infra-
structure and in work towards appropriate technical packages in agriculture.
Problems associated with legitimatizing land holdings are now better
understood by concerned authorities. Some initial steps toward resolving them
have now been taken. Feasibility studies towards a forward program is well
underway, and have been expanded to include policy studies on the future use
of, or developments within, unalienated lands in general.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
Loan No. 1506      Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $8.0 Million
Loan of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 11,
1978: Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Operations have started in all project components except research,
which is expected to begin early in 1980. However, progress has been lagging
behind schedule. In order to stimulate the slow smallholder enrollment rate
in the treefarming component, DBP eased the collateral terms and application
procedures for treefarm subloans. Insufficiency of government funds has
delayed the other components to varying degrees, particularly the Abra pine
plantation component for which vehicles have still not been been acquired. A
gradual improvement of this situation is expected, although funding could
continue to be a problem in 1980. Disbursements have started at a moderate
rate.
Loan No. 1526      Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project:
$65 Million Loan of March 15, 1978: Date of Effectiveness:
June 20, 1978: Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project equipment has been procured ahead of schedule and has
started to arrive at the project sites. Topographic surveys and mapping have
been completed for about 80% of the project area and design of project works
is under way. Construction work has started and is primarily devoted to
service roads and structures along main and secondary canals. A new Project
Manager and his Assistant are providing excellent leadership in getting the
project moving. Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Credit No. 790    Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21,
1978: Date of Effectiveness: July 21, 1978: Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Construction work on communal irrigation systems, village water
supply, health stations and ports is proceeding well. Construction of about
70 km of roads has started and about 50% of the design work on the remaining
680 km has been completed. While construction of the road component is
behind schedule, overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1567-PH The Magat River Multipurpose Project - Stage II;
$150 Million Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness;
August 24. 1978: Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress is generally satisfactory. Work on the diversion tunnels
and the main dam and spillway has accelerated due to a marked improvement in
the management, planning and execution of the contractor's operations. River
diversion was completed in May 1980, and tunnel 1 was due to be opened for
diversion by end-April 1980. Excavation on the main contract is ahead of
schedule, but there has been some delay with the batching plant.



~ 34 -                    ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
Loan No. 1626-PH National Extension Project; $32.0 Million Loan of
December 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 27, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
A Management Committee has been created under the Chairmanship of
the Minister of Agriculture, and appropriate subcommittees established.
Nominations have been approved by the President for 12 MOA Regional Directors,
and 24 Assistant Directors. The first staff appointments have been
contracted. Allocation of 500 proposed agricultural centers has been made to
all 75 Provinces and negotiations on site ownership and registration are in
progress. The first year's vehicle allotment is being procured, including
about 1,000 motorcycles with sidecars which will be purchased by extension
workers under the project's newly estabished special vehicle loan fund.
Training is well under way. The first consultancy, to establish project
monitoring and evaluation procedures within BAEx is about to begin. The
appointment of a second consultant should be contracted soon. Pilot areas
have been selected in all 12 regions of the Philippines for introduction of
the "training and visit" extension system, and specialized training of the
district agricultural extension supervisors, who will administer the pilot
areas, has been completed. Four pilot areas are operational, and the
remaining eight will be as soon as the benchmark agroeconomic surveys are
completed in 1980.
Loan No. 1639-PH Magat River Multipurpose Project; Stage II Irrigation;
$21.0 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Force account construction started in early 1980. There have been
some delays in awarding major construction contracts. However, NIA expects
contractors to begin work in April/May 1980, and completion is still expected,
as scheduled, by end-1982.
Loan No. 1646-PH Small Farmer Development Project through the Land Bank of
the Philippines; $16.5 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Since the loan became effective, the Land Bank has improved internal
procedures and strengthened field operations, although staffing is still below
required strength. Lending under the project for agricultural term credit
has commenced in most subcomponents, although loan disbursement has been very
slow. No disbursements have been made for infrastructure improvements due to
difficulties with the Government's budgetary procedures which are currently
in the process of being resolved. The trend in implementation is improving,
although progress will be slower than expected in the foreseeable future.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 18
Loan No. 1772-PH Samar Island Rural Development Project; $27.0 million
Loan of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 21, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This loan was signed on February 1, 1980, and was declared effective
on May 21, 1980.
Loan No. 1809-PH Medium-Scale Irrigation; $71.0 million Loan of March 28,
1980. Proposed Date of Effectiveness: June 30, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This loan was signed on Mlarch 28, 1980 and is expected to be
declared effective on June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 1815-PH Rainfed Agriculture (Iloilo); $12.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: June 26,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This loan was signed on March 28, 1980 and is expected to be
declared effective on June 26, 1980.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 939        Second Ports Project: $6.1 Million Loan of October 24,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973;
Closing Date: July 15, 1980
Project civil works at General Santos were completed and turned
over to the Philippine Ports Authority (PPA) on December 7, 1978. At
Cagayan de Oro, 99% of the project is complete, and PPA is already using the
new quay extension. The Closing Date of the loan has recently been extended
to July 15, 1980 to cover civil works contract guarantee retention monies
and the costs of the next ports project feasibility study. The latest
project cost estimate is $20.2 million compared to $12 million at appraisal.
Loan No. 950        Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Overall, the project is about 99% complete. Difficulties have been
encountered by contractors at various times in the execution of the works
which, together with inflation, have resulted in cost increases and time
delays. These problems have now been overcome. Further major problems are
not anticipated, and the project is expected to be completed by Mfay 1980,
except for one bridge reconstruction, which is scheduled for completion in



- 36 -                        ANNEX LI
Page 10 of 18
August 1980. This represents a delay of about 3 years, with a new Closing
Date of June 30, 1980. Total project cost is now estimated at about $189
million, an increase of about 47% over the original appraisal estimate, due
primarily to inflation and the serious time delays that have been experienced
throughout the project.
Loan No. 1048      Inter-Island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Closing Date was extended recently to June 30, 1981 to allow
for the completion of training programs and for ship construction guarantee
payments. About 50% of the loan has been disbursed. Loan applications
covering the balance of uncommitted funds are under consideration by DBP.
Loan No. 1353     Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Overall, the project is about 30% complete. Major problems have
been encountered in the implementation of the national roads contracts, with
7 out of 14 contracts terminated due to unsatisfactory performance by the
contractors. Two new contracts have been awarded and bidding is underway
for the remainder. As a consequence, delays and costs higher than the
original bids are expected. Contracts for the improvement of minor roads
have been awarded but Presidential approval is being awaited for some of them
before work can begin. After substantial initial delays, the road maintenance
and restoration programs are now making satisfactory progress. All 28
workshop contracts have been awarded but work has only begun on 8 of them,
awaiting release of budgetary funds for the rest. Procurement of road
maintenance equipment, tools and other machinery is virtually complete.
Consultants for supervision of construction of roads and workshops are in
place and the road and ferry feasibility studies have been completed. The
technical assistance advisors to MPH completed their assignment in November
1979. Training advisors to MPH completed their work in March 1980. Overall
project costs are expected to remain close to appraisal estimates, but project
completion is likely to be delayed until late 1982, more than 24 months later
than the appraisal schedule. This delay is due to the late start of some
critical activities and to the serious delays in the execution of some of the
road construction contracts.
Loan No. 1661      Fourth Highway Project; $100 Million Loan of March 9,
1979 ; Date of Effectiveness: June 15, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project has made a slow start, but prequalification of contrac-
tors for the road construction works is underway, utilizing new procedures
agreed during loan negotiations. Proposals for the technical assistance to



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 18
MPH and MLGCD have been received from the short-listed consulting firms and
evaluation is in process. A short-list of prospective consulting firms for
the design and construction supervision of workshops has been prepared and
proposals requested.  Preparatory work for the continuation _ the road
maintenance and road restoration programs begun under the Third Highway
Project (Loan 1353-PH) has begun. Selection of technical assistance
consultants to MPWTC/NEDA for the continuation of the transport planning
advisory services, begun under a previous project (Loan 1272-T/1282-PH) is in
process. Land acquisition for road construction and workshops is under way.
Prequalification for equipment suppliers has begun.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1224T    Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness:  July 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project has established an autonomous textbook agency to manage
book development, production, and distribution for public elementary and
secondary schools. It includes the writing of 75 textbook titles and
production of 27 million textbooks. Good progress has been made towards
achieving the key institution-building feature of the project. Implementation
is proceeding well with minimal delays in textbook publishing/printing and
teacher training. About 18 million textbooks have been produced and
distributed. Delays are greatest in construction of the central warehouse
complex, which is about 20 months behind schedule. Project costs are close to
appraisal estimates, and disbursements are about 69% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1374      Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of March 25,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Implementation of the project is generally about one year behind
schedule because of delayed contract awards, shortages of building materials
and rapid price escalation. Remedial measures have been taken by the Govern-
ment and the delays arrested. Enrollment projections and staff development
programs show that the project is making steady progress towards its
development impact targets. Project costs are close to appraisal estimates,
but disbursements are about 41% of appraisal estimates, reflecting the
implementation delays.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
Loan No. S-8-PH   Educational Radio Technical Assistance:  $2 Million Loan
of April 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is being implemented by an Educational Communications
Office (ECO), established for this purpose within EDPITAF. ECO is functioning
smoothly and is successfully preparing and distributing radio programs and
printed materials for the two major project subcomponents - Radio Assisted
Teaching in Elementary Schools (RATES), and Continuing Education for Teachers
(CET). These programs have reached the two selected pilot areas on schedule
(Pangasinan and Leyte Provinces). CET started another experimental
utilization in Mindanao in late 1979. In order to provide information on the
desirability of nationwide project implementation, the pilot project includes
a substantial evaluation component which is proceeding smoothly and is
expected to be completed in the mid-1980s.
Loan No. 1786-PH Fisheries Training Project: $38.0 Million Loan
of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 19, 1980; Closing -Date: June 30, 1985
This loan was signed on February 1, 1980, was declared effective on
May 19, 1980. A monitoring and evaluation unit has been established within
EDPITAF and the collection of base line data is in progress. A review of
combined World Bank and bilateral sources assistance shows that the fishery
technical assistance program is well coordinated and mutually complementary.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272T    Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282       $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976: Date of  Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Overall construction on the Tondo project is about 57% complete.
The 65-classroom high school is now occupied, and final designs for the
remaining four schools are nearing completion. 95% of the infrastructure and
1,480 of the 2,000 units in the Dagat-Dagatan sites and services component are
complete. Both packages for the Radial Road (R-10) have now been awarded.
The project is generally progressing satisfactorily with many initial diffi-
culties overcome and lessons learned which should hasten implementation of the
remainder of the project.
Loan 1415-PH   Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Contracts have been awarded in all six Water Districts for distri-
bution networks, pumping stations and reservoirs. The scope of subprojects
was revised by LWUA and approved by communities in public hearings.
Difficulties in contracting local firms for drilling have resulted in delays



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 18
in the preparation of feasibility studies in remote areas. LWUA has been
requested to present a plan for assistance to Water Districts in
institution-building, and proposing solutions to the scarcity of local well
drilling contractors.
Loan 1615-PH   Second Manila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of
July 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Delays in ADB-financed components of the project have resulted
in similar delays in IBRD-financed parts of the project. Nevertheless,
according to new re-scheduling prepared by consultants, it is expected that
the original target of completing the project by June 1983 will be met.
Because of the overall impact of inflationary pressures resulting from recent
oil increases, the increase in water rates of @ 0.25 per cubic meter ori-
ginally scheduled for October 1979 has been postponed to about mid-1980.
MWSS now expects to achieve a rate of return of 5% on net revalued fixed
assets in 1981 instead of 1980.
Loan No. 1647-PH Second Urban Development Project: $32.0 Million Loan
of January 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 26,
1979: Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Implementation has begun on earthworks, sewage and drainage
contracts in Manila and the three regional cities of Cebu, Davao, and Cagayan
de Oro. Designs for community facilities in Dagat-Dagatan are complete, and
those for the elementary and high school are in various stages of
production.
Credit 920-PH  Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $22 Million
Loan 1710-PH   Credit and $16 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: November 30, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
Consultants to assist LWUA in the preparation of feasibility
studies for the first group of 20 cities have been hired. A new project
manager was appointed and LWUA is actively promoting the creation of new
Water Districts. Work has started on the development of a financial
planning and control system.
Loan 1821-PH Third Urban Development Project; $72 Million Loan of
June 2, 1980; Proposed Date of Effectiveness:
September 2. 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
This loan was signed on June 2, 1980, and is expected to be
decleared effective on September 2, 1980.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 18
Power Sector
Loan No. 809       Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 296    of April 3, 1972: Date of Effectiveness:  July 1, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project was completed in mid-1977, two years behind schedule.
Due to cost overruns, a part of the transmission project was transferred to
the Sixth Power Project, and the actual project cost as finally constructed
was about $59.3 million, an increase of about $11.0 million over the original
estimate. The Closing Date of the loan has been postponed from December 31,
1979 to June 30, 1980 to allow full disbursement of committed funds. As of
the end of December 1979, the undisbursed funds amounted to $1.0 million.
Credit 296-PH waS fully disbursed in April 1975.
Loan No. 1034      Sixth Power; $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project consists of a 100 MW hydropower plant at Pantabangan,
Luzon, transmission lines for the expansion of the Luzon grid and consultants'
services. The generating plant was commissioned in April 1977, and the
transmission facilities are now expected to be completed in the first quarter
of 1981, more than three year: behind schedule. The revised cost of the
project is estimated at $124.2 million, an increase of about 35% over the
original estimate ($92 million). The Closing Date of the loan has been
postponed from December 31, 1978 to June 30, 1981 to allow additional time for
completion of the transmission systems and payment of the retention money.
Loan No. 1460      Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The revised foreign exchange component is estimated at $44.4
million, compared with the original estimate of $58.0 million. Procurement
has been slow, with the result that disbursements have been behind schedule.
The Bank waived the 8% rate of return requirement for 1978 and the Government
has requested that this be repeated for 1979. NPC's financial performance was
reviewed by the Bank during the energy sector review in April/May 1980. In
the meantime, the Government authorized a 31% power rate increase effective
February 1980, and NPC expects to meet the covenanted 8% rate of return in
1980. Plans for establishing a training center, which was to be financed by
the Bank, have been deferred.
Loan No. 1547      Rural Electrification; $60.0 Million Loan of April 4,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Execution of the project is now improving, after initial delays in
tender document preparation and procurement. Following reorganization of



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 18
NEA's management, the first contracts for purchase of Bank project materials
were awarded in April 1979. Construction started in late 1979 following
receipt of project materials, and first disbursements are ex-"cted before
June 1980. Bid documents for the third and last package of materials have
been prepared, and contract awards are expected in September 1980. NEA's
financial performance in 1978 and 1979 was satisfactory, and steps are being
taken by NEA to strengthen its monitoring of the financial performance of
the cooperatives, especially their compliance with the Government's finan-
cial performance guidelines.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998       Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
September 9, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million) has been fully
drawn down by DBP to finance medium and relatively large industrial projects.
DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance about 1,300 smallholders in a
pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao; this part of the loan is almost fully
disbursed.
Loan No. 1052      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
The loan is for on-lending by PDCP to financially and economically
viable industrial subprojects. After some slowdown in commitments and dis-
bursements experienced in 1976 and 1977 the loan has now been fully committed.
Overall progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1120      Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The DBP ($16.7 million) and IGLF ($12 million) portions of the loan have been
fully disbursed. The Rural Industrial Cooperative Program ($0.6 million)
which is being implemented by the National Electrification Administration is
facing management and staffing problems because of its experimental nature.
Disbursements on this component have been slow. The Small Business Advisory
Centers program ($0.7 million) of the Ministry of Industry has been
implemented and is working satisfactorily. Overall progress of the project is
satisfactory.



- 42 -                        ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
Loan No. 1190      Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of January 28,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976:
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The proceeds of the loan were intended to be used by DBP to finance
large-, medium- and small-scale industries. Commitments of funds, which were
initially much slower than expected due to a slowdown of investment in the
industrial sector as a whole, improved in 1978 and 1979. The loan has since
been fully committed by DBP for subproj-ects. Disbursement is now proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1514      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP);
$30 Million Loan of February 9, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: June 23, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982
The proceeds of the loan are being on-lent by PDCP for financing
viable private industrial enterprises. As of March 31, 1980 commitments under
the loan amounted to $18.5 million. The project progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1555      Philippines Investments Systems Organization (PISO);
$15 Million Loan of May 8. 1978: Date of Effectiveness:
May 12, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The actual pace of commitment of the loan was much faster than
anticipated during loan appraisal, and the loan has since been fully committed
by PISO. As of March 31, 1980, disbursements amounted to $10.5 million.
Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1572      Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines: $80 Million Loan
of June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 15,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Out of the total loan of $80 million, $50 million is earmarked for
financing large industry and $29.7 million for small-scale industry projects
and a small portion ($0.3 million) for technical assistance. Commitments for
subprojects under the large industry component amounted to $43.5 million as of
March 31, 1980.  In addition, as of the same date the small and medium
industry and the technical assistance components had been disbursed to the
extent of $7.6 million. The overall progress of the project is satisfactory.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 18
Loan No. 1727      Second Small and Medium Industries Development Project;
$25 Million Loan of June 29, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
November 9, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
In the last quarter of 1979, the Government and the Central Bank
worked on the introduction of policy changes in IGLF, for which purpose $24.5
million was provided under the loan. In the final quarter of 1980, IGLF
started making commitments under the loan. Loan utilization is now
progressing well. Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1035      Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
As of March 1980, 193 of the 219 project facilities had been
completed, 12 were under construction and 14 had not been started.
Contractors have completed about 92% of all construction work. During the
period January to October 1979, many project components experienced
implementation delays due to non-availability of Government counterpart funds.
While this problem was partially solved by internal transfer and reallocation
of funds it is likely that there will be a 6- to 12-month delay in project
completion. Following the disbanding on December 31, 1979, of the
administration unit for this project, a Project Coordinator was appointed for
both this and the second project. This action is expected to speed up
significantly the completion of this first project. In January 1979 the
project was amended to include financing of additional vehicles and equipment
for service delivery; training; information, education and communication
campaigns; and studies in preparation for the second population project. The
amended total project cost is $40 million. The total cost estimate had
decreased from the estimate at appraisal, due mainly to price increases not
materializing as forecast. The management situation in the Commission on
Population (POPCOM) is improving and a functional analysis of the Ministry of
Health is completed. The recommendations of this study are being considered
to strengthen the integrated health/nutrition/family planning programs.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 18
Credit No. 923    Second Population Project; $40.0 Million Credit of
June 29 , 1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This credit was declared effective on October 15, 1979. Implemen-
ting agencies obtained sufficient GOP budget allocation for CY1980 and have
started several significant activities under this project. A new construction
unit has been established to monitor and coordinate all civil works under the
project. Most of the contracts for operational research and production of
communication materials have been finalized. The Ministry of Health is
streamlining the project management activities into its line functions. A
national task force is engaged in developing the operational policies,
guidelines and manuals for implementation of Primary Health Care Program and
two independent studies to strengthen the finance/accounts management and
integrated health/population/nutrition management information system are
underway. Though due to delayed release of GOP funds implementation is
slightly behind the schedule, the overall progress is satisfactory.



- 45 -
ANNEX  II
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
WATERSHED MANAGEMENT AND EROSION CONTROL PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 3 years
(b) Project prepared by; National Irrigation Administration
(c) Dates of first presentation to the Bank
and first Bank mission to consider the project: October 1975,
November 1978
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission: June 1979
(e) Date of completion of Negotiations: April 25, 1980
(f) Planned date of Effectiveness: October, 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        NIA would:
(a) afford the Bank an opportunity to comment on any new appointment
to the post of Project Director during the period of project
implementation (para. 56);
(b) institute for the project, in consultation with the Commission
on Audit, a commercial accounting system, acceptable to the
Bank, by December 31, 1980 (para. 57);
(c) submit for Bank review, by December 31, 1982, a plan for sharing
project revenues with employees of the Pantabangan project area,
and then implement such a revenue-sharing scheme by June 30, 1983
(para. 57);
(d) submit for Bank review, by June 30, 1985, a profit-sharing scheme,
taking into consideration a fair share for employees and a fair
return on the capital investment of NIA and implement such a
profit-sharing scheme by December 31, 1985 (para. 57); and



- 46 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) execute, with BFD, a memorandum of understanding, by December 31,
1980, defining the two agencies' respective roles in project
imi-Lementation activities (para. 59).
2.         An additional condition of disbursement for the forest protection
pilot program would be the preparation of a detailed plan of operations and
an implementation schedule for this component (para. 47).



/ 5   -r  '\      ,   '        N-    t---                                                                                             PHILIPPINES
Watershed  Management and Erosion Control Project
k                                                              i00 1 t TS1  Wr _r_i ; ; X I PANTABANGAN WATERSHED
Watershed boundaries
R Rivers, creeks
ift Dams, reservoirs
Existing roads
-Proposed roads
Exsti,ng project nurse,res
N-,--.,                                            d   Proposed project ur,sery
J                                                                                                                        N~~~~~~~~~~~'~jr      Proposed charcoal centers
11                                                                                  j   Existing lookout lowers
Proposed lookout towers
Land use!
N                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~Existirg NIA plantations
iiAgricultural areas
PrJopsel communal fruitfarrms/graozng areas
Euisting forest areas
>    v   ,~~~~~~~~~~~A1                                                                                                    Pr0 h t znS n i opo#t. |~2C 
P    sed refarestat,on areas,
Sg Aguntin  ~~~~~~~                   ,,                             L'11  ~~~~Mango
stin                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Yemane
Lii   Benguet pine
Narra
I          Ljjj~~~~Leafmeol
t                           R>P Japan protect areas
L  afffo°   Itzov,    >                                              /                                5                                                  sPf r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ 
f~~~~ 
o  0        / ~~~~~~~       0        2k0     422       602         0       
o~T  u.uo- tn,,, 
&' 5. d,',rr0 flri55-a                                                                                                          
0%u,ru,,,,,,,n,,,,,,N






12 1- 00,
lh~~   0~ -d- f0A 
ioeh oC '91 nfl,ch,i 5 atetd 
z7-0'TO -h anv,nr -n -spe ro                                                                                                                          17,OCC'
bmnda,.v~~~~flvom enenams,                    V4~LUZON\
Wond,-,, lb,gv'f vi  en-5
I.,  -Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i 
o,S, b-d-sem f'~                                                                                                                               O
121P 30'
MAGAT          -
hr                                                                                                     4'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/  /V,Ifev~rde   ~ )jj  ogiis
PHI LI PPI NES
-                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~Watershed Management and Erosion Control Project
MAGAT WATERSHIED
_-~Wetershed bosninary
mZr'7 Rivers, creeks
I$~Proposed damn and reservoir
S                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BFD reforestation proleCts
-Existing roadis
Paddy rice, irrigoted            3 1,000 ha
i55     .f\~~~~~~~~~ ~Padidy rice, irrigated terraces   20,100 ha
P  ~ ~    ~    ,       Pedd~~ay rice, unirrigeted        12,900 he
Div,ersified crops                 3,300 he
-'Primary forests                  50,600 he
a.:Secondary forests               12 3,000 he
____OMETER_________19,700 6e
M[i El0                                      1                Open grassland                   150,900 h.a~ 
i21  00'                                                                                                                        12i- 30-






IBRD 14631
00  -        j  0           [  rmeu0 as bPPd b   0  b 0 E,                                                                                                                     OCTOBER 1979
Wor/d -k" 5ff -1-fu,r,  ftr
-CO,WO-_.rpo  eo  One rOdoo Of
F  /       The de -rm,roosed ardhte
e    rfi  Area Of ms X %  luddtrtOhO=r r 0000=0 oropen
LUZ O N -0                            p-oKSho#bOh hr
r       .rr*  I  gr,e h . b
Arrahfroo   _Or                                                                          n                                                      Mzo
0  \    _               r  O-t   rr fO Oair   rrSr
'\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Rei  k- ... . .Oau d }
/0 ! , E F ................................... <;  g X  ,, jiPHILIPPINES
0    Watershed Management and Erosion Control Project
MAGAT WATERSHED SUBPROJECT
Watershed bo-ndary
2        Rivers, creeks
~-       Exi stming roads
____Proposed roads
A    Proposed project nursery
UProposed charcoal centers
Ar.Prpcsed lookou t owers
Lcand use
Mango
Canshear
Yemone
iFl77if Bang.et pine
.Narra
Makogany
Grossla nd
Proposed smailaholder pilot areos
KILOY TrERES C                       3       4       5       6        7       B
MILES                                                       4 2



