Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20861
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(41000)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$140.1 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE SECOND VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
December 26, 2000
Transport Sector Unit
Indonesia Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective (see below))
Currency Unit = Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
Rp 1,000 = US$ 0.125 (January 2000)
US$ 1 = Rp 2,400 (January 1997)
Rp 8,000 (January 1998)
Rp 13,000 (June 1998)
Rp 8,000 (January 1999)
Rp 8,000 (January 2000)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPPENAS            National Development Planning Agency
BRI                 Bank Rakyat Indonesia
BPKP                National Audit Agency
GOI                 Government of Indonesia
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
IDA                 International Development Association
IDT                 Poverty Program prior to VIP
IMF                 International Monetary Fund
KPKN                Regional Treasury Offices
KDP                 Kecamatan (subdistrict) Development Project
MCK                 Communal toilet, bathing and washing place
MoF                 Ministry of Finance
MoHA                Ministry of Home Affairs
MoPW                Ministry of Public Works
Pimpro              District Project Manager
SIL                 Sector Investment Loan
SUSENAS             Household expenditure survey
VIP                 Village Infrastructure Project
Vice President:    Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:   Mr. Mark Baird
Sector Manager/Director:    Mr. Jitendra N. Bajpai
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Ms. Frida F. Johansen



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SECOND VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Loan 4100-NIN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
Page No.
I. Project Data                                                                            I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                            1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                 2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                    4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                      8
6. Sustainability                                                                         12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                          14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                        19
9. Partner Comments                                                                       21
10. Additional Information                                                                32
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                      33
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                      36
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                      38
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                      43
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                      45
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                         46
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                     47
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P040521                                         Project Name: SECOND VILLAGE
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Team Leader: Frida Felicia Johansen                         TL Unit: EASUR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                          Report Date: December 26, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: SECOND VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE                    L/C/TFNumnber: 41000
PROJECT
CouitryIDepartment: INDONESIA                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: Rural Infrastructure; targeted poverty reduction
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  12/08/95                                  Effective: 01/15/97            03/05/97
Appraisal:  06/25/96                                    MTR. 02/28/98               03/01/98
Approval:  10/10/96                                  Closing: 12/31/99             07/31/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency:  GOI/BAPPENAS
Other Partners: MoF, MoHA, MoPW, BRI
STAFF                 Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:       Jemal-ud-din Kassum                        Russell Cheetham
Country Manager:      Mark Baird                                  Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:       Jitendra N. Bajpai                          Anupam Khanna
Team Leader at ICR:   Frida Johansen                              Frida Johansen
ICR Primary Author:   Frida Johansen
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N-Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)         ICR
Quality at Entry: HS                      HS
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Objectives. The main project objective was to build small infrastructures in some 2,600 poor villages on
Java and Sumatra, where most of Indonesia's poor live. Secondary objectives were to provide temporary
employment and to increase incomes in rural areas. Other important objectives were to increase
decentralization and community participation. This project was classified as a targeted poverty reduction
intervention. Another objective was that VIP2 enable uninterrupted continuation of VIP.
Assessment. The objectives were surpassed. The objectives were clear, realistic and important for the
country and in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. Appraisal of the project took place
during the second year of the first VIP and enabled continuity of the program with the benefit of the
experience gained under VIP. The objectives became even more relevant following the 1997 economic
crisis in Indonesia while the programmatic and flexible nature of the project enabled rapid coverage
expansion. Thus, the project was responsive to borrower circumstances and development priorities. Several
VIP procedures (e.g., village in charge of decision making, implementation and financial management) were
replicated or adapted under an emergency project covering non-VIP villages (the Government funded VIP,
"PDM-DKI") and other social projects (education, water for low income commnunities, urban poverty). The
project had a multiplier effect in Indonesia and contributed to institution building for delivery of rural
infrastructure.
The risk associated with expansion of VIP to include the island of Sumatra was known during the VIP2
appraisal (the lower population density and the higher prices obtainable from agriculture on Sumatra
making VIP and labor intensive methods less attractive there). This risk was accepted and not highlighted
for political reasons.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original project objectives did not change but the number of villages assisted increased from the 2,600
intended to 7,044. In the first year of implementation, 1997, Indonesia experienced severe economic crisis.
In the two subsequent years the project coverage was enlarged to also alleviate the consequences of the
crisis.
3.3 Original Components:
The project components were: Village Infrastructure, Technical Assistance for Implementation Support,
Technical Assistance for Monitoring and Evaluation, and Increased Government Administration (the latter
fully financed by the Government). The components were few and simple, focused on achieving the
objectives of the project. The project provided support to enhance the implementing agency's
administrative, engineering and financial capacities, given that the project added a considerable workload.
The components were the same as those in the first Village Infrastructure Project. The Loan Agreement
had only 2 categories, Consultant Services and Goods, Works and Services (for village infrastructure),
though it had also an unallocated amount.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project components/categories remained unchanged; only the allocation levels changed (as reported in
the ICR cost and financing section). The generic nature of the components provided considerable flexibility
during implementation--tasks/works could be added without this needing a formal restructuring of the
project. Procedures were amenable to change without loan amendments, because they were detailed in the
Project Manual rather than in the Loan Agreement, and the Agreement allowed changes with the Bank
consent. Only simple loan amendments were necessary.
- 2 -



Three changes introduced were additions:
a)     a program to rehabilitate faulty infrastructure, even if built under VIP -- provided the fault was due
to defective design or construction and not caused by inadequate maintenance (i.e. beyond control of the
villagers) -- that resulted in providing additional materials to 130 villages;
b)     a third program year, and
c)    preparation of a fourth program year the implementation of which is currently financed fully by
GOI; and
The fourth change was a reduction of scope of the independent monitoring. Continuous monitoring was
done by the project team. This established outcomes and impacts. The upheaval from the crisis would have
blurred the cause of changes in the villages in an ad-hoc project monitoring exercise (making it difficult to
isolate the negative impact of the crisis from the positive impact of the project). Assisting more villages
seemed more important than undertaking a survey. Thus, the size of the independent monitoring effort was
reduced and an originally intended detailed village consumption survey was dropped. (The national
Statistical Office was to follow its standard consumption survey methodology so that project villages could
be compared to non-project villages. Such a survey was carried out in the first VIP.) Moreover, with
widespread emergency assistance, comparisons between "proejct" and "non-project" villages would have
been less meaningful.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
VIP2 was built on the success of VIP. The implementation structure was already in place at VIP2's entry,
even with the few changes introduced at entry compared to VIP. Risks identified at appraisal included
improper targeting, fund diversion, slower project implementation, labor intensive methods, inadequate
maintenance, and low skilled field engineers. The project design introduced an innovative approach to
Indonesia, addressed the risks, and was simple in implementation at village level.  Procedures,
implementation manuals and trained staff and consultants were in place and the project was launched in
villages even before loan effectiveness--few projects achieve such a quick start up. GOI chose to postpone
effectiveness until it needed the funds even though conditions for effectiveness were complied with 2
months earlier. The regional rating at entry was S (the rating mandated by Bank rules). In retrospect, the
quality at entry remains HS in this ICR.
The QAG review at entry rated the project HS; it found the approach to be bold and several aspects to
deserve "best practice" classification. The QAG team largely based its views on the results of the first
Village Infrastructure Project works, through field visits to villages and agencies. The team identified
strengths and weaknesses. The identified strengths included: a) ongoing learning by doing; b) village
participation; c) well conceived project design; and d) strong government commitment, good leadership by
individuals involved in designing and implementing the project, excellent supervision and engineering
support. The weaknesses included: a) targeting (QAG thought the poorest may not have been reached and
wished that the project had targeted villages in Eastern Indonesia); b) participation (in decision-making, as
most subprojects were roads); c) replicability (the QAG team thought the project enjoyed a level of support
other projects would not have); d) occasional inadequate subproject design and insufficient reporting and
follow up; and e) concems about sustainability and maintenance and about monitoring and evaluation.
- 3 -



(Uma Lele et al., QAG Review of East Asia Rural Poverty Reduction Projects, Annex 4, 1998, internal
document).
Clarifications provided by the project team in relation to the above weaknesses were as follows: a) VIP2
was not the only project in Indonesia and most of the poor are on Java followed by Sumatra; b) the fact that
roads were the most preferred subproject type would not have changed with more participation since the
village priority need was generally identified well before the project; c) it seemed unfair that QAG criticized
a project because of the high level of government ownership it enjoyed, and use this as a reason for
non-replicability -- it seems that good projects do attract good people; d) the occasional subproject faults
are undeniable -- but the low incidence was considered good; insufficient follow up/repairs in the few cases
needed was indeed an aspect that remained so until the end; and e) the concerns raised about maintenance
and monitoring are valid -- but QAG offered no solutions.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Highly satisfactory. Outcomes exceeded expectations. In terms of dollars, the project cost was lower than
expected. The cost in rupiah was higher. However, it will take many more rupiahs to repay the (reduced)
loan than foreseen at the project beginning, due to the rupiah devaluation. The project is likely to have
substantial development impact since it provided the highest priority to infrastructure and supporting
institutional benefits. There were no major shortcomings though the quality on Sumatra was not as good as
desired; still the intended village coverage was exceeded.
The design of the project was appropriate for achieving the objectives/outputs. The performance indicators
in the Loan Agreement were simple (number of villages to be assisted each project year) and appropriate to
the programmatic project design and the bottom-up decision making during implementation.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Infrastructure was built in 7,044 villages compared to the intended 2,600. Village funding was about
Rp863 billion compared to the originally intended Rp312 billion; allowing for some inflation, funding in
real terms more than doubled, and so did the amount of works done (inflation has not caught up with the
devaluation rate). Most of the funding went for labor or for the supply of local materials (also mostly
labor). The magnitude of output surpassed expectations. Annex I has details of the outcomes summarized
below.
Infrastructure. Villagers built a total 15,069 km of roads, 42.5 km of bridges, 4.9 km of piers, 8,722
communal water supply units, 4,877 communal sanitation units and also in the last year, 140 irrigation
systems, 58 markets and 84 other types of subprojects (retaining walls, small dams, drainage channels,
etc.). No target was set at the beginning and decisions were taken by villagers during project
implementation. The infrastructure is of low design standards to keep costs low. For instance, roads are
only up to 3 meters wide and stone-surfaced, with a few exceptions in Java where a few roads (totaling 272
km) were asphalted with additional funding from the districts. Still, bridges were built even longer than 48
meters, with wooden surface across steel beams; some suspension bridges are even longer (one is 190
meters long). Occasionally fording bridges were built. Water supply units are mostly piped systems to
distribute water from a spring or river to water tanks in the village, with public access. Sanitation units
comprised a latrine, washing and bathing areas for women and for men, a septic tank, leaching area and a
water source, usually a well. Irrigation systems were usually extensions of an existing system, after
verification that water would be sufficient. Markets, built in an appropriate village location, provided a
large area with a permanent roof, individual shop places, toilets, water and electricity, garbage disposal
- 4 -



facilities, parking area, etc. High construction quality was emphasized in all subprojects; for instance,
project roads had the required culverts and drainage.
The project team also prepared a fourth program year, being implemented by the Government with its own
funding.
Employment.
a) Villagers. A total of 1,942,144 persons worked on the project for 49.22 million person-days. Of the
workers, 13% were women, 30% youth, about 58% men. The average incentive pay increased over the
years, from some Rp3,000 to Rp6,000 for six hours, with rates slightly higher on Sumatra than on
Java. Skilled laborers, 6% of the total, received the market wage. The village administration team
could pay itself up to 5% of the village grant (and in no case did it take less).
b) Engineers. More than 700 field engineers and 30 senior engineers worked on the project; staff was all
Indonesian except for the overall team leader. Only 1-2% of the field engineers were women, with a
maximum of 9 in one year. Most engineers stayed on with the project not only because it paid better
but because they enjoyed the work. However, in the second and third years the project also employed
experienced public work construction engineers/supervisors who no longer had standard work because
of the economic crisis.
c) Officials. District engineers participated in the project; the last 2 project years more intensively as with
the crisis and cut back in programs they had little else to do.
Higher incomes. Village allocations totalled Rp863 billion. The direct villagers' income from working on
the project was about 40% of the allocations; the indirect income (from provision of materials such as
stone, also labor intensive) was another 40% or so; only the remainder 20% was for "outside" purchases
such as steel beams, cement, transport, etc. The average direct income per worker was Rpl22,000 the first
project year, Rp185,000 the second project year, and Rp210,000 the third, a non-negligible addition to
incomes as low as $100 per year. Only 10-20% of the village populations worked directly on the project;
this should have ensured that only the neediest had access to the unskilled work, that was low paying thus
enforcing self targeting. The infrastructure benefits have further increased villagers' incomes subsequently
(see economic section and annex). The project was also important for the consultant engineers.
Training. Village administration teams were trained; they indicated in surveys that they had learned from
the project and could employ the skills in other projects. Project engineers went through intensive training
(labor intensive works, team work, community approaches, code of ethics, reporting, lateral thinking,
planning, speaking in public, etc.). District officials also had some training, especially the third year in
preparation for them taking over the program management. This had a good institution building impact.
Maintenance. Villagers are responsible for maintenance after construction. They were to be trained in
maintenance activities and to prepare a maintenance plan--this did not always happen.
Infrastructure repairs. The last project year a survey of both VIP and VIP2 infrastructure was made to
ascertain required repairs due to faulty construction or force majeure--not lack of maintenance. As a result
130 villages received materials and advice, but were not provided incentive payments to do the repair work.
Monitoring.
a) Monitoring was done by the project team on a continuous basis, including data collection on benefits
-5 -



and impacts in every project village and subsequent analysis for each project year. Electronic data
bases and reports are available.
b) An NGO was hired the last project year to conduct an independent monitoring of the overall project.
The output is acceptable. An electronic database is available.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
With only the infrastructure benefits, the project cost has a rate of return higher than 30%. The full impact
of the project infrastructure built will become clearer in some years, as it will last many years, but already
impact reports and reports on beneficiaries show good results--even if as could be expected, some
subprojects have a negative return (e.g. a road buried under a landslide following heavy rains, though it
was rebuilt). The monitoring results inform the numbers; more details are in Annex 3. In addition to direct
benefits from the infrastructure built, there are other benefits such as employment and income generation at
a time of crisis, the institutional development and training, health benefits--but these benefits are not
quantified in this ICR and would only increase the rate of return.
Villagers' first infrastructure choice is an access road or a bridge, without a need for much discussion.
When access is in place, and unless the village has an adequate source, the second choice is water supply;
this mostly entails discussion as to the placement/distribution of communal tanks and outlets within the
village, since each house cannot be connected. Bathing, washing and sanitation (latrines and septic tanks)
units (MCKs) tend to be a lower priority, except in dense, more urbanized villages, villages that already
have water supply, or where such units are built along with the new water supply system. A few coastal
villages chose to build a pier. The last project year the menu was enlarged and then some markets,
retaining walls, irrigation systems and other facilities were also built. Overall almost 80% of the village
projects are roads or bridges, which make the economic analysis of these the more relevant.
Transportation costs were reported to have declined some 40% (average; correcting for inflation) with the
new project road/bridge; it was also reported that increased traffic generated more benefits than unit cost
reductions. Villagers were able to capture the benefits. Lower transport cost and new all weather
accessibility resulted in increased production, even in changing the products, and higher prices at village
level; school attendance increased and access to medical services improved. Once new access roads were
built, electricity could follow: normally lines are installed only when the electric company trucks have
access. Thus, a number of villages went in the course of 2-3 years from isolation and kerosene lamps, to
accessibility and electric appliances: quite a difference in lifestyle and in incomes. An unintended road
effect observed in a few instances, was an accelerated tree felling as even heavy log trucks could ply the
new roads. Villages were urged to install portals on the roads, and many did, to stop heavy vehicles (to
avoid heavy loads rutting road surfaces especially if wet). The road cost is more than recovered by
transport benefits alone even if the roads last less than 5 years. With appropriate maintenance and traffic
control roads should last some 10 years in good condition (based on observations of VIP roads). Some
districts donated liquid asphalt to seal VIP roads; asphalt keeps fine surface aggregates in place but makes
maintenance by villagers more difficult. In all, less than 1% of the roads were asphalted. Eventually, the
roads will need upgrading due to traffic growth; then the project works will be considered a first stage; it is
good to proceed in stages for better base settlement prior to hard asphalting.
Clean drinking water made available under the project reduced morbidity, particularly in children, in
addition to reducing the time and cost of obtaining water, particularly affecting women--but pinpointing a
value for these benefits remains difficult. In instances the water was provided to mosques on a priority
basis. Some villages built the system to enable subsequent extension and also connection by households.
Only a few units were reported to have insufficient water in the dry season; in such cases, rationing is
- 6 -



necessary but villagers had to be told of such a solution, rather than just let the households closest to the
source use up the water. Most systems are gravity systems, intaking water from a spring, rather than wells
or pumps. Systems built are likely to last for many years, more than 15, depending on the performance of
the PVC pipes. The weak link was the faucets, as the poor quality faucets available could not withstand
heavy communal use and children's play. Thus, faucets were often replaced with simple and low cost
rubber or wooden pegs as effective as faucets. Drainage was not always satisfactory at the communal
source or washing points, or protection adequate at the water catchment point. The cost of the project
systems were well below costs of similar ones by the municipal water enterprises. Arrangements for
maintenance including cash contributions if necessary to buy spare parts, were agreed.
Sanitation (MCK) buildings became better as the project progressed, as villagers were allowed more say in
designs. The standard design included in the Project Manual from an older Public Works design, included
rooms too small for a woman and a child, but despite repeated objections from the Bank team, it continued
m the Manual and field engineers changed practice only slowly. And despite repeated requests by the Bank
team to have septic tanks built with man-holes to facilitate cleaning, many septic tanks only had a vent pipe
through which they could be pumped out. (Thus a few latrines became unusable even shortly after being
built; in one case, a plastic bag had gone down the drain and was then stopping all inflow.) In instances,
lack of cleaning resulted in abandoning latrines. But a majority of units work and each unit is used by
several families or by many individuals at mosques and village meeting places (a few units in the last
project years), so that the expenditure is justified even if overall sanitation units may have the lowest return
among infrastructure types in the project.
Markets and irrigation systems were allowed and built only the last project year. Markets provided concrete
floors under permanent roofs; they included MCKs and a garbage disposal location; had to have parking
and loading/unloading space; and their location had to fit the town plan -- often markets were built next to
the village meeting building, on donated public land, and will eventually be in a "town center". Market
planning included an up front stall allocation and a user fee structure; village administrators reckoned they
could recover the full construction cost and use the funds not only for market maintenance and operating
costs (water and electricity) but for other initiatives in the village. Irrigation systems built under the
project were normally extensions or upgrading/lining of existing systems, after verification that sufficient
water was available and obtaining of a permit from/consultation with the district irrigation agency. Water
sharing and a maintenance fee systems were normally already in place among the villagers. Some
beneficiaries reckoned the system allowed 2 yearly crops instead of one, or shifting to more profitable crop
types -- irrigation pays for itself in a few years but villagers did not have the capital to build the systems
prior to the project assistance.
Some other types of infrastructure were also built. Many retaining walls, a few piers in coastal villages,
draining channels, small dams, ponds, and a boat channel. All proposals had to be the village priority,
feasible within the maximum subproject allocation, and well justified to be approved by the project
management. Again, it is hard to pinpoint a rate of return. No public buildings such as schools or offices or
mosques, were allowed; the former have separate public programs, the latter received much village
donations. It is likely that indirectly the project helped improve many mosques; over the project years,
much mosque upgrading could be seen.
The number of beneficiaries of the VIP2 infrastructure is large: more than 6 million persons (village
surveys report many more, see Annex 3), mostly in project villages but also in some neighboring villages
that can use the infrastructure, especially roads and bridges. The population of villages assisted is some 20
million.
-7 -



4.4 Financial rate of returni:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact has been considerable. It disseminated the concepts of
villages being in charge of their own programs; of increased transparency and accountability in public
programs even while leaving flexibility to implementers; of quality of works; of providing women equal
opportunity; of prompt implementation with technical assistance to villagers themselves. The project has
provided at least a step forward in the development process, by providing training and institutional
development in addition to the physical infrastructure. The concepts were included in a number of other
projects and now, in a government program (see Section 6, Sustainability).
In villages: a) the new democratic climate supports the VIP concept -- after the change of Government
some villages ousted their chiefs, demanded more transparency and accountability and occasionally
retribution; b) some people feared that paid work under the project would affect the Indonesian custom of
communal self-help work without pay--this did not happen. Beneficiaries were aware that the project
provided for capital expenditures that they could not cover otherwise, for work that required more time over
a short period than a few days of volunteering could muster. And despite potential wages, participation was
not high when villagers disagreed with the village chief, as happened in a few instances; the incentive wage
was not enough a motivation by itself. The real test is the subsequent maintenance, that has to be done with
unpaid village contributions. This effort can be expected to be uneven; and c) even in areas where it had
been said that tradition was against women participating, women did work on the project, both on Java and
on Sumatra. Participation of women could no doubt have been higher; village leaders had an impact on the
participation level. Training, increased participation, sense of empowerment, and other project features
should be helpful in the future.
Engineering capacity. A cadre of engineers was formed with ability to work directly with villagers and
undertake civil works at low cost. Field engineers are available for new programs. They have formed an
association so they can also benefit from overheads that previously were captured by shell firms. About
500 engineers are currently employed in GOI's program prepared under the project.
Government agencies. a) The manuals and procedures produced, the new approaches, the training, the
MIS and monitoring developed, the field work, remain useful for follow on activities; and b) The audit
agency, BPKP, for the first time did village level audits, and agreed to accept some minor procedural
changes to GOI standards if they were true to the stated objectives of the project.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Economic crisis. The economic crisis that started late 1997, and few may have foreseen, lasted through the
project implementation period, though in 1999 the worst was over. The crisis impact was deepest in urban
areas, and particularly in the largest cities on Java, where industries and investment/services are
concentrated. The rural areas were more resilient, and were even able to reabsorb migrant workers who had
lost their livelihoods in the urban areas. Thus the project tumed out to be a source of employment, albeit
temporary, also to some of the migrants returning to their villages.
The devaluation of the rupiah, from Rp2,500 per US dollar to even as much as Rpl5,000 over short
periods, was beyond control, even as the IMF and the Indonesia Central Bank spent billions trying to
stabilise the rupiah. Eventually, the rupiah settled back to around Rp8,000 per US dollar. This devaluation
meant that the loan could provide more than twice the amount of rupiahs foreseen at appraisal.
- 8 -



Political changes. The economic crisis precipitated in 1998 the downfall of the 30 year old regime of
President Suharto. The political changes did not stop the project, if anything, they promoted it and
enhanced its sustainability.
Sumatra. Implementation on Sumatra was difficult, as had been foreseen. Still, a majority of villages did
well, and the infrastructure built is useful. The smaller and more dispersed villages and to some extent,
more difficult terrain, made labor intensive methods less suitable; machinery was necessary for some work.
In addition, rural wages tend to be higher on Sumatra, as agriculture is not subsistence oriented but based
on profitable, short work-days on oil palm and rubber plantations, or other cash crops such as red peppers,
coffee, nilam, etc. More generally, the petroleum and export oriented economy of Sumatra has higher
prices. Local agencies down to village chiefs tended to keep their top-down approach instead of respecting
the project design that called for villager decision-making; thus villagers were not as well infonned and
were less interested in the project. The most difficult area was North Sumatra, particularly the island Nias
off the west coast, where program fund balances had to be retumed by some villages. Sumatra was in
OECF's program the previous years.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Good management and coordination. While the project design seems deceptively simple at the village
level, it involves a complex number of support activities and of agencies that require close coordination and
quite some effort. The Government had an unfailing commitment to the project. Bappenas' Project
Manager, the same person who started VIP and performed very well, was rewarded with a promotion to
Bureau Chief. He kept close supervision of the project and also appointed another dedicated Project
Manager. This new Project Manager became a Program Manager as he was also entrusted within
Bappenas with the handling of the emergency relief operations, and thus a second Project Manager who
could work full time on the VIP was appointed. He had support staff to handle essentially the contracting
and coordination with other agencies, though coordination was also handled at the Deputy Minister level
(the Deputy for Regional Development).
The Ministry of Home Affairs, Regional Bureau, also coordinated activities with the provincial and district
levels. The Public Works and Home Affairs district staff often supervised the subprojects. The Ministry of
Finance provided coordination with and funding through its regional offices (though local budgets were
usually late). The Audit Bureau (BPKP) mobilized its local agencies to perform audits at the village level
(which was unprecedented). Most provincial level offices also made good contributions to the project. Most
officials involved performed to the highest standards. Upon completion, the GOI project managers
(Pimpros) requested a certificate of participation in VIP, that was being given to the field engineers by
Bappenas.
Somewhat latefund release. The Government had to provide for its own increased administration costs and
only 10% counterpart funds to the village allocations, the loan covering technical assistance funding at
100%. MoF provided the initial instalment to villages (to avoid "prefmancing" from the Bank); initial funds
were to be available in June every program year, so as to take advantage of the dry season for construction
activities and also to have a longer implementation period (until March 30, end of the fiscal year). At the
district level, the first year funds were available on time (June-July) but funds became available later and
later and were released with the rest of the budget--October and even November--in 1999/2000, far too
late, in the context of the crisis. Even so, the lateness seems unexplicable given that funds were available
under the loan, GOI only had to provide a 10%; and the MoF did not request replenishments of the SA as
quickly as it could have. Lateness affected work efficiency and quality. Local govemnments' funding of
their own costs was always late.
-9-



Increased VIP coverage. The Government, promptly decided in early 1998 to increase the village coverage
for the 1998/99 program year so as to increase employment provision with the additional rupiah available
from the loan. The extent of the increase (though almost double) was cautious, due to implementation
capacity constraints and because the future exchange rate was uncertain and the program cost had to stay
within the loan availability even if the rupiah appreciated back. As eventually the exchange rate stayed
around Rp8,000 per US dollar, the increased village coverage did not exhaust the loan funds. Thus, a third
(unplanned) program year was added for Java and Bali that assisted 2596 villages, following competitive
selection.
Other "crisis" related programs. In order to increase employment, partly with domestic funding enabled by
adjustment programs, the Government embarked on a widespread rural public works program, to a great
extent similar to the VIP. This program (PDM-DKI) operated in villages not covered by VIP2, so that a
majority if not all villages received some form of public employment program in the FY1998/99. One
difference was the understandable lesser preparation of the emergency operation. Another difference had
more of an impact on VIP2: the emergency program specified a higher daily wage, which created some
grumbling in VIP villagers. Though villagers set their own pay under VIPs, they did so before the
PDM-DKI program was announced; then it was impressed on villagers that the trade-off to higher wages
was less materials, and thus the infrastructure built would be of smaller scale or different, and less publicly
beneficial. Many VIP villagers chose to continue with the "historical", lower incentive pay.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Very good management. Bappenas acted promptly in all matters requiring action. Modalities of VIP were
adapted as time progressed, to suit evolving needs. The Government increased the village allocation to
compensate for the crisis-generated inflation, from Rp 120 million in 1997/98 to Rp140 million in 1998/99;
and up to Rp150 million in 1999/2000. As by that time many villages had been assisted, targeting no
longer made sense, so for the 1999/2000 program funds were not preallocated to specific villages in a given
amount, but a long list of villages, selected on the basis of needs, were invited to submit infrastructure
proposals. The best proposals were eventually approved and the allocation met the cost of the approved
proposal, up to a maximum per village. This change was also in preparation for the government
institutionalizing the approach and funding it with domestic resources, as is happening in FY2000. Another
change was that field engineers were hired under more and smaller contracts the last year (9 contracts
instead of 3), in preparation for decentralization of the contracting process that so far had been handled
from Bappenas, in Jakarta, to keep uniformity under the project.
Adapting the Program for Sumatra. The field engineers, who were new to the concept, had longer travel
times as village clusters were more spread out than on Java, and thus they had less time in the villages;
eventually, more field engineers were assigned. But given the difficulties and the lesser need, Sumatra was
left out of VIP2's third program year, and included again in OECF's program; this, however, was changed
into a VIP hybrid, as it gave villagers rather than agencies, control over contractors. The Kecamatan
Development Project also covers subdistricts on Sumatra, the number increasing over the years; KDP
provides a broader menu (not only infrastructure), a longer project period in each subdistrict (3 years) and
a more intense village project dissemination up front.
Minimizing corruption. The VIPs set new standards in Indonesia. The design of the project, that
highlighted transparency in the use of funds, meant that villagers could know the village allocation and how
it was used--a novelty. Field engineers had to abide by a Code of Ethics; anyone found contravening the
principles, was fired (5 in 1999). Anyone having appropriated funds had to return them (a few village
administrations and a subdistrict chief). In a survey of 500 villages, answers pointed to no malfeasance in
- 10 -



89% of villages on Java, and in 77% of villages on Sumatra.
There must be instances of corruption which were not detected under supervision. It is almost certain that
some village administrators gave contracts to preferred suppliers, but overall project prices could not be
much higher than prevailing market prices since these were publicly known. It is not clear how real
competition was for the engineering contracts. Rate brackets were set by Bappenas for consultants, and
rates had to be similar across engineering contracts so as not to cause friction among field engineers. Most
field engineers were not pre-existing employees of the consulting firms (no firm would have had so many
field engineers); no field engineer could be included in 2 competing proposals, but after selection of the
winning firm, engineers proposed by the losing firms went to work for the winning firm. A firm that had
misreported the identity of a team of field engineers (even though the field engineers involved had the
requisite background and qualifications) has not been rehired by Bappenas.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The cost in dollars was lower for all components even with the increased village coverage and more project
years, because of the depreciation of the rupiah and most costs being "domestic" (except for the expatriate
team leader and some equipment). The cost in rupiah was more than twice the original estimate (Annex 2).
Technical assistance remained slightly above 10% of village allocations. In addition to these costs, surveys
found that villagers made contributions valued on average at 7% of the village allocations, half in land (at
nominal prices), 25% in unpaid labor, 10% in materials. Government overhead cost for the program was
6% the first 2 years (1% at the national level, 1% at the province and 4% at the district level); the final
year, overheads were 8.5% (1.5% at the province level but 1% of which funded by the center, and 7% at
the district level, of which 5% funded by the center). The last year had more training and supervision from
districts.
The loan balance could have financed another activity, but the MoF wanted to minimize its (project) debt
and proceeded with a new program year with "domestic" funds, essentially counterpart funds of adjustment
financing. So MoF requested a partial loan cancellation of $10 million, that became effective December
13, 1999, as it was then clear this amount would not be needed whatever happened with the exchange rate.
MoF requested a fruther cancellation of $9 million just before the loan closing date, on July 11, 2000; only
the outstanding loan balance at the World Bank of $2.6 million could be and was cancelled on August 3,
2000. Loan cancellations totaled $20.9 million and reduced the loan amount to $119.2 million.  Loan
financing by category is as shown below:
Cost, $ million         Loan allocations, $ million
Category                        Original Actual          Orginal Amended  Final
Small infrastructure            130.0   117.8 1/         117.0   107.0    106.0
TA for Implementation           18.0     13.0            (20.8   20.5       13.2
TA for Monitoring                2.8      0.2
Contingencies                    2.3    --                2.3     -        -
Increased Govt. Administration   6.5      7.0             -
Total                   159.6   138.0           140.1   127.5    119.2
Cancellation Dec. 13, 1999                                        10.0
Cancellation July 11, 2000                                         2.6
Final cancellation                                                          8.3 21
1/ does not include voluntary village contributions valued at 7% of village grants.
2/ pending return of funds from the SA.
The Ministry of Finance prefinanced the first instalment to villages assisted under the project, given that the
Special Account was not allowed to make such advances at the time (this restriction was lifted in
- 11 -



subsequent emergency operations such as the Urban Poverty Project). Eventually, it also prefinanced some
of the subsequent instalments and technical assistance costs, though it didn't have to.
Loan disbursements consistently lagged the initial projection, both because of the devaluation of the rupiah
and most costs being domestic, and because of prefmancing by the Government and delayed reimbursement
requests. The Government had to be reminded from time to time to disburse the loan funds; it seemed that
the adjustment funding was providing enough liquidity to prefinance the project. GOI requested KPKNs to
return some village fund balances, and this is still in process. Project expenditures for consultants
continued until the loan closing date, so the final disbursements were made in the four month grace period.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating.
Sustainability can relate to the infrastructure built, and to the institutional approach:
a) Infrastructure is generally expected to last its intended economic life. In most instances the
infrastructure built provides clear benefits to villagers who therefore would maintain the facilities to
continue receiving the benefits for 10-15 years. The village practice of self-help work (gotong royong)
is particularly suited to maintenance activities, that require little or no cash -- but even so,
sustainability of maintenance remains the most difficult aspect. The sustainability is uncertain mostly
for sanitation facilities (required maintenance work may outweigh perceived benefits).
b) Procedures and practices the project introduced are likely to be sustained, as they are supported by
villagers, local officials and the decentralization policies the new Government has introduced. They
have been replicated in other ongoing projects. It remains to be seen how successful the VIP concept
can remain when it is no longer an "exceptional project", may no longer have dedicated field engineers
swom to a Code of Ethics, and independent supervision to act as a supra-conscience of local officials.
Even so, the main uncertainty rests with GOI funding, in these times of budget cuts across the board
and GOI's domestic funding of a VIP program (see below).
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Program continuity. A new village infrastructure program for FY2000 (now January-December) was
prepared in the last months of the VIP2 . The mechanisms were in place, as were trained engineers,
administrators and a management team, comprising senior engineers and managers who worked under
VIP2. The field engineers have been contracted in their preferred centralized procurement process. Village
allocations are up to Rp225 million. A second KDP will further continue VIP features with IDA funding;
preparation is underway for a project start in 2002.
The third year under the project (1999/2000) was the transition year from a targeted program to a recurrent
budget program. A long term program requires different modalities than a targeted short one. (The second
project year would have had the transition features but the economic crisis and the ensuing need to greatly
expand project coverage at short notice meant there was no time to change modalities as well that year.)
While at first there was grumbling about changed modalities (don't fix what is not broken...), by the end of
the year the new modalities were accepted as better for the wider purpose:
a) The village targeting was replaced by a system of requesting proposals from villages and providing
funds to the most deserving proposals; this means that a village may receive funding more than once.
However, villages that performed poorly, or that did not maintain properly the infrastructure built, are
not eligible for another grant.
- 12 -



b) The menu of options was enlarged; the original menu, in addition to specifying five, allowed for "other"
types of infrastructure but despite repeated clarifications, only the five types were pursued and some
80% of the funds went for road improvements. The current menu wording makes the openness clearer,
but probably road improvements will continue to predominate.
c) The fixed allocation per selected village, that was adopted for transparency purposes at the start of the
project, was turned into variable allocations to reflect the cost of the approved proposal, within a
minimum and a maximum allocation.
d) The role of Public Works project managers (Pimpros) at district levels changed with more field work
added to a mostly administrative role. (In fact, by choice some Pimpros were already active in the VIP
field supervision supporting the work of the supervising consultant engineers). The Pimpros have to
verify the soundness and cost estimates of proposals submitted by villages, and later, supervise work
and administration at the villages.
e) The role of the district Planning Agencies (Bappedas) changed from one of proposing long lists of
villages, to inviting villages to submit proposals and then, considering also the technical reviews by
Pimpros, to selecting villages to receive funds. Local offices have been strengthened with staff from
Jakarta under the decentralization process, so that capacity exists.
f) The central government project team no longer does active administration but continues to advise,
provide the manual/criteria and standardised procedures, training, coordination meetings and trouble
shooting, and general oversight. Bappenas recommends allocations by district.
g) Hiring of the field engineers was made under more and smaller contracts the third project year to ease
the way to decentralization.
Maintenance oJfinfrastructure built under VIPs. To receive project grants villages had to agree to maintain
the facilities built, given that public funds will always be insufficient to cover maintenance of village level
infrastructure. Not all villages fulfill the obligation. There is an incentive as villages that maintain facilities
are eligible for new grants. In case deterioration occurs for reasons other than inadequate maintenance,
allowances have to be made to continue to assist deserving villages. A common cause for road deterioration
is overuse -- use beyond the bearing capacity of the construction standards. Most likely the low design
standard roads built will need upgrading as higher traffic gradually justifies it; in time the roads may
become part of the tertiary network with maintenance responsibility vested in the Public Works department
(villagers may continue doing the routine maintenance). Sanitation units are the least maintained; public
awareness programs may be required to improve the situation.
Peformance indicators/monitoring. The project had continuous central monitoring (embodied in the
computerized management infonmation system) which included monthly updates by villages in tenns of
outputs, inputs, supervision effort and problems. Project emphasis has been on community empowerment
and reliance on communities' good judgement and responsibility for decisions on public infrastructure. The
follow-on program relies on competition across villages and across budget types, the need to comply with
minimum criteria, and on supervision, to achieve the best results. (See also Section 8, Lessons Learned.)
Follow up by the Bank. A second, modified KDP has already been mentioned. The best general follow-up
by the Bank at this stage could be the provision of technical assistance and training to local agencies to
improve their performance and initiatives in handling their increased budgets in the new context of
- 13 -



decentralization and anti-corruption efforts. However, GOI also needs and wants to reduce its public debt
and is understandably reluctant to borrow for "intangibles" and cannot easily or cheaply reduce or change
its own staff. Foreign consultants are very expensive (one man-month possibly costing around a man-year
of local consultant) but local consultants are not well suited to introduce new approaches. Applying the
yardstick that a consultant is worth the cost if the benefits they generate exceeds the cost, then the more
effective process of improvement in Indonesia may well be to simply allow local officials to experiment and
learn on-the-job without penalty for honest mistakes and strong penalties for corruption. The Bank could
explore whether it has any comparative advantage in helping the Government in reviewing such a
bottom-up system, and more broadly, assisting good domestic programs.
Some niches for Bank/IDA assistance worth exploring are: a) information technology, systems and
equipment to update public administration and services; b) training of judges and auditors, to assist the
enforcement of decentralized systems; c) advice and dissemination on intemational practices and
developments; d) review of trade-offs between higher initial road construction standards and realistic
maintenance possibilities; (while it would be good to help with maintenance, the Bank does not have a
success record in this field); and e) mainstreaming composting toilets.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Highly satisfactory. VIP2 identification was provided through the VIP. Preparation cost was minimal. The
implementation project team and the Bank staff team prepared the project, working intensively and hiring
only one Indonesian consulting firm to review the appropriateness of extending the project coverage to
Sumatra. This fim's team did more extensive rapid rural assessments than the Government and Bank team
had time for but it did not provide new insights; rather, it understated the risks, as was the Government's
wish, in order to include Sumatra in VIP2. There was no need for new economic or sector work to
substantiate the basics. The Bank and the Government decided to continue VIP with two projects. One
(VIP2), continued immediately after VIP with the same features and included Sumatra on a test basis. The
other -- the Kecamatan Development Project (KDP) -- was being prepared through a pilot under VIP, with
broader features and would be ready for appraisal about a year later. A separate team, comprising staff
that had participated in supervision of VIP, worked on the KDP identification/preparation. The VIP2 was
coordinated with OECF's village assistance, that was also continuing in areas off-Java.
The detailed implementation plan included a schedule by month. The short implementation timing (only two
years for village works), the large targets, replicable "franchise" type interventions--were all adequate.
Proceeding on Sumatra was not explicitly stated as a risk, but it was agreed that if progress was less than
fully satisfactory there, the coverage would cease, and this was the case.
The lending instrument, a Sector Investment Loan (SIL), was appropriate. The altemative of simple budget
support would not have achieved the changes introduced, support at local levels and the technical quality. A
simple technical assistance project would not have had timely funds in the villages. The procedures were
consistent with the applicable Bank's safeguard policies. Few covenants were in the Loan Agreement; few
were necessary given the structure of the project.
7.2 Supervision:
Highly satisfactory. Supervision was intense. The standard was three field Bank supervision missions per
year, each team dividing into 3 subteams in order to visit more villages and local agencies including the
Bank Rakyat Indonesia branch that disbursed the village funds. Short visits were also made at any time by
Jakarta-based staff. In the last project year some 300 villages were visited by the Bank teams, a large
- 14 -



number even if only some 10% of the villages assisted that year. Field trips were most often directed at
districts lagging in schedule and performance (identified from up-to-date progress reports), to help them
improve. Villages visited were selected at random by the Bank staff at the district office before proceeding
to them right away, but, the village administrators had to be advised to ensure they would be present. When
distances between villages or clusters were long (as they usually were), it was sensible to visit one village
of each cluster of 5 villages assigned to the same field engineer, as each field engineer usually achieved
similar quality in all their villages.
The number of people along the Bank's village visits tended to be around ten, partly for training purposes.
They comprised the provincial and senior engineers and of course the field engineer(s); the Bappeda,
MoHA and DPW representatives; often staff from Jakarta, junior staff to learn and even senior staff
interested for the policy aspects. The agency staff each produced a supervision report. The Bank
supervision team comprised consistently the same 3-4 Bank staff; this provided uniform understanding of
what was seen, eased comparisons and identification of problems and enhanced the capacity to advise. The
team was balanced (2 engineers, 1 financial expert, 1 economist/ TTL) and at headquarters had the
continued support of one disbursement officer and one lawyer (only the lawyer did not get to visit villages).
The same person was task manager/team leader throughout the project. Occasionally and especially at the
beginning, more Bank staff participated in village supervision (later on KDP). The Government's project
team also intensely supervised the project, with continuous presence in the field by senior engineers, review
meetings and discussions of problems perceived with field engineers, etc. The Bank and the government
teams in fact worked as one.
The field supervision reporting was detailed, comprising a summary including general administration and
other matters and a summary and detailed annexes with findings at the village and local levels. Each
supervision visit reviewed in Jakarta the work plan for the following months, including awareness of lag
times involved in actions coming due to ensure a timely implementation. Aide memoires were left each time.
The project dispensed with the need for a management letter sent some time after the mission confirming
the aide memoire (general Bank procedure), because with e-mail, the Division Chief/Sector Director could
comment on the draft aide memoire before the final version was left with Bappenas. Bappenas took care of
dissemination of the aide memoire.
In addition to field supervision, there was intense exchange of communications by email principally, daily
at peak times. Procurement for engineers was repeated annually and four no objection letters were required
in each contract's process. The TTL provided these promptly. Comments on reports were also provided
promptly by the TTL. During the third project year, procurement was delayed by Bappenas, one argument
being the need to await budget confirmation by MoF first.
The changes introduced in the program only required an exchange of letters between the Government and
the Bank; these were done promptly. The principal loan amendments were the increase in the number of
villages, the inclusion of Bali, the changes in the village allocation amounts (the second year, increased
from Rpl2O million to Rpl4O million to partly make up for inflation; the third year, made variable and up
to Rpl50 million reflecting subproject costs and the imnpact of the crisis), the extension of the closing date
(by 6 months, to accommodate a third project year), and two partial loan cancellations, one in December
1999 as part of an omnibus cancellation and another in July 2000.
Instances of corruption were identified, and measures taken against offenders. One person sent repeated
letters even to the Presidents of the Bank and of Indonesia claiming that project funds were diverted (and
wanted a Bank compensation to the people of Indonesia of billions of dollars). Despite a thorough
investigation by the Bank team, no diversion could be identified. (Instead, it was found that an engineering
-15 -



firm had misrepresented the identity of some field engineers even though they had the required
qualifications -- to avoid administrative procedures was the explanation -- the firm has not had further
contracts.)
The World Bank office in Jakarta has been supportive of the project. The disbursement officer was an
integral part of the project team throughout. The (now Principal) anthropologist participated in the early
stages until he switched to the KDP. A senior engineer assisted in the last project year with field
supervision. The resident Country Director presided over the country implementation review mentioned
above. The office increasingly monitors audits and events/claims of corruption under all projects.
The Project Status Report (PSR) ratings were "satisfactory". As is inevitable with a project assisting 3,000
villages in one year, there were problems, but these were relatively small and thus acceptable within a
project supervision rating of highly satisfactory (HS). Overall, probably some 20% of the project villages
had some sort of problem, big or small, corrected or not; the problem incidence was acceptable because the
cost of reducing it, in terms of added supervision effort, would have outweighed the benefits gained.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Highly satisfactory. The team (including lawyer, disbursement officer, assistant dealing with the MIS and
of course field supervision team members) performed very well because of good work organization and
planning. The yearly supervision budget was sufficient. Despite the large geographical coverage of the
project, the total supervision cost was less than that of most projects, as VIP2 was completed in 3 years
while most projects last 5-6 years. Dissemination was widespread; the project was presented at various
seminars at HQs, one on rural infrastructure, another on rural development, one specifically on the project,
and at some brown bag lunches; VIP was also featured in Bank articles.
A Bank reorganization took place during the project, causing the changes, twice, of sector and country
directors and vice president. As the project was problem free, Bank management has been hands-off, except
for the first partial loan cancellation (agreed during a country implementation review that followed the
economic crisis which perceived the need for adjustment liquidity). Many Bank managers and other
non-VIP staff have visited project villages. Staff working on other countries and their counterparts came to
see first hand the project in order to adapt the experience for their countries and have developed similar
projects there (Guinea, Vietnam, China among others). The Manual was translated into French.
The project attracted quite a number of independent Bank reviews:
a) QAG review at entry undertaken in November 1997 (see earlier section 3.5). This indicated that the
project showed potential for "best practice".
b) QAG Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA 3) desk review undertaken in July 1999. This review
initially rated the project as "marginal" on implementation. It was difficult for the task team to
understand how QAG ratings could change from "best practice" at entry to "marginal" in the space of
18 months. The team felt that the QSA ratings were based on misunderstandings of the project
concept, and the working modalities of the team (particularly in relation to communication with the
client and handling of problems). There was also a failure to consider all material available (including
e mail) and a difference of technical opinion on one project component. The marginal QAG rating also
surprised Government, who considered this a model project. After receiving clarification from the Task
Team and other familiar with the project, QAG raised the rating to "satisfactory".
(It is worth noting that QAG later (February-March 2000) reviewed the RSA process. The purpose of
- 16-



this review was to assess the strengths and weaknesses of RSA and to make recommendations for
improvements. Review reconimendations of relevance to VIP 2 are:
*   Panels should seek consultations with task teams on outstanding issues before and after preparing
their draft reports, even if this adds to the RSA exercise. Also, if there appears to be relevant, but
missing infornation, rather than simply proceeding on the assumption that it does not exist,
panelists should ask for the required informnation.
*   QAG should develop a clear policy on how to assess the growing number of cases of field-based
supervision, which entails virtually daily contact with the clients. And, as far as possible, client
representatives should be interviewed by the panels.)
c) In addition to QAG, three other "central" Bank units found the project attractive to review, and had it
reviewed even in the field and even without informing the VIP2 TTL of either the intention to review or
of the resulting opinions. One such review was by an Indonesian NGO hired by a Bank unit. Another
review was by IRIS, a University of Mawyland entity hired by another Bank unit, whose findings were
positive. A third Bank unit focused on the water supply component resulting in another positive review
(prior to the QAG RSA).
d) The Indonesia Thematic Supervision of February 1999 also included VIP2 and found it satisfactory.
e) OED also made a field visit in July 2000 to 20 VIP villages in Yogyakarta and Central Java, as part of
an audit of rural development projects in Indonesia. The TTL provided contacts. The OED team spent
several weeks in the provinces, assisted by the VIP engineers, and concluded that the VIP outcome was
very positive and likely to be sustainable.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The Government acted in a timely manner with all the steps needed for project preparation. It
also provided the required resources and information dissemination as was needed. Only the review of
Sumatra was not good as desired. Government commitment and capacity to implement the project were
evident; the project was in line with the Government's strategy and was one of its main priorities. The
Government chose to delay loan effectiveness until it needed to start disbursing the funds, as preparation
work was completed earlier than necessary.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. Previous ICR sections have explained this rating. Throughout, the project benefitted from
having the same excellent consultant team leader and Bappenas Manager (even as he was promoted) and
having very supportive counterparts in other Ministries (Finance, Home Affairs, Public Works). (The QAG
review at entry indicated that replicating the project might be difficult because the high support by and
quality of government staff was considered unusual.) The government staff at district and provincial levels
were dedicated to and supportive of the project, especially in the second and third years, during the crisis
and aftermath, as the VIP2 was one of the few projects working and that provided cash and employment to
villagers. The covenants in the legal agreement were complied with.
The performance rating would have been highly satisfactory but for:
a) Some unsatisfactory district/subdistrict level agency staff performance. Also, fearing the auditors,
occasionally officials delayed required VIP processes that did not fully reflect the standard GOI
procedures. Audit teams visited a sample (about 10%) of villages every year; this was new for the audit
- 17 -



agency that normally simply audited books in provincial capitals. All audits have been unqualified
though problems were identified. Sometimes the problem was due to a misunderstanding of the project
rules, that required fewer papers than the standard GOI procedures. The auditors did a comendable job,
although some auditors were reported to have asked for money.
b) Late release of funds by MoF. The delays affected the usefulness of the engineers' time, the quality of
works (that had to be hurried and often done in the rainy season), and probably the prices (from
bunching demand).
c) In the crisis years, the Government implemented an emergency project designed along the VIP2 model
and expanding assistance to more villages. The emergency project offered a higher daily wage and this
sometimes created some temporary problems for VIP2.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Highly satisfactory. Some of the aspects mentioned above relate to the implementation agency, Bappenas.
The management team at Jakarta was very effective. Also worth mentioning,
a) Project reporting was of high quality and timely. Village progress by month-end was emailed (or sent in
diskettes) from the districts by day 8 or so of the following month, and summaries by district were
emailed to the Bank about day 10. All information was entered into a computerized data base that is
now available for others. In addition, the monthly and quarterly progress reports were very good.
b) Training of field engineers was very good. Field engineeers felt an esprit the corps and were dedicated
and proud of their work.
c) The Bappenas team consistently took the required actions and on time, except for:
i) some of the improvements required by the Bank team in villages following village visits. This
frustrating shortcoming was partly because of the fact that correcting problems is difficult, but also
because the senior engineers tended to dismiss the Bank's comments and knew that Bank staff
could not revisit all locations to check on corrective actions. Eventually the organization of
supervising consultant engineers (government team) was changed to improve the quality and follow
up in both years 2 and 3 of the project, and to adapt to changes in implementation procedures in
year 3;
ii) some of the procurement actions were late and then required an ovemight response by the TTL in
order to meet deadlines;
iii) Bappenas required extensive statement of expenditure documentation from engineering finns, and
this requirement more often than not delayed payments. Bappenas did not pay late payment
penalties (as stipulated in contracts following Bank rules), and also did not pay partially those
parts of a bill that were justified upon presentation. Bappenas refused to accept and register a
payment request until it was satisfied with the full accompanying documentation, and thus often
returned the application, so that officially the penalty (when a payment request is not paid within a
certain period) did not apply. Timely payment was an item reviewed in every supervision mission.
Late payments force service providers to prefinance, adding to costs. It is hoped that the general
procurement improvements being introduced in Indonesia will address this payment aspect as well;
and
- 18 -



iv) the engineers were hired on an annual basis due to the government procurement preference and
despite the disapproval of the Bank's TTL; therefore, few engineers (not even the project team
leader) having worked even 5 years (2 under VIP and 3 under VIP2) obtained pension
contributions from the consulting firms (contributions are required for multiyear employment only)
or became "firm" employees.
d) Overall the project set a high standard "no-corruption" policy and practice; some corruption incidences
were found and corrective action taken. This suggests other incidences went undetected but does not
warrant downgrading the highly satisfactory rating.
e) The project team monitored work every year, and made impact surveys except for the last year as
results in earlier years were always similar (such as benefits from roads).
Independent monitoring is difficult in Indonesia, if keeping the cost reasonable is also desired. A final
monitoring exercise was conducted by an Indonesian NGO in the last project year (monitoring by a foreign
consulting firm would have cost 10 times more). The Bank supervised closely preparation of the survey,
which included a structured questionnaire and a methodology to select the households and respondents to be
interviewed, to obtain objective answers and the possibility of quantitative aggregation and comparisons.
Surveys were made in a sample of villages selected by Bappenas; questions were also posed to a smaller
subsample, to present "typical" qualitative results and so introduce some stories with faces and specifics.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Highly satisfactory. The Borrower performed well in difficult circumstances and in spreading new project
principles that could have been resented by local level officials who were losing their "top down" authority.
The Government also used the project lessons immediately to the benefit of other projects and programs.
This transition was an unwritten objective from the beginning: either the concept was successful and the
Government would adopt the principles for part of its own decentralized budget, or it was not worth
pursuing. Fortunately, the outcome was positive, though a no less demanding task is now with the
Government.
8. Lessons Learned
The ICR of the VIP is dated March 25, 1999, about 1.5 years ago; most lessons reported remain valid and
there is no need to repeat those lessons here. This project aimed at institutionalization of the VIP
procedures, and there are some additional lessons worth noting.
1. Evolution to a Longer-Term Program. Programmatic and flexible approaches and a "franchise"
approach replicating small-scale (village level) assistance many times, are helpful in gradually adapting a
project concept to a longer-term and larger domestic program. It was necessary to start with something
simple to show that new ways can work. Having shown their feasibility, some features needed to evolve for
a longer term program:
a) Village targeting makes sense when the intended coverage is the poorest villages; a small proportion of
the whole; but village targeting no longer makes sense for a sustained program assisting a large
proportion of the villages. In this situation, self targeting is preferable, so that assistance offered gets
directed where demand is demonstrated, normally benefiting poorer segments within villages. This
adjustment is important because even the richer villages have poor segments.
- 19 -



b) Restricting local officials to an administrative role makes sense when new ways are introduced and
demonstrated; however, once they endorse the new ways, their involvement can and should deepen.
c) Intense supervision and a good MIS are required, as they are cost-effective and can provide training
toward project expansion or decentralization. Supervision should focus on problems, as that is the
better way to improve project performance on the ground even if reports won't look as good, honest
reporting of problems should be seen in context and not penalized.
d) It could be useful for the Bank to supervise the Government-funded follow-on program for a year or so.
2. Maintenance and Design Standards. Maintenance remains a weak point. A mere programatic approach
would be helful, as altemative designs standards that require less maintenance and less than very good road
condition as an output may be found to be optimal for reducing lifetime infrastructure costs. For low
traffic rural roads, the standard engineering approach that they be left without an asphalt surface should
perhaps be revisited. In tropical countries heavy rains wash away the finer aggregates that constitute the
top layer on new stone roads in a rainy season or two. Thereafter roads are rough. An initial asphalt
surfacing keeps the aggregate in place, and reduces rutting by loaded trucks. The trade-off may be the cost
of asphalt vs. that of relaying the aggregate. Taking a longer-term view, new rural access roads are the first
stage of several upgradings until the road becomes part of the tertiary network. Staging may be
unavoidable in wet areas; new roads will settle and will require additional subbase material in some years
even on top of an asphalt surface. Repairing a broken asphalt surfacing may be beyond the village
maintenance capability while maintenance of shoulders and drainage cleaning are relatively easy; so
perhaps the required road maintenance could be redefined to that achievable. "Non-achievable"
maintenance should be accepted as required upgrading, when justified. In the meantime less than good road
surfaces may be optimal. Maintenance of latrines and septic tanks poses different problems. It will
improve only gradually as people become more aware of the importance of sanitation; hygiene instruction
in primary schools that parents could also attend would be useful. However, it is too costly to mount
ad-hoc sanitation campaigns under a general infrastructure project.
3. Role of Women. Women can be involved in development, even in cultures said to be "closed" to
participation of women. In predominantly Muslim areas, women participated in the project when the
program was well advertised and they knew they were eligible. Local leaders set the tone for the
involvement of women. Still, there is no need to impose Westem values in Asia. Where culture so dictates,
women can, for instance, help with the provision of food and other activities rather than participate in the
placing of rocks on the roads, such work is often considered undignified for women.
4. Involvement of Beneficiaries. More generally, people rise to opportunities offered if these make sense
and have involved beneficiaries in the program design. Some developers report that villagers are apathetic
and that farmers are ignorant, more proactive approaches review what their program is offering the
"recipients", and give them voice. In extreme cases, apathy may be due to malnutrition, which should of
course be addressed first. The notion that central controls can be useful for local development is unrealistic
in practice. Requiring a lot of information does not necessarily improve the quality of what is reported on,
and may even lessen the interest of the implementers. Unless there are also incentives for people to perform
well, they will comply superficially or only report compliance with central dictates. A procurement system
overhaul may be needed for better govemance and lower public costs. Transparency can be introduced into
non-transparent systems, and transparency is more useful than central controls.
5. Monitoring. A realistic view of what independent monitoring can achieve, how it can achieve it, and at
what cost, is necessary. Monitoring has various purposes, and they require different approaches:
- 20 -



a) The Bank and the central government want data to reflect the overall results, to compare across
elements (e.g., by province, by topography, by type of infrastructure, and by type of main economic
activity of the village), to justify continued financing of the program, etc. Monitoring from the top is
more useful and costs less when done continually by the project management along with supervision
and implementation management; in practice, the line between supervision and monitoring is blurred;
continuous monitoring enables timely actions. The results from a large "one off' independent
monitoring exercise are normally available too late for use in adapting program features. Thus such
monitoring may be better suited for a final impact analysis to guide decisions on future programs, and
to inform the central agencies. Also, centrally mandated independent monitoring hardly informs locally.
Mostly it turns into a local agency receiving a copy of a report, which tells the beneficiaries what they
already know what impact the project had on them and their village. Independent monitors rarely find
more than the dedicated project staff know, and whatever they find is at great cost (field travel is one of
the largest costs). If there is no trust in the project management to report honestly, probably there is
more of a need to change the project management (or for the TTL to improve relations with them, to
establish trust and honest reporting) than to undertake independent monitoring.
b) Areas assisted may benefit more by local agencies monitoring and even the local communities self
monitoring during implementation, so that the local decision makers become better informed and
undertake discussions locally as to what to do next with decentralized budgets. The process is as useful
as the findings; after a discussion people are more convinced of the why of something, and more
interested in participating in implementation.
c) The uses and benefits of many types of infrastructure, are ill suited for reflection into a simple set of
indicators. Aggregation across villages and districts further lessens the information content of
indicators, and the cost of such monitoring is high. The standard economic return estimate remains one
of the best indicators as it can handle complexities even if it does not address non-economic objectives
social projects may have.
6. Team Size and Composition. Small Bank teams can be effective, efficient, good for in-house training
and to promote client involvement. Nationals or officials of the country assisted and who are members of
the team also "learn by doing" a good means of development. With the use of e-mail, staff at headquarters
can be involved on a daily basis with developments on the ground.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Introduction
The Second Village Infrastructure Project was planned in 1996 to be an extension, an
expansion, and an improvement over the first Village Infrastructure Project, which was implemented in
fiscal years 1995/1996 and 1996/1997 in 1230 villages on Java. The intention was to help pull as
many villages as possible out of backwardness (as identified through the criteria of the government's
Inpres Desa Tertinggal program) in as short a time as possible. The 1230 villages, nearly all of which
were backward villages, coupled with the villages assisted off Java through a similarly intentioned
project funded by the OECF, still was far short of the more than twenty thousand villages designated by
the IDT. To reach the remaining villages, both the VIP and the OECF versions needed to be extended,
- 21 -



with the World Bank-funded version expanding onto the island of Sumatra from its original base on
Java.
It was clear from the VIP-I experience on Java that the project could be extended there with no
difficulties. The first year of the project had been surprisingly successful - a surprise because so
many changes were made in how projects were undertaken and managed, with potentially damaging
consequences if some of the changes meet unnovable obstacles. The project delivered cheaper
infrastructure in a very popular way, allowing villages to manage their own activities and select their
own targets. Local governments on the whole were supportive, as the project was a viable solution to
solving the problem of uneven development and poverty alleviation. It also proved to be possible to
staff the project with a large number of dedicated engineering consultants, which also was a question
mark at the very beginning. A large part of the success was due to the unusually close cooperation
among the various ministries and agencies of the government as well as the lending agency.
To support a possible move into Sumatra, a special study was conducted by a consulting firm
to ascertain whether the region could be helped with a VIP-like project, and what changes might be
needed to address the different conditions on Sumatra. The mostly positive results of this study were
followed up by a series of visits by the project Secretariat, senior VIP consultants, and staff from the
World Bank to the provinces on Sumatra to discuss the need for a VIP on Sumatra and to see what
changes should be recommended. These teams also reported that the expansion was desirable and
feasible, with some changes in VIP practices and rules.
Sumatra was different from Java in several important characteristics. The physical condition
of Sumatra is quite different from Java, as the distances between villages on the average are longer.
There are many small islands and major rivers in the provinces of Sumatra, so water transportation is
often the chief means of transport. Large areas of Sumatra are swampy and required different technical
solutions, whereas Java has very few swamps. Regarding the people of Sumatra, aside from the relative
low density of settlement, the tradition of community-based self-help was not as strong among the
people of Sumatra as it was on Java. Village organizations on the whole were weaker. The ability and
intentions of local government were an unknown, of course, as was the ability of locally recruited
engineers, but it was hoped that these would be similar to Java.
During the implementation of the Second Village Infrastructure Project, Indonesia experienced
enormous changes external to the project, which had serious consequences for the project. The
President of Indonesia was forced from office after 32 years in power, changing people's perceptions
about the government and their willingness to vocalize their dissatisfactions. The currency collapsed,
changing the economics of the project in ways that were not considered during the project design, as for
many years the currency had been extremely stable and the economy was one of the fastest growing in
the world. Prior to collapsing, nearly all the experts had been predicting a continuation of the boom
years.
After VIP-II was negotiated and planned, the government felt it necessary to accelerate
infrastructure construction in left behind villages to try to reach all of them within a target of seven
years. A parallel project to the World Bank-funded VIP-II and the OECF infrastructure project was
designed, following the VIP methods on Java and Sumatra and the OECF contractor-based methods
elsewhere. This was funded entirely by the State development budget during the 1997/1998 fiscal year,
with the intention of continuing all three projects for several years until all the IDT villages were
served.
- 22 -



Project Design
The project was an extension of the first Village Infrastructure Project, following the same
basic principles of simplicity, practicality, transparency, participation, and quality, using innovative
methods in channeling funds directly to the village, in delivering technical assistance, in managing
activities at the local level, and in support from local government.
The move into Sumatra necessitated some changes, as 1100 of the planned 2600 villages to be
assisted in the fiscal years of 1997/1998 and 1998/1999 would be in the eight provinces of Sumatra
(500 and then 600):
* For various reasons, in some parts of Sumatra the typical village is much smaller than the
minimum population established for the VIP on Java (where nearly all villages are much larger
than the 700 persons considered sufficient to build 120 million rupiah of infrastructure). From
the beginning, two or three villages in the province of Aceh were allowed to jointly undertake VIP
activities if their combined population was at least the minimum. In the second year this
exception was extended to Bengkulu as well, although there were only four additional villages
selected in Bengkulu (as opposed to more than 200 in Aceh).
* Recognizing the different terrain encountered, the project technical guidelines were supplemented
with information and standards useful in swampy areas, especially for roads and bridges.
* Because the VIP required clustering of villages to make efficient use of the consultants in the
field, and the situation in Sumatra (and eventually on Java) was not always conducive to
clustering of left behind village, the rules were amended so that clusters could contain one village
not part of the IDT program in order to complete the cluster. When necessary, the number of
villages in a cluster could also be less than the standard five villages.
Other changes were incorporated into the newly designed VIP-Il, continuing the practice of
leaming from experience and fine-tuning the project based on field needs. Among the more important
changes were the following:
* The guidelines were amended to make them compatible with new environmental regulations
issued by the government.
* Administration at the village level was standardized and made more explicit. A standard
bookkeeping format was introduced, and there were changes in the forms used to pay workers to
make payments more transparent and easier to calculate.
* Project technical guidelines were separated from the administrative manual and in some cases
were produced by the national agencies instead of the consultants.
* Subcontracting was made more formal, following a format suggested by the World Bank. Their
use was limited to larger subcontracts, nearly all of which were written for the supply of
materials from extemal sources. Works continued to be undertaken by the villagers without the
use of contractors.
* There was additional emphasis on transparency in the project guidelines and in the training of
consultants.
* The responsible party in the village was changed from the village chief to the head of the village
development council (the LKMD), to bring the project closer to the people and to limit the
domination of village activities by the chief.
When the economic crisis occurred, it completely changed the conditions under which VIP-IL
- 23 -



was operating. Not only had the currency devalued (at one point it was only worth less than 20% of its
pre-crisis value), but the economic situation had changed in the provinces. Commodity exports became
far more lucrative to the farmers and farm workers (earning precious dollars), while factory and office
workers were being laid off and returning to villages. These caused the following major changes (some
of which required amendments to the VIP-II loan agreement):
* As the loan was denominated in US dollars with expenses in the village in rupiah, the
construction of infrastructure in the planned 2600 villages would not even use up half of the
original loan amount. Consequently, the number of villages was increased and there were enough
funds remaining after two years to undertake a third year. The loan still had funds leftover after
assisting 7044 villages in the three years (compared to the targeted 2600).
* The government had planned to continue the self-financed village infrastructure project on Java
and Sumatra in 1998/1999, but no longer had enough funds to undertake this. VIP-II took over
all the planned works on Java and Sumatra, swelling the project from the planned 1300 villages
to 3147 villages. (VIP-II itself had already planned to grow from 1300 to about 2000 because of
the changed exchange rate.)
* The amount of funds per village was raised in 1998/1999 to 140 million rupiah per village from
the 120 million rupiah amount used in the first three years. Inflation in the village was mostly
limited to materials sold at world market prices, such as steel and water pipe. Inflation of locally
produced goods such as cement was much lower, while village-gathered materials and local
wages rose even less.
* The changed situation of the farners in Sumatra made the project less viable there. In many
places the farmers were not interested in working at the planned incentive wage (determined by
the village, but prior to the economic crisis), because they could earn very high wages in
agriculture. Many of the villages were booming. To offer a competing wage in such conditions
would have made the VIP extremely expensive and diverted labor from productive activities. As
a consequence, in the third year the project reverted to Java, plus the addition of Bali which had
been added as a result of taking over the government program in 1998/1999.
Other changes in the project design occurred for the second and third years of VIP-II, and these
are shown in the table below:
- 24 -



1998/1999                                                   1999/2000
Funding level set at 140 million per village, with which   Funding variable, a 150 million maximum. Village
selection was made without necessarily following
increasingly out-of-date IDT status.
the village could continue to build several pieces of      Each village was allowed only one subproject. Village
infrastructure                                             irrigation, markets, and other types of infrastructure widely
undertaken.
Senior consultants were assisted by 40 mid-level engineers,  Senior engineers assigned to districts, and the mid-level
who were given formal training and assigned in parallel to  engineer position was eliminated.
multiple districts.
Numerous information sheets supplemented the information   Innovations of open procurement, village cluster meetings,
board required in each village for transparency reasons.    pre-audits  by  other  villages  and  engineers,  and
independent teams.
Formalization of field engineer meetings, and provision of  Field engineers given facilitation training.
Forums to promote creativity and learning from experience.
Formal accounting of village contributions, but contributions  Disbursements made directly from the special account
continued to be optional (as needed)                       without government pre-financing of the first payment.
Computerized system for accounting for disbursements in     Village grants disbursed in three tranches (50%, 40%,
Finance, prior to submitting to the special account.        10%) instead of fixed amounts of 20 million each.
In addition to these changes, two other activities were added to the project in the 1999/2000
fiscal year. First, twenty-six experienced engineers were hired to go back to all the villages assisted
during VIP-I and the first year of VIP-II in order to assist villages with maintenance as well as to
gather information about the status and benefits from  the earlier activities.  Second, the project
identified some 130 villages from the first three years where the quality of designs or supervision had
led to less-than-acceptable quality or benefits. These were given a limited amount of funds with which
to purchase materials or rent equipment to fix the problems, provided the village was willing to provide
free labor. The project also provided about thirty junior engineers to design and supervise the work.
Project Implementation
The project was implemented in 7044 villages, but calculated on the basis of the 6826 grant
agreements (remembering that in Aceh and Bengkulu there were combinations of villages). During the
first year, each village received 120 million rupiah (always 90% from the loan and 10% from the
govemrnent), raised to 140 million in the second year. In the third year, each village could receive a
maximum of 150 million rupiah but could undertake only one subproject. The villages received grants
in Year 3 averaging 115 million rupiah. In addition, the project supplied technical assistance at the
village, district, provincial, and national levels paid out of the loan. Repairs and the return to old
villages was paid out of the loan. Government counterpart and support activities were funded from the
national and local government budgets. Village administration was paid out of the grant, a maximum
of 5% of the infrastructure budget.
The main characteristics of VIP-II can be seen in the description of work methods,
implementation procedures, administration, and maintenance below:
Second Village Infrastructure Project Work Methods
Infrastructure was built labor intensively by villagers, assisted by a junior field engineer
- 25 -



*  All residents were eligible to participate as laborer, both men and women
*  Incentive wages were paid (slightly less than the minimum wage)
*  Heavy equipment was allowed if it was needed and the village wanted it
*  Villages and field engineer were supervised by senior engineer
* Local government played a limited role as facilitator and advice giver
VIP-II Implementation Procedures
*  Village selected an implementation team, headed ex-officio by the head of development council
(not the village chief)
*  The team comprised a head of implementation, some foremen, a treasurer, a secretary, and a
technical cadre from the community, all of whom were given a small monthly honorarium from
the grant
*  The procurement of materials and equipment was done by the village itself
*  No contractors or subcontractors were used, except when needed for special jobs
*  Important decisions were made by village consensus
* Training was conducted by the field engineer and local government
VIP-II Administration
*  Administration was done only by the village, with the help of the engineer
*  Special bookkeeping methods were developed for VIP-I
* Government funds withdrawn through a Project Manager and local Treasury in 3 stages, with
simple requirements and transferred into a local bank
*  Proof of expenses remained in the village
*  Workers paid directly and individually, by a daily wage or a target system
* Reporting followed two tracks: village (government) and consultant
*  Administration training was performed by the field engineer
*  Audits were conducted by national agency or local agencies, in the village
*  Procurement of materials and equipment above a certain amount required formal bids and
subcontracts, otherwise by comparative shopping
Maintenance of VIP-II Infrastructure
*  Maintenance was the responsibility of the villages, and they received no funds from the
government for maintenance.
*  Villagers were given some training in maintenance (including identification of problems, work
methods, organization) by the field engineer.
*  Roads and bridges were maintained by the village or by the affected hamlets
* Roads were often subsequently asphalted by local govermnent or by self-help; VIP allowed
immediate asphalt only in technically appropriate places.
*  Water supply, sanitation, and jetties were maintained by users' groups
Project Results and Impact
During the three years of the project, virtually 100% of the planned works were completed,
nearly all of them on schedule by the end of their respective fiscal year. (Repair activities were also
carried out on time except in two districts in West Sumatra where the funds could not be withdrawn
quickly enough). Where works were incomplete, the consultants and local govemment cooperated with
the communities to finish the works. An extremely small number were not completed, and nearly all of
those were in Sumatra where community enthusiasm and government support were relatively low.
- 26 -



The project built five types of infrastructure during the years of VIP-I and the first two years of
VIP-II: roads, bridges, water supply, latrines, and jetties. During the last year the project expanded to
include many other types of infrastructure, especially markets and irrigation. The table below shows
what was built during VIP-TI alone, according to final reports:
Roads            15,069 kilometers
Bridges          42.5 kilometers
Water supply     8,722 units plus 527 kilometers of distribution pipe
Latrines         3,911 units
Jetties          4.9 kilometers
Markets          58 villages
Irrigation       140 villages
Others           48 villages
Monitoring data were collected by the field engineers each year, conceming various aspects
that influenced the implementation and results from the project. Based on the these data from the last
fiscal year (1999/2000), some general conclusions can be drawn:
*  Participation by the LKMD or village implementation team remained high, with several
activities effectively performed entirely by village teams. The field engineers continued to
dominate the more technical tasks, often working without direct involvement of the village in
such tasks as technical drawing and budget calculations (except to get their approval).
*  There was a reduction in the price of transporting commodities from the far end of newly
improved village roads, averaging about 40%.  This was in part due to changes in
transportation methods and marketing methods, and perhaps somewhat due to lower
operational costs of transport (although in the inflationary climate such a reduction would have
been offset by increases in other operational expenses).
*  Local contributions were significant, higher than those reported in the previous year. Using
nominal prices for land, the contributions of land represented about half of the 7% average
contribution. Labor donated represented about half of the non-land contributions. Material
contributions were about 10% of the 7%.
*  There were a huge number of beneficiaries of project infrastructure: nearly six million persons.
This was more than ten times the number of people who worked on the project (563,000)
during implementation. Seventy percent of beneficiaries were located in the 2,596 project
villages.
*  Implementation teams continued to demonstrate significantly improved skills based on their
association with the project. They improved most in technical and managerial skills such as
bookkeeping, reporting, logistics, and quality control. The role of women did not improve very
much, remaining at a relatively low level.
*  Data collected about pre-existing conditions of VIP subprojects showed that the subprojects
produced significant changes in village life, by upgrading roads to all-weather four-wheeled
vehicle access, replacing nonpermanent bridges, ensuring a better supply of water (not
necessarily a supply of better water, however), and better managed sanitation.
Aside from the data collected by the field engineers, data were collected by the twenty-six
engineers who visited 2396 villages (of 2417) assisted from 1995/1996 to 1997/1998. Their data
- 27 -



supported the following conclusions:
*  The quality of roads, bridges, and water supply was acceptable, but the quality of sanitation
subprojects was not acceptable.
*  The level of maintenance effort expended was considered adequate for roads, bridges, and
water supply, but inadequate for sanitation subprojects.
*  The level of benefits was acceptable for roads, bridges, and water supply, but was very low for
sanitation subprojects.
*  Quality, effort, and benefits seemed to be interrelated, based on an examination of the cross
tabulations.
*  All the above in general were superior on Java compared to Sumatra.
*  The majority of villages on Java were active in maintaining their subprojects, and a majority
had a maintenance organization. In contrast, very few Sumatra villages had a maintenance
organization, even though some 30% of the infrastructure was being maintained.
*  Economic benefits were significant according to reports, with the median of annual benefits
from increased activities at more than 50 million rupiah and the median of annual benefits from
reduced costs at more than 10 million rupiah. More than 86% of the villages reported more
than 10 million rupiah per year in combined economic benefits.
*  Most villagers interviewed held strongly positive opinions about nearly all aspects of the VIP,
perhaps true, perhaps biased because they were being interviewed by a representative of the
project and hoped to get it again. There were, however, enough negative responses and
differences between subgroups to indicate that there was some truth behind the responses.
Follow-up Activities
The most apparent follow-up to the Second Village Infrastructure Project is the continuation of
the VIP with funding by the Government of Indonesia itself. In fiscal year 2000 (the fiscal year
changed from April/March to January/December, leaving a nine-month transitional fiscal year in 2000),
the government has undertaken VIP activities on Java and Bali in some 2300 villages, with very few
modifications from the mechanisms used in prior years. This activity was in response to the perceived
need to continue to address village poverty in left behind villages and the positive attraction of the VIP
brand name on Java.
During the Second Village Infrastructure Project, the Government and the World Bank
introduced the Kecamatan Development Project, a direct descendant of VIP-I and VIP-H, using a still
more participatory approach to building village infrastructure as well as to provide funding for village
level microeconomic activities. The lion's share of procedures and forms used in the KDP were
adapted from those used on VIP-II, particularly those connected with infrastructure and village
administration. KDP is a national program, not restricted to Java and Sumatra, and it is still ongoing.
The World Bank-funded Water Supply and Sanitation Project for Low Income Communities
was redesigned to incorporate the project management aspects of VIP-II.
During the economic crisis, many additional programs were introduced by the government to
alleviate the problems of unemployment and unequal development. A large number of these borrowed
their implementation rules and manuals from VIP-II, although they were not always implemented with
the same spirit. This can be taken as a sign that the VIP has produced permanent changes in the way
that the national government and local governments undertake village development. The assumptions
-28 -



have been changed for the better.
At the current time, the government is investigating the feasibility of an improved version of the
VIP that will incorporate lessons learned from the KDP as well as some recent versions of other village
development programs. The backbone of the new approach will continue to be mechanisms developed
by VIP-Il over the years, including a few new wrinkles developed during FY 2000 to improve aspects
of good governance and the management of consultant tasks. The VIP in FY 2000 has begun to
involve the local legislatures in monitoring the implementation of the program in their areas, including
conflict resolution. The senior consultant tasks have been reorganized to improve the coaching of
junior consultants and to improve supervision of village works. Junior consultants (field engineers)
have been assigned to work in small teams of three or four instead of as individuals. Initial reports
have been encouraging.
Evaluation of the Performance of the Borrower
The Second Village Infrastructure Project accomplished much, especially given the much more
difficult and changing conditions it faced compared to the smaller scale first VIP. It responded well to
the economic crisis and the crisis in confidence about the government, wherein at every turn the words "
Reformation" were heard amid cries for "Autonomy" now that the government was now being
decentralized. The VIPs were agents of reformation long before reformation became trendy. It also has
been an agent in helping to define the meaning of autonomy as something other than freedom from all
rules from above. During reformation and the demand for complete freedom from national rules,
VIP-Il clung to the strict interpretation of its internal mechanisms, even in FY 2000 when the World
Bank could not be the used as an excuse for having to follow certain rules.
VIP-Il has developed a large team of dedicated engineering consultants, reaching 700 at its
peak in 1998/1999 and still numbering more than 550 in FY 2000. The engineers themselves created
an association to promote community empowerment through enlightened technical assistance. The
project was also able to continue to enforce a strict Code of Ethics on the consultants, and more and
more has. been able to promote the similar discipline on local government.
VIP-II institutionalized learning from experience, through dedicated forums and mechanisms
for exchanging experience among consultants.
At the most basic level, it can be said that this project demonstrated a better, cheaper, and more
popular way to provide basic infrastructure in the villages. VIP-Il has established certain mechanisms
for undertaking development works in the rural villages that have become de facto standards. These
include the delivery of funds to the village with a minimum of leakage and bureaucracy, the accounting
for expenses and receipts in the village through standardized bookkeeping and payment procedures, the
selection of suppliers, the receipt of materials from suppliers or villagers, the control of quality in the
field, and the promotion of transparency in implementation. While these were not always implemented
perfectly, the mechanisms were felt to be correct and practical. Simplicity does not imply an absence
of paperwork.
The project has often been studied by visitors from other countries and other World Bank
programs, and nearly all of them reported being impressed by what they saw in the field. In some
instances this has been followed up by designing and implementing similar projects in their home lands.
Visitors have come from Guinea, Bangladesh, Vietnam, Nepal, Sudan, China, Mongolia, and
Cambodia, as well as the participants of several international seminars held in Indonesia.
Several interesting innovations can be highlighted.  Cluster meetings became a routine
occurrence, wherein all the villagers assisted by a field engineer got together monthly in one village
(rotated) to share reports on progress and problems, as well as to inspect the host village's works and
- 29 -



administration in detail. The activity was nearly 100% village-run, with the engineer and local
government staff as observers only. Similarly, the villages were encouraged to undertake open
procurement, wherein candidate material suppliers came to the village to bid against each other (sealed
secret bids), with the opening of bids and selection done in front of a mass audience. Villages were
encouraged to create independent volunteer teams to shadow the implementation teams wherever there
was suspicion of the implementation team for whatever reason. A fourth innovation was the obligation
to conduct pre-audits of a sample of villages by field engineers and members of implementation teams
from other villages, in order to get good feedback as well as to prepare villages for formal audits by
government agencies.
At the same time, there were some failures and disappointments in the ability to make certain
changes. The most important of these are described below:
*  The project never produced simple written guidelines targeted for the villages. The project
guidelines and manuals, even those intended for the village, were written as if for the field
engineers and local government.
*  The project did not do much to enhance the role of women except to monitor the involvement of
women in construction and to insist on equal pay.
*  While attention was paid to maintenance, the project could not solve the problem  of
maintenance financing that has plagued every village infrastructure project.
*  The project could not achieve full participation of the communities in decision making,
including the selection of the implementation team and the particular infrastructure, as
consultants were not involved during these steps and these particular steps required serious
facilitation to overcome years of top-down hierarchical thinking.
*  The project (and VIP-I) modified village selection procedures every year, as there was always
some imperfection that required changes. The method used in FY 2000 was the most
competitive, but even that has already been subject to complaints that subdistricts intervened to
undermine pure competition. A better way still needs to be found.
*  VIP-II was partly designed to encourage community empowerment, with formal goals of
increasing the ability of villagers to undertake development works and to improve the capacity
of village institutions to manage these activities. Given that the project almost always was a
one-shot occurrence (even in FY 2000 when villages could receive the project a second time,
most districts gave priority to those villages that never received it), a permanent change in
capacity might have been a little to much to hope for. Ideally, a follow-up program could have
reinforced and practiced these skills a second or third or tenth time to ensure that they were
truly leamed.
*  The project has never been completely successful in transmitting its message to the various
agencies undertaking audits. The national audit agency (BPKP) made a concerted effort to
adapt, but even it was not able to get the message to the regional teams that performed the
audits in the field. Too often the villages or the consultants were criticized even though they
followed the project's procedures exactly. Similarly, local auditing agencies very often found
fault with the rules and demanded that villages followed local custom (forcing national agencies
to come to the rescue).
*  There were occasional instances of late funding of the project (actually the accompanying
authorization documents - the actual funds were always available) or delays caused by the
late mobilization of consultants.
- 30 -



* The project was not aggressive enough in producing positive publicity for itself. In the
reforming climate, sensational stories of corruption and malfeasance were popular in the press,
whether or not there was any basis in fact. Each case was investigated, but the approach
should have been more proactive instead of only reactive.
* The project did not get useful results from the outside studies and evaluations, continuing the
pattern of the first VIP.
Evaluation of the Performance of the World Bank
The World Bank has been very flexible in allowing the Government of Indonesia to modify the
Second Village Infrastructure Project when conditions required new strategies. The changes made
included the addition of more villages (270% of target), to change selection criteria, to change locations
(Riau and Jambi provinces on Sumatra dropped in 1998/1999; Bali and Yogyakarta added), and to
extend the loan into a third year. Repairs to old villages and the study of the first three years' villages
was also not originally envisioned. These changes were essential, and for the most part they were made
with a minimum of fuss and bureaucracy.
The supervision visits and consultations with the task manager and senior World Bank officials
had significant impact in improving project design and implementation. The operating assumption
within the project was always to coordinate closely and to respond to the comments and criticisms that
were made. To be fair, nearly always this input to the project was timely and accurate. Although not
perfectly, the project secretariat and national consultants tried to communicate as quickly as possible to
the indicated representatives of the lender about whatever changes were undertaken, often through
electronic mail and in routine consultant reports. This level of communication was crucially important
in attacking problems as they occurred, such as the particular cases of low subproject and supervision
quality in West Sumatra, consultant firm malfeasance in East Java, difficult community response on the
island of Nias, or low quality of water and sanitation projects.
The World Bank as an institution has caused some confusion through its quality audits of
VIP-II. The project was pleased to receive a glowing report from a QAG audit at start-up. But a later
QAG in the middle of the project was highly negative in its comments, misunderstanding a great deal
(actually misreading, since they never visited the field). A later audit (actually to VIP-I) reconfirmed
the positive feedback of the first QAG.
Recommendations for Future Projects
In conclusion, VIP-II was quite successful in achieving its purposes. The government and
lender now know a lot more about implementing infrastructure projects in rural villages. Even so, the
following are suggested for any future project:
* It is recommended that a single model be used for similar assistance to villages, to ensure that
they are not confused by multitudes of rules and procedures and formats.
* A future project will need to be more decentralized than VIP-Il, giving more decision-making
power to the villages and perhaps to local government.
* There is a need for technical assistance on technical matters, management, and empowerment.
Providing consultants only for one aspect will lead to weaker empowerment or lower quality.
* There must be an explicit plan for transferring consultant knowledge and skills to the village,
as opposed to instructing consultants to do the job as best as they can. An exit strategy is
-31 -



required.
*  The menu of permitted activities must be made more and more open, resulting in more choices.
*  There should be an improved way of providing technical assistance to the project so that
qualified persons are retained (the project invests a lot in training consultants because without
the training there would be no qualified persons with the required mix of skills), overheads are
reduced, and late mobilization does not happen.
*  Elements of competition are essential to the democratic allocation of scarce development funds.
Competition, limited to villages in VIP-II, should be expanded to include competition among
districts based on objective criteria and performance.
*  The identification of proposed subprojects should be based on an understanding of long-term
village needs and capabilities, suggesting that training on long-term needs identification and
techniques to encourage inclusiveness needs to be considered.
(b) Cofinanciers:
n/a
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n/a
10. Additional Information
n.a.
- 32 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
lDcator/Matrix                   Projected in last P$R                Actual/Latest Estimate
Transport cost reductions                                                 About 40% average
Economic rates of return                                                  Average above 30%
Morbidity                                                                 Reduced with clean water provision
Output Indicators:
bidicatorlMatrix                   Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Build village infrastructure in,      _                                   Actuals:
year 1: 1,250 villages                                                    year 1: 1,301 villages
year 2: 1,350 villages                                                    year 2: 3,147 villages
year 3: 2,596 villages
total 2,600 villages                                                       total 7,044
Details in Table 1 below
Infrastructure output was not quantified at
appraisal as it was to be demand based                                     See output in Table 2 below
Create employment                                                         See employment actuals in Table 3 below
(amount was not indicated since it could not
be known at appraisal)
Improve incomes                                                           See actuals in Table 4 below
End of project
Table I
Island Province                  Number of Villages Assisted                 Number
FY1997/8    FY1998/9   FY1999/2000               Total  Planned
Java                       750         1719            2498           4967         1500
West Java                180           490             882           1552          360
Central Java             325           655             762           1742          650
Yogyakarta                 --           19              47             66            --
East Java                245           555             807           1607          490
Bali                         --           40              98            138           --
Sumatra*                   500         1221               --  1721/1939 *          1140
Aceh                      50           200                            250          150
North Sum.               120           231                            351          250
West Sum.                120           230                            350          240
Riau                      20             --                            20           40
Jambi                     20             --                            20           40
South Sum.                75           220                           295           190
Bengkulu                  20           120                            140           40
Lampung                   75           220               --           295          190
Total                     1250         2980            2596      6826/7044         2660
* Sumatra numbers by province are numbers of standard village allocations but on Sumatra small villages
could share an allocation; the total number of villages assisted is shown after the slash.
- 33 -



Table 2
Infrastructure built         Unit           Year 1        Year 2         Year 3          Total
(199 7/8)     (1998/9)     (1999/2000)
Access roads            km                     3,548          7,510          4,011         15,069
Bridges                 km  1/                     9           21.2          12.29          42.5
Water systems           units 2/               2,042          5,705            975          8,722
Sanitation systems     units 2/                 970           2,459           482          3,911
Piers                   km                       2.5            1.7            0.7            4.9
Others                                                                   282 + 3/            282
I/ meters of bridges added up (not number of bridges)
2/ communal units; many users for water supply systems and more than 6 family users per sanitation unit
3/ 58 markets, 140 irrigation projects, 84 subprojects of varied types; 527 km of piping for water supply
Table 3
Employment actuals         Unit          Year I         Year 2           Year 3           Total
(1997/8)      (1998/9)       (1999/2000)
Labor-days, million   Unskilled               10.5          21.13             12.59          44.22
Skilled                  0.7           1.58             0.96            3.24
Leaders                  0.4           0.84             0.52            1.76
Total                                      11.6          23.55             14.07          49.22
Village workers       men                  309,350        536,168          280,143       1,125,661
women                 62,384        112,305           72,029         246,718
youth                120,858        237,334          211,573         569,765
total                                   492,592        885,807           563,745       1,942,144
Field engineers                                250            700              400             n.a.
- 34 -



Table 4
Finances, actual                       Year I       Year 2       Year 3            Total
(199 7/8)   (1998/9)     (1 999/2000)
Village allocations    Rp million per   120          140          30 up to           n.a.
village                                       150;av.116
Rp billion total    148          415          300                863
Incentive pay, Java    Rp/6 hours,      3,500        4,000        5,700              n.a.
unskilled
Incentive pay,     Id.                  5,000        6,000         n.a.              n.a.
Sumat.
Direct village     Rp billion,
income             approxim.             40          110          72                 222
Unskilled                               1 1          23          15                  49
Skilled                                 9            21          15                  45
Admin. team
- 35 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal    ActuallLatest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million    US$ million
Goods, Works, Services                               130.00          117.80
TA Implementation Support                             18.00           13.00
TA Monitoring and Evaluation                           2.80            0.20
Increased Administration                               6.50            7.00
Total Baseline Cost                                  157.30          138.00
Physical Contingencies                                2.30
Price Contingencies                                   0.00
Total Project Costs             159.60          138.00
Total Financing Required              159.60          138.00
Total cost shown does not include voluntary village contributions equivalent to 7% of village grants (first line
above).
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB                                      N.B.F.     Total Cost
NC8     ~Other'
1. Works                      0.00          0.00         117.80        0.00         117.80
(0.00)        (0.00)      (106.00)       (0.00)      (106.00)
2. Goods                      0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                   0.00          13.20         0.00          0.00         13.20
(0.00)       (13.20)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (13.20)
Total                      0.00          13.20        117.80         0.00        131.00
(0.00)       (13.20)      (106.00)       (0.00)      (119.20)
- 36 -



Projct  ost by  rocremnt Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivaIen
Prcrmn Meho 
Expenditure Categoy          ICs         Procurement Method'              N.S.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00           0.00          117.00          0.00          117.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (106.00)        (0.00)       (106.00)
2. Goods                         0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                      0.00           13.20          0.00           0.00          13.20
(0.00)        (13.20)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (13.20)
Total                         0.00           13.20         117.00           0.00         130.20
(0.00)        (13.20)        (106.00)        (0.00)       (119.20)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
23 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
__________________ IBank           Govt.      CoF.      Bank       Govt-      CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Goods, Works and         117.00     13.00      0.00     106.00      11.80     0.00     90.6   90.8   0.0
Services
Consultant Services      20.80      0.00       0.00      13.20      0.00      0.00     63.5   0.0    0.0
Increased Government                6.50                            7.00                      107.7
Administration
- 37 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
1.     The project is highly justified based on costs and benefits. Data on benefits was collected in all the
villages, at the end of every program year, and with more detail in 479 villages, a sample of those visited
for review of post construction needs. (Many of which are VIP villages but they provide views of benefits
expected for VIP2 subprojects.) More informaton is available in the Impact and Analysis Study, Project
Management Unit, July 2000.
Subproject types and beneficiaries
2.      Some 75% of subprojects are roads. In the project year 1999/2000, for instance, roads were built
in 75% of the villages, bridges in 25% (some of the same villages with road subprojects), irrigation in 5%,
water supply schemes in 4%, sanitation in 2%, markets in 1.5%. 50% of subprojects reported more than
2000 beneficiaries of the VIP infrastructure. The most common range was from 1000 to 2000
beneficiaries (28% of villages). Villages reported 5.8 million beneficiaries for the project year 1999/2000,
30% of which were from outside the project villages. Road subprojects accounted for 80% of the
beneficiaries, proportionally more than the percentage of road subprojects. The number of beneficiaries
may seem overestimated; they are more than 50% of the village populations, but this would be on account
of roads having widespread usage.
Subprojects types and beneficiaries, 1999/2000 program
Infrastructure     Number of Villages Benefiting                Number of Beneficiaries
Type                 in VIP2           others       in VIP villages     outside     Average in VIP
village
Roads                  1939            1494           3,318,491        1,380,530          1,700
Bridges                664              485            894,457          438,907           1,346
Jetties                 8                8              8,120            7,162            1,000
Water supply           106              29             186,745          19,647            1,760
Sanitation             56               19             49,296            6,068             880
Irrigation             138              85             159,095          43,596            1,152
Markets                40               30             103,525          119,548           2,575
Fish auctions           I                I     _         100              50               100
Dikes                   3                2              5,783            3,268            1,927
Retaining walls         3                2              8,309            2,400            2,770
total              2958 1/           2155           4,166,156        1,676,843
I/ in a total 2596 villages; bridges likely complement a road subproject in a village, and the beneficiaries are thus the
same
- 38 -



Infrastructure benefits
The survey early in the year 2000 ascertained the benefits of the infrastructure, as follows:
VIP infrastructure by year of construction and benefits in early 2000; percent
Area:                                   Java                                           Sumatra
Year            1995/6             1996/7             1997/8       1995-97/8            1997/8
built:
Benefits:  Good    Poor     Good      Poor      Good     Poor      # villages Good    Poor      # villages
Roads       21         7        28        6        26        5       1922       11        17      437
Brides       18       14        24        9        27        7        948       14        17      201
Water        19       19        20       20        23        11       501       4         35       114
an   on     3        56        8        44        4        36       370                 50        115
ett         0         0        0         0         0       100        5        10        30       10
Note: the difference between "good" plus "poor" and 100%, is "fair" benefits
3.      These numbers suggest that on Java projects are viewed as providing "fair" benefits by about 80%,
except for sanitation, due no doubt by the high percentage in poor condition (see below), and for 3 jetties in
1997/8 (100% poor!). On Sumatra, benefits are lower, but still reasonable. These benefit evaluations would
support the view that the number of beneficiaries was overestimated in the previous subsection.
4.      A range of benefits was given for increased usage and cost savings, in a sample of 479 villages (83
in the 1995/6 program, 163 in 1996/7 program and 233 in the 1997/8 program, of which 83 on Sumatra).
Data are not separated by type of subproject.
VIP infrastructure built 1995-1997/8, yearly ben efit range reported early 2000; percent of villages
From                      From                  Total benefits, %
Rp million                   increased usage, %          cost savings, %
0- 10                               22                         46                        13
10 - 25                              8                        20                         10
25 - 50                             14                         16                         13
50- 100                             18                         11                         19
100 - 250                           21                         5                         27
250 - 500                            7                         1                          8
500- 1,000                           9                         0                         10
100%I/                     100%                       100%
1/ columns may not add up due to rounding. 100% = 479 villages
5.      Some 4% of villages reported no benefits, and projects there would not have been justified (they
could still be justified by unquantified benefits). Projects in as much as 15% of the villages would not
achieve cost recovery based on the above benefit estimates and a 10 year economic life of the
infrastructure. On the other hand, some 40% of villages could achieve cost recovery in a single year, with
yearly benefits of Rpl20 million and above. Poor subproject retums may be due that benefits not revealed
in cash were not expressed in rupiah (eg. health improvements).
6.      In addition, other benefits were not quantified but reported as shown below, with benefits usually
increasing by the year, i.e.there are lagged impactlresponses. Of course, not all the benefits may be due to
the project.
- 39 -



VIP infrastructure built 1995-1997/8, non quantified benefits
reported early 2000; percent of villages reporting
Type of benefit                1995/6 program villages      1996/7 program villages      1997/8 program villages
Higher vehicle ownership                 87                           91                          65
Easier visits to health centers          71                           71                          48
Easier entry of mobile health            39                           30                           19
units
Additional business in village           76                           71                          59
Additional capital in village            17                           17                           16
Change in cropping patterns              53                           34                           16
New electric grid in village             47                           35                          27
Improved security                        41                           28                           17
Increase in number of                    34                           17                           10
schoolchildren                           16                           15                           8
Additional school construction           58                           58                          51
Easier trips to school
Bathing no longer in river               12                           17                           11
Defecation no longer in open             28                           26                           15
areas
Improved water quality                   6                            9                            9
Additional housing built                 11                           6                            4
Note: 470 villages sampled
Sustainability and maintenance
7.      The post construction review conducted in early 2000 showed the rates of deterioration in the
infrastructure built in VIP and the first year of VIP2; these rates are likely to prevail for the whole of VIP2.
VIP infrastructure by year of construction and condition in 2000; percent
Area:                                      Java                                               Sumatra
Built            1995/6               1996/7              1997/8        1995-97/8              1997/8
year:                _ _ _ _
Condition Sufficient Deficient Sufficient Deficient Sufficient Deficient # projects Sufficient Deficient # projects
Roads        53         12        62         8         64         7        1922       55         12        437
Bridges      65         12        77         8         82         6        948        71         11        201
Water        56         21        59         13        65         9        501        45         19        114
supply
Sanitation    15        48        38         19        42        18        370        30         19        115
Jetties      100        0         100        0         67        33          5        60         10        10
Note: the difference to 100% is a condition in between sufficient and deficient.
-40 -



8.      A yearly deterioration is apparent, and normal. Road projects stand up well, with only 12%
deficient and 53% still in good condition 5 years after construction. Bridges remain in better condition than
roads, as could be expected, while more water supply schemes deteriorate faster (21% deficient after 5
years). These infrastructure types are likely to last 10 years in reasonable condition. Not so sanitation
projects; in 5 years almost 50% is deficient. On Sumatra, deterioration is faster than on Java (except for
jetties), that corresponds to the greater difficulties during construction; thus the economic life may be
assumed to be some 7-8 years instead of 10. Still, it was estimated ex ante that if the projects had an useful
life of 5 years, they would have been fully economically justified, with a minimum 10% return.
9.      There is a correlation of infrastructure condition and maintenance effort--but maintenance effort
was not correlated with the existence of a formal maintenance structure in the village. Maintenance is
generally less than is desirable.
VIP Infrastructure by year of construction and maintenance effort, in early 2000; percent
Area                                    Java                                           Sumatra
Built year     1995/6              1996/7             1997/8       1995-97/8            1997/8
Effoort:   Sufficient Deficient Sufficient Deficient Sufficient Deficient # villages Sufficient Deficient #Villages
Roads       48        11        48       12        52        10      1922       35       31       437
Bridges     37        18        39       20        46        18       948       23       36       201
Water       38        28        42       18        50        12       501       25       34        114
suppy
Sanitation    11      59        19       37        26       32       370        16       47        115
Jetties     100        0       100        0        33        0         5        40       30        10
Infrastructure cost - Village contributions
10.    In addition to the village grants, villagers made unpaid contribution towards the project
infrastructure, that averaged some 7% of the grants. About 28% was labor, 10% materials, 12% structures
and crops, and 50% land at nominal prices. The average contribution was Rp8 million and the total, Rp2l
billion--even though no contribution was required by the project.
Roads and bridges
11.    The average numbers result in a cost recovery in one or 2 years, and an economic rate of return of
about 50%. The roads enabled farmers to receive higher prices. The reported average number of
beneficiaries of a road project, was 1,700 in the project village and 900 in neighboring villages. Still, some
roads projects would not be justified (landslides, floods, etc.). The assumptions in calculating a rate of
return are as follows:
Cost: the full village grant (Rpl20 million in the 3 years reported, increased to Rpl50 million to arrive at
price levels in the year 2000) plus 15% overheads and 7% for village contributions not paid under the
project, for the initial cost. Assume 10% of the initial grant for yearly maintenance.
Benefits: Based on the findings from the 479 village sample, and in line with standard transport project
evaluation whereby only half of the generated traffic benefits are considered, some Rp 1 20million is the
average benefit per year due to the road. This is kept constant, assuming that benefits from further
-41 -



increased traffic cancel reductions in unit benefits as the road deteriorates even with maintenance. Based on
road deterioration rates observed, assumed 10 years in benefit stream.
The 1999/2000 villages with road projects had an average commodity transport price reduction of 40%; the
median reduction was 38%. The transport cost reduction was largely due to a change in transportation
means (to 4 wheel vehicles) and full weather accessibility. Prior to VIP most project roads were earth
surfaced, at least 1.5 m wide; some 28% were hard-surfaced roads that needed improvement. Under the
project, 95% of the roads were stone surfaced; only 0.2% were asphalted; 5% were new roads. 60% of the
project roads connect with an asphalt road. Project bridges were concrete (48%) or steel decked (42%),
with the rest divided among masonry arch bridges, overflow bridges, suspension bridges and wooden
bridges. 62% of the bridges replaced a clearly inferior bridge or were the first bridge at the site; 38%
replaced a narrow or damaged bridge. 45% of the bridges connect 2 hamlets; 34% connect 2 villages.
Other subprojects
12.   No rate of return estimate is attempted for other infrastructure:
-Water supply projects. The project mostly enabled families to use a larger volume of water; in 106
villages with water supply projects in the year 2000, the average number of beneficiaries was reported as
1,700. Most projects were distribution projects (piping) from a spring (72%), followed by spring
development and wells (16%). Only some 20% had the water tested at a laboratory. Prior to the project
water supply was from a river, well or spring (78%), purchased (5%), taken more than 3 km away (5%).
--Sanitation. The project provided latrines with septic tanks and leaching fields. Previously people used
fields, orchards and streams (57%), or latrines in poor condition or far away. The water was provided
mainly from a river or spring (53%) or ground water (40%). Interesting to note that despite the poor
maintenance, people still find the sanitation units useful, and they have made a difference to people no
longer needing to do their needs in the open fields, as reported in the "unquantified" benefits.
--Irrigation, markets, dikes, etc. All these project types achieve a fast cost recovery and have a return as
high as road and bridge projects, above 50%.
-42 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions.
IStage of Project Cycle              No. of Pcrsons and Specialty               Performnnce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
February 1996                  3   engineers                                               HS
I   economist
I    I anthropologist
I   financial officer
I   public administration
I   project officer
GOI team:
Tatag Wiranto, Bappenas VIP
Manager, Administration
Richard Gnagey, Bappenas VIP
Consultant Team Leader, Eng.
Yudi, Bappenas consultant, Eng
Steven Burgess, Bappenas Cons.
World Bank team:
Frida Johansen, TTL, Economist
Jacques Tollie, Engineer
Scott Guggenheim,
Anthropolog.
Yogana Prasta, Disbursements
Appraisal/Negotiation
July 1996 (Appraisal)          2   engineers                                               HS
I   economist
I   anthropologist
I   financial officer
I   public administration
I   project officer
GOI, Bappenas core team:
Wiranto, Gnagey, Burgess,
World Bank core team:
Johansen, Guggenheim,
Tollie, Prasta
August 1996                    7   as above, plus                                          HS
(Negotiations)                 I   Karin Nordlander, Bank lawyer
I   H. Haeruman, Bappenas Deputy
Supervision
March 1997                     I  economist, TM                          S                  S
I  anthropologist
2   engineers (Tollie, Lantran,
Bank) 1/
July 1997                      1  economist                              S                  S
I  anthropologist
November 1997                  1  economist, TM                          S                  S
-43 -



February 1998                  1  economist, TM                         S                  S
June-August 1998               3  engineers (Unger, Bank;               S                  S
Gnagey+Nugraha, Bappenas)
I  economist, TM
October 1998                   1  engineer (Unger)                      S                  S
I  anthropologist (Agrawal)
I  economist/TM
January-March, 1999            1  economist/TM                          S                  S
2  engineers (Scouller, Unger)
July 1999                      1  engineer (Unger)                      S                  S
I  economist/TM
October 1999                   1  economist/TTL                         S                  S
December 1999                  1  engineer (Scouller)                   S                  S
January 2000                   1  engineer (Unger)                      S                  S
I  economist/TTL
ICR
January 2000                  1   economist/TTL                         S                  S
Only field visits mentioned, though supervision was ongoing by email continuously. Every field visit (to
villages) Bank staff and GOI staff and consultants, more than 10, worked as a team, and normally split into
3 subteams, to widen the field coverage. There was staff continuity from identification to project
completion; occasionally, consultants came along (Lantran, Agrawal).
A final supervision/ICR mission would have been useful but management considered it of low priority in
view of Bank budget cuts and the non-problem status of the project.
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              USS (,000)
Identification/Preparation                 12                       58,000
Appraisal/Negotiation                       6                       30,000
Supervision                                55                      282,000
ICR                                         3                       10,000
Total                                      76                      380,000
Despite the heavy supervision of the project (except at the end, for budget reasons), the supervision cost
was not higher than for other projects, because the implementation period was shorter, and the Government
team was fully part of the supervision team.
- 44 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                           O H  *SUOM  ON  O NA
E] Sector Policies                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
L Physical                                  *H OSUOM ON ONA
El Financial                                * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
0 Institutional Development                 O H  * SU O M  O N  0 NA
l Environmental                             O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
LI Poverty Reduction                 * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El Gender                            O H * SU O M O N O NA
El Other (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
a Private sector development                0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
L Public sector management                  0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                   OH  OSUOM  ON  O NA
The above "Macro policies" was not an objective at the project outset, but became an objective with the
economic crisis and was realized in terms of expanding poverty reduction efforts and employment, and
providing the basics for other government programs.
"Gender" was an objective of the project in terms of providing to women "equal opportunity" and equal
pay for equal/equivalent output, but not in terms of affirmative action. Women should be free to not want
to work in the type of activities usually undertaken by men.
-45 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
O Lending                                             *HSOS OU OHU
O Supervision                                         OHS OS   OU   OHU
E  Overall                                            *HS OS   O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                              Rating
O Preparation                                         * HS O S   O U   O HU
O  Government implementation performance              0 HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                   * HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
E Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
- 46 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.    Staff Appraisal Report, # 15467-lND, Indonesia, Second Village Infrastructure Project, September
13, 1996.
2.    Implementation Completion Report, # 19099, Indonesia Village Infrastructure Project, March 25,
1999.
3.    Bank supervision reports, 1997-2000
4.    Loan amendment letters, 1999, 2000
5.    Bank disbursement data, 1997-2000
6.    Project Progress Reports, monthly and quarterly, by Mott MacDonald for Bappenas, 1997 to
2000.
7.    Special reports: Post construction reviews; impact reviews
8.    Field engineer reports--initial village plan; monthly progress reports; consolidated progress reports
by province; monthly report of problems and actions taken; by the various consulting firms, 1997
to 2000 (in Bahasa Indonesia; only sample available at the Bank)
9.    Audit reports, BPKP, 1998 to 2000. In Bahasa Indonesia with English translation of summary.
10.   Final Monitoring Report, by Desa Mandiri, August 2000.
11.   Contracts and terms of reference, for engineering services and for monitoring, 1997-1999.
12.   Correspondence in regional files, much of it in email form.
13.   QAG's reviews, at entry and about mid-term.
- 47 -






MAP SECTION






MYANM   )~    `, ,2hCMIVJ IA,r
Anclamon                                                                                                             _N/~-WXt r 4   ARh       ~ 
Andamarl  2r('   ~~~Gulf of    7,     >        -
Seo a         -    ,  Th0donlad      ,                                                     :                   i :OCEAY ,                                                         tAtI
ThIoiAlND  nclS
Sea
eL     A    Y              BRUNEIL,                                                                      PA[AU
iso  *            W}                          - N e |s,o\,             /  '\#5kf~~ >-                       Cetebes
,- t   + '.i            Qmko 29  } t;  tSea
.29,                                  25              .ancloMeofta
)                          (       fuL.,r                                       Gro        Ternd   Mbtan h            k,        4                      j
40.                 aL 28,.                         1-         .  EASTTiMOR                 Argeo   r Sea
v~ -~                      AL(IANTA.N                       22-
26c 24 r-.                                                   J1 '`'raf
dani~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&r
Jaya   sea B.coro.a2                                      9dwiAi,n                                                PAPUA
O   tCO  20tt  301t. XODA*,   .                                               .    M,n                                                  _
40  'e                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U1igxvPcndlarg  6)wud                                 N
~A,.
;                    j N D I Q N- O -C E A N                                                    <> -   y-                            X><I  N   D   0E   S   I  A se
jB_cn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~+T M,or ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ Tn"a                                                  z  
SECOND VLLAGE IFRASTRUCURE PROECSTIO
13   16   '                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~Arafuro  Sea
o     200    400    60IGIootdws
Plne I;ho                                                                   _   MANRASIDEAE                                               -12 AAEGH          2  UAE1TNGR
0   100  2;0  300~O
INDIAN   OCEAN                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gulf of
u--            (       ~~~~corpentoria
AUSTRALIA
INDONESIA
SECOND VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Planned   Actual                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCES (Proect Precncr slao in rod):  21 SUAWS UTARA
Planned   Actual  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~~              ~MAN  OASI D.1 ACEN                                       Ii INAWBA MAT      22 SULAWESI TENGAH
MAIN ROADS                    2SUM~~~~3 RATUTARA 2 Di GAWATENAH  23 SULAWESI TEAAN
rn                  (i3D  NUMBER OF PROJECT VILLAGES, BY PROVINCE                         0   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                 2 SUMAUERABARA   13 D.2 YOGYAKARTA  24 SUIAWESI SfEATAN
4 SUMAThPA MEIAT   14 JAWA T2*AUR  25 KALIMANTAN TIMUR
r)                                                                  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS            IS 2AMBA[IMANTAN SELATAN
PROJECT PROVINCES                                                                                                             MTEGABAA226KAUMNANEGH
NATIONAL CAPITAL                        6EBENGKUJW      16 4I'AEGGRERA27AIWNNTNGt
7 SUMATERA SELATAN  17 NUSA TENGGARA TIMUR 2B KAUMANTAN EARAT
zx  -. *-  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                    Sa              TiMOR            29 RIAU ARCHIPELAGO
9  I--ITRAARTA IOPAPUA             30 BAN1KAREL BT-NG
---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                10 IIANTEN       20 MWA[KJ            ronl..pnnn
tr.0    P,nnr  cro -n 6., Io  R.  Pe6no O/



