Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15467-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
SECOND VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
SEPTEMBER 13, 1996
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of July1996)
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00 = Rp. 2,400
Rp. I million = US$416.67
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Units
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia - April 1 to March 31



INDONESIAN WORDS AND ACRONYMS
APBD Il/K      -    Annual district govemment development budget
APBN           -    Aniual central govemnment development budget
BAPPENAS    -    National Development Planning Agency
BAPPEDA l/Il -    Provincial/District Development Planning Agency
Bangda         -    Directorate General for Regional Development, MoHA
BPKP           -    Central Audit Bureau
BPS            -    Central Bureau of Statistics
BRI            -    Bank Rakyat Indonesia
Bupati         -    Head of Kabupaten
Cabang         -    Branch
C'ARE          -    Catholic Relief. NGO
Camnat         -    Head of Kecamatan
CAS            -    Country Assistance Strategy
DATI 1/11      -    Provincial/District level government
DGBM           -    Directorate Genieral Bina Marga (Roads), MPW
DGCK           -    Directorate General Cipta Karva (Human Settlements). MPW
DGB            -    Directorate General of Budget, MOF
DPUK           -    Kabupateni Department of Public Works
DIP/DIPDA      -    Central/regional project budget
GOI            -    Government of Indonesia
INPRES         -    Presidential Instrmction, including a class of GOI grants
IDT            -    Inpres Desa Tertinggal (Program for villages left behind)
ILO            -    Intemationial Labor Organization
Kabupaten      -    District (Level 11)
Kecamatan      -    Kabupaten administrative subdistrict
Kepala desa    -    Head of village and of LKMD
Kepres         -    Presidential Decree
KIP            -    Kampung Improvement Program
KPKN           -    Provincial office of National Treasury
LIBOR          -    London Interbank Offered Rate
LKMD           -    Village community resilience council
MoHA           -    Ministry of Home Affairs
MoF            -    Ministry of Finance
MPW            -    Ministr- of Public Works
NGO            -    Non-govemmental organization
OECF           -    Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund. Japan
Pimpro         -    Project Manager
PKK            -    Women's groups
PKT            -    Integrated Area Development Scheme
PMD            -    Directorate General of Village Community Development. MoHA
PMU/P3DT       -    Project Management Unit/Pembangunan Prasarana Pendukung Desa Tertinggal
PODES          -    Village survev by BPS
POKMAS         -    Community self help groups
PP             -    Govemment regulation/Peraturan Pemerintah
Repelita       -    Five-year Development Plan
SAKERNAS    -    Labor Survey
RRA            -    Rapid rural appraisal
SPABP          -    Grants from Central to Local Govemment
SOE            -    Statement of expenditure
SUSENAS        -    National socio-economic survey by BPS
VIP            -    Village Infrastructure Pro ject for Java (Ln. 3888-IND)






REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
SECOND VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Republic of Indonesia
Implementing               BAPPENAS, the National Development Planning
Agency:                    Agency
Beneficiaries:             2,600 poor villages on Java and Sumatra (with a
population of about 5 million)
Poverty:                   Program of Targeted Interventions
Loan Amount:               US$140.1 million
Terms:                     Payable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard interest rate for Ll:BOR-based US Dollar single
currency loans
Commitment Fee:            0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver
Onlending Terms:           N/A
Financing Plan:            See Table 3.2
Economic Rate of Return:   About 20%  ERR, on account of the infrastructure
deficiencies the project would help alleviate
MOP:                       P-6860-IND
Map:                      IBRD 28086 (Java); IBRD 28087 (Sumatra)
Project ID:                ID-PE-40521






INDONESIA
SECOND VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Background  ............................................                                            1
A. Poverty Trends                              .1...........................................
B. Past and Ongoing Poverty Related Prograrns ............................................2
C. Rural Infrastructure                            3...........................................3
2. Past Bank Involvement and Lessons Learned ............................................4
3. The Project ............................................7
A. Project Origin and Formulation ...........................................7
B. Project Objectives ...........................................7
C. Project Description ...........................................8
D. Project Costs and Financing  ........................................... 12
4. Project Implementation ........................................... .                                       13
A. Project Coordination and Monitoring ........................................... 13
B. Implementation Schedule ........................................... 13
C. Implementation of Works ........................................... 14
D. Procurement ...........................................                                                 15
E. Disbursements ...........................................                                               17
F. Project Accounts, Reports and Audits ........................................... 18
G. Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Compensation ...............               ............................ 19
H. Environmental Impacts ........................................... 20
1.  Project Indicators, Monitoring and Bank Supervision ..................           ......................... 21
5. Project Justification and Risks ............................................ 22
A. Justification ........................................... 22
B. Risks ........................................... 24
6. Agreements Reached and Recommendation  ........................................... 25
Text Tables
Table 3.1: Project Cost Summary ........................................... 12
Table 3.2: Project Financing ...........................................                                      13
Table 4.1: Procurement Arrangements ........................................... 17
Table 4.2: Disbursements ............................................ 18



Second Village Infrastructure Project      - ii -                        September 13, 1996
StaffAppraisal Report
Annexes
Annex 1
Table 1:   Poor Population by Province, 1993
Table 2:   Number of Poor Villages, Average Population and Area (ha), 1993
Table 3:   Calculation of Number of Villages for Each Province in Java and Sumatra
Annex 2:  Financial Flow Chart
Annex 3:  Project Implementation Plan
Annex 4:  Village Implementation Agreements (same as in VIP)
Annex 5:  Land Acquisition and Compensation Guidelines (same as in VIP)
Annex 6:  Disbursement Profile
Annex 7:  Performance Indicators (from VIP reporting system)
Annex 8:  Supervision Plan
Annex 9:  Economic Justification
Annex 10: Selected Documents Available in the Project File
Maps: IBRD 28086 (Java); IBRD 28087 (Sumatra)
This report is based on the findings of an identification/preparation mission that took place in January-
February 1996 and an appraisal mission in July 1996. The core team comprised Messrs. Scott
Guggenheim, Sr. Anthropologist; Jacques Tollie, Sr. Engineer (World Bank); Richard Gnagey, Sr.
Engineer; Steven Burgess, advisor (consultants to IDT Secretariat); Tatag Wiranto (Project Manager,
Bappenas); and Ms. Frida Johansen (Pr. Economist, Task Manager, World Bank). Support teams
comprising staff of BAPPENAS, MOHA, MOF, and MPW contributed to project preparation.
Mr. Anupam Khanna, Division Chief EA31N, and Ms. Marianne Haug. Director EA3, have endorsed the
project.



INDONESIA
SECOND VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
1. PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. POVERTY TRENDS
1.1    Good overall poverty reduction. Indonesia has been successful in reducing the incidence of
absolute poverty. The percentage of the population living at or below the absolute poverty level was
reduced from some 40% in 1976 to some 15% in 1990. By 1993, the incidence was estimated at about
14%, but in view of the large population, about 189 million, the number of absolute poor remains high:
some 26 million people. These estimates result with an absolute poverty line defined as enabling
personal intakes of 2,100 calories per day and minimum non-food necessities. Poverty incidence is
sensitive to the definition used, as many people still are just above the absolute line and would be
categorized as poor with less stringent standards. (Besides, there are many difficulties in measuring
poverty-identifying and imputing values to non-traded goods, considering price level differentials
across locations; identifying differing needs by location, type of employment, household size, age, public
infrastructure availability. etc., identifying pockets of poverty not apparent to outsiders from statistical
averages for larger areas. and so on.) The average disposable household income is only about a dollar
per day per person, even though the average GNP per capita has steadily grown to about $900 equivalent.
1.2    Poverty, predominantly rural. There is no doubt that poverty is an important rural problem.
Poverty reduction has been most remarkable in rural areas, but still, some 17 million poor remain in rural
areas, many on marginal uplands, water scarce or remote areas, or coastal fishing villages, or areas too
densely populated to enable a living from the resulting small farms, while alternative sources of income
are still scant. Rapid urbanization has absorbed many rural poor. Nevertheless the estimated number of
urban poor has decreased somewhat, to some 9 million in 1993. These numbers reflect a similar urban
and rural absolute poverty incidence; other data, such as on infant mortality, suggest that the rural
poverty incidence may be higher.
1.3    Most poor are on Java and Sumatra. Java, with a population of 112 million of which some
40% are in urban areas (in 1993), has one of the highest population densities in the world, of about 8
persons per hectare. Java has some 60% of Indonesia's population on only some 7% of the country's
land area. In the 1990s all the population growvth took place in the urban areas. In line with its share of
the population, Java has the most poor, some 56% of the total, some 15 million. Of Java's absolute poor,
almost 60% or some 8.2 million live in rural villages. The povertv incidence in rural areas is about 12%,
slightly lower than the national average. Sumatra is the second most populous island, comprising some
40 million persons with 72% of them living in rural areas-28 million. Sumatra has some 20% of the
country's poor, or 5 million. The number of "absolute poor" in rural areas is estimated at about 4
million, at a 13% incidence. Java and Sumatra rural poor-14 million-thus comprise 70% of
Indonesia's rural poor, or 50% of the urban plus rural poor (of the total number of poor, Kalimantan
comprises 8%, Sulawesi 5%, Bali 1%, and the other islands, 1-3%; these shares are lower even though
poverty incidences are higher in some outer island provinces than on Java and Sumatra). Details are in
Annex I Table 1.
1.4    Bank poverty reviews.  The Bank has prepared tvo reviews of the poverty situation in
Indonesia: "Strategy for a Sustained Reduction in Poverty", in 1990, and "Public Expenditures, Prices



Second Village Infrastructure Project         - 2 -                        September 13, 1996
and the Poor", in 1993. The latter report has been an input to the Government's current poverty
programs, on which this proposed project also builds. The Bank is further analyzing the 1993 SUSENAS
and SAKERNAS data for poverty implications, and a consistent message comes out: most poor are
dependent on agriculture.
B. PAST AND ONGOING POVERTY RELATED PROGRAMS
1.5    Past programs. Steady economic growth, of 6% per year over more than a decade by now, has
been a main contributor to poverty reduction in Indonesia. In addition to growth, govemnment goals
continue to include stability and equity. As part of its policy the Government has emphasized regional
development programs, with focus on agriculture and food self-sufficiency; socially oriented programs,
such as universal primary education, family planning, community health and nutrition; public
infrastructure development, including water supply, roads, electricitv; village development programs,
credit programs, and more. The programs aimed at providing basic levels of services for all, and were
funded yearly through the central government budgets; international agencies provided assistance to
somne of the programs. Given the overall low income levels prevailing, the Government did not generally
try to "target" the poor; also, given the overall low technical skills, the Government kept most planning
and implementation in central agencies. Steps are being taken to improve planning and implementation
of supply driven, basic standards, types of public programs that continue to be much needed. Also, as
both incomes and income differentials have increased, programs are increasingly targeted-such as
urban poverty, kampung improvement programs (KIP), and the integrated area development schemes
(PKT').  They are also increasingly developed and implemented with local level agencies and
community participation.
1.6    Large revenue transfers. Central government transfers to local levels will continue to be
importanut for equity objectives, because the central government has most tax bases (oil, gas, import
duties. etc.). Most transfer categories are based on equal amounts per capita, per jurisdiction and per
area size of the jurisdictions. Many of the transfers are eaninarked for specific uses, such as civil service
salaries, but one of Repelita VIs aims is furthering decentralization of functions, increasing participation
in decision making at local levels, and increasing targeting of programs by type and by region.
Decentralization will continue a-s local agencies become more able; the central agencies are
overwhelmed by the workloads imposed bv growing budgets and complexity that often result in delaying
program implementation unnecessarilv. The FY1994/95 budget for regional development was Rp.5,340
billion, comprising Rp.423 billion in transfers to villages (only Rp.6 million per village), transfers to
kabupatens of Rp.2,418 billion (of which Rp.968 billion for roads), transfers to provinces of Rp.1,219
billion, subsidies to primary schools of Rp.498 billion, subsidies to health centers of Rp.393 billion, and
the IDT program with Rp.389 billion. At the samne time, local revenue efforts are promoted as local
needs exceed available budgets.
1.7   IDT Program.  The Government launched its innovative IDT program, the "Inpres Desa
Tertinggal", in April 1994. It is funded domestically with some $200 million equivalent per year for
three years and has been widely publicized. It is targeted to more than 25,000 poor villages (see para.
1.8) that each receives some $10,000 equivalent seed capital, for the poorer villagers. The poor get
access to working capital. at low cost and in a simple and transparent way. Standard government
agencies are bypassed but "facilitators" (community workers) paid by the Government are available to
GOIEs area development scheme (PKT) was undertaken during 1989-93 and covered for one year each a total
of 7,900 villages, mainlv for public infrastnrcture provision with village participation.



Second Village Infrastructure Project        - 3 -                        September 13, 1996
assist villagers in understanding the program, and in defining "projects". Communitv self-help groups
(POKMAS) are central to the IDT process. The villagers agree on who should be the beneficiaries of the
funds, based on low incomes and proposed productive uses of the funds; the beneficiaries have to repay
the "village", as the funds are intended to become a revolving fund for others to use subsequently. The
subdistrict bank unit receives the grant from the Government in a village account and disburses against a
minimum of documentation to the village head and the beneficiaries, and forwards records to the
Govemment. The village heads also have to keep records of beneficiaries and activities pursued,
repayments, etc., records that are consolidated at the provincial level and fonvarded to Jakarta. IDT
results so far appear to be positive. Villagers surveyed say they value the initiative. Funds are being
used carefully-even so, sometimes the "business" fails. Also, some cases of misappropriation of funds
by officials have been reported (some of them via the "P.O. Complaints Box 5000", that is well known to
the Indonesian population). Strong action-dismissal-has been taken against a nLlniber of identified
offenders. Japan's Policy and Humnan Resources Development Fund approved in Januarv 1995 a $2
million equivalent grant to BAPPENAS to monitor/supervise/evaluate the IDT pilot during 1995-1997,
using the systems partially developed under a Bank-financed studv. Thle monitoring is undervay within
MoHA, and should assist in defining future poverty reduction programs.
1.8    The selection of villages for the IDT program is made by the National Development Planning
Agency (BAPPENAS) and the Ministry of Home Affairs (MoHA) based on the PODES socioeconomic
survey by the Central Bureau of Statistics. The 1994 selection considered three basic indicators: village
facilities and potential (10 variables), housing and the environmlent (8 variables) and population
characteristics (9 variables). Of the 65.554 villages in Indonesia, 20.633 had at least 2 of the 3 indicators
below the set poverty threshold and were thus defined as "poor". The large majority (95%) of these poor
villages are "rural". The village selection had some flaws for identifying consumption levels-for
instance, too much weight was given to infrastructure deficiencies that do not always reflect lowest
consumption levels-and thus the selection for the 1995 progranm gave more prominence to expenditure
levels; furthermore, villages with less than 50 families received the IDT allocation onlv once: those with
50 to 100 families receive the grant twice. As a result. almost a third of the villages selected in 1994
changed for the 1995 program. A list of the poor rural villages in Indonesia shows that Java has some
30% or 5400 of them, but that they comprise more than 52% or I5 million of the population in poor rural
villages, as the village size, some 2800 persons, is twvice the national average. Sumatra has some 35% or
6600 of the poor rural villages, but their average size of some 900 persons is less than the national
average, so that their population is some 6 million. Thus. Java and Sumatra have more than 60% of the
poor villages and more than 70% of the population in poor villages. Details are in Annex I Table 2.
C. RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE
1.9    Large scope works. The Government has concentrated investment on infrastructure in projects
of national, provincial and district level importance. Projects at these levels usually have a large number
of beneficiaries and high economic returns. In the case of roads, such projects are necessary to improve
or create basic networks that carry high traffic volume, and thus normally have priority over subdistrict
or village access roads. As a result the road network currently comprises some 260,000 km of which
some 189,000 km are kabupaten (district) roads. However access roads are not well developed, and
given heavy rains and difficult terrain and clayish soils in many locations, many villages are cut off
during the rainy season. Extending the road network to provide all weather 'hough low standard access
to villages is now a priority, but because of the large number of villages it is costly even if improvements
are achieved at lowest possible costs.  The road subsector already comprises sonic 20%  of the
development budget (some Rp.4,530 trillion in FY95), and some reallocations may be warranted



Second Village Infrastructure Project          - 4 -                       September 13, 1996
between networks and types of expenditures as recommended in the Bank Road Sector Study (Report no.
15394-IND).
1.10   Small scope works. Infrastructure needs at the subdistrict and village level have been addressed
with smaller government programs and with self-help. Since Repelita IV, the Government has classified
villages in 3 categories for assistance: the poorest, to which both housing and public infrastructure
assistance are given; villages with potential, such as rural growth centers that need ad-hoc programs, and
villages already developing, for which only housing assistance is provided. The Ministry of Home
Affairs (and until 1993 also the Ministry of Public Works) helps implement the programs. By 1996
about half the villages have been provided some assistance; some 3,000/4,000 villages selected at the
kabupaten level are assisted every year. There have also been special programs such as the integrated
area development scheme (mentioned in para. 1.5). Currently INPRES provides some Rp.50 million per
kabupaten for village infrastructure. Most work is undertaken by the villagers, without pay or paid just
enough to cover some training and food costs, so that more funds are available to purchase inputs. A site
engineer, often a consultant, is assigned for 2-3 months to a village to help witlh implementation, if
needed. The Army's "corps of engineers" equivalent has also been active in improving small village
infrastructures.  Often villagers improve infrastructure by themselves-under the -gotong royong"
system all villagers mobilize one day to accomplish a chosen task, or each villager is assigned
responsibility for completing by a certain date a given sub-task, such as improvement of a small road
section. But villagers usually cannot afford to buy materials such as stone, so despite their efforts,
results are often of low standard and short-lived. Thus, infrastructure service levels remain low. A 1994
study sponsored by OECF estimated that providing for basic infrastructure "needs" (access roads, piers,
drinking water, sanitation) in all the poor Indonesian villages, at Ministry of Public Works unit costs,
would cost Rp.2,757 billion. The GOI has started in FY96 a national "poros desa" program through
INPRES 11, to provide access to clusters of IDT villages using a combination of community and
contractors for implementation.
1.11   Recent/ongoing village infrastructure projects. Mid-1995, 2 village infrastructure projects
were started to assist poor villages; OECF focusing on villages "with potential" off-Java, the Bank
focusing on the poorest villages on Java (and Madura). The OECF-assisted project provides variable
amounts per village, depending on the cost of identified subprojects that may be of subdistrict scale and
may serve various villages (such as a kabupaten road section). It has the local public works department
in charge of implementation through contractors. The Bank assisted Village Infrastructure Project (VIP,
Ln.3888-IND) provides each of 1,200 villages, the bottom 6% of the Javanese villages, with a Rp.120
million grant. Completion of both projects is expected by early 1997. The 1994 OECF study identified
needs totaling Rp.965 billion on Sumatra and Rp.312 billion on Java, and thus the 2 projects cover only a
small share of the villages and the needs. OECF proposes to assist another project also starting in 1997,
off Java and Sumatra. The proposed VIP II Bank-assisted project, is to provide village infrastructures on
Java and Sumatra.
2. PAST BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED
2.1    Overall poverty reduction experience. This paragraph summarizes a number of important
general lessons learned. Details on the VIP are in the next paragraphs. The VIP SAR (Report no. 13776-
IND) provides details on other past project experiences. A general lesson is that for poverty reduction
programs, involvement of the intended beneficiaries in program design and implementation, and their
contribution in kind or cash are essential for more relevant subproject choices and sustainability. Also,
multilayered top-down processes and centralized approval requirements considerably slow processes



Second Village Infrastructure Project        - 5 -                        September 13, 1996
down and add to overhead costs; however, central criteria and guidelines are useful, as is the availability
of technical expertise and advice at the local level to improve understanding of choices and quality of
implementation. The start-up period tends to be longer than planned, and programs need some flexibility
in implementation time-unless the opportunity cost of their time is nil, people generally need time to
choose and commit to a new activity, and need some certainty about the sustainability of the initiative.
Starting small and expanding programs as demand for them increases at each location seems a safe way
to proceed.
2.2    Village Infrastructure Project. The VIP provides assistance to 1,200 villages on Java and
Madura, with a Rp.120 million grant to each village. In 1993 the Government identified villages "left
behind", or poor, largely based on infrastructure deficiencies (having at least 2 of 3 indicators below the
PODES poverty threshold). The VIP assists the bottom fifth of the identified poor villages on Java,
including the 765 villages categorized as "extremely poor". The first year program included 415
villages, 120 in West Java, 145 in Central Java, 30 in Yogyakarta and 120 in East Java. The Project
Management Unit under the Coordination Team for village infrastructure (P3DT) first identified the
kabupatens (districts) in each province with the highest concentration of poorest villages: 23 of the 82
kabupaten on Java include about half of the "extremely poor" villages. Because of the need to limit the
time consultant field engineers spend traveling between villages, villages are selected in clusters of 5,
each cluster including at least 3 extremely poor villages. All selected villages have populations of at
least 700 persons, to justify the infrastructure and the grant level.
2.3    The VIP concept is innovative for the Bank in the extent of its decentralization/grassroot
approach: the villages selected choose the works they want and that comply with simple economic
criteria; technical assistance is provided directly to the villages; financing is provided directly through
subdistrict bank units and delinked from late budget releases. The focus is also on employment:
villagers doing the work are paid cash in proportion to work progress and works are organized seasonally
or as convenient for labor availability. Normally, on the other hand, Bank infrastructure projects in
Indonesia are implemented via govemment agencies because the works are of a larger scale and
complexity, and while so far the Govermment has had some village programs implemented at the
subdistrict and even village level, generally district or higher level agencies are fully in charge and
village laborers are often not paid in cash but expected to contribute "free" labor.
2.4   Implementation started in mid-1995, and despite the new procedures involved, it experienced
minimum delays. The first year program was 90% complete by January 1996 when the mid-term review
was conducted. In 415 villages, a total of 1,334 km of roads, 3.2 km of bridges, 901 communal water
units, 532 communal sanitary units and I jetty will have been built by village labor assisted by field
consultant engineers, at a cost of some $22 million. The 90% completion involved almost 5.5 million
labor-days, of which 4.9 million was by unskilled labor. Some 112,200 persons worked on and off on
the projects, of whom 91% were men, 9% women and 31% youth. By their own reckoning, about 65%
were "poor" (a very relative measure, since in even the poorest of villages those better off (poor by
accepted standards) did not consider themselves "poor" given poorer people in the village). Daily
incentive payments for unskilled laborers varied between Rp.2,000 and 7,000, the latter for 2 shifts per
day. The main concem was quality of works, in particular road works, as villagers emphasized quantity
over quality within the financial possibilities of the grant. If infrastructures are maintained, as per the
village agreements, then the high savings already experienced should be sustainable-some transport
costs were more than halved, as did some water supply costs. CARE and the BPS undertook field
surveys for their monitoring assignments. The CARE draft report shows subproject selection and
incentive payments were acceptable to the majority of villagers and that the project has been greatly



Second Village Infrastructure Project        - 6 -                        September 13, 1996
appreciated. The BPS report has been prepared and is being reviewed. By April 1996 the first year
program was completed.
2.5    During implementation of the first year VIP, the Bank and the IDT Secretariat staff, often
accompanied by other central and local agency staff, have conducted joint supervision missions every 3-
4 months to samples of villages. A total of some 100 villages (about 25%) were visited at various stages
of progress, and in each village the project documentation was reviewed for consistency with the project
rules, with the works on the ground, with payments to laborers, with the records at the BRI unit, with the
Pimpro, and more broadly, with the monthly project report. By the sampling method, normally random
and only 1 village from a cluster (of 5), the supervision missions have met with all field engineers (and
presumably all villages under one field engineer follow similar standards). Also provincial agencies
audited the grant use near the end of the fiscal year, before the audits were due.
2.6    Measures were taken to improve the quality of works in the 1996 program; the fact that works
can start earlier in the year, and take place mostly in the dry season, will also improve their quality.
From a "long list" of IDT villages prepared by BAPPENAS, local agencies selected 810 villages,
covering all kabupatens, for the 1996 program-more villages than envisaged could be included due to
depreciation of the rupiah and to savings in the cost of technical assistance, partly because the works
programs will be complete in 2 rather than the 3 years allowed in the SAR (the monitoring activities will
continue into the third year). Additional field engineer consultants were trained, the Project Manual has
been enhanced, the Ministry of Finance and Bank Rakyat Indonesia inputs are on schedule, the works
were being planned in the villages already in February-March: there is much anticipation regarding the
project. The success of the VIP resulted in the Government wanting to extend the scheme and request
the proposed project. By July 1996, works were underway in most project villages and completion is
expected by end-October 1996.
2.7    Related to the project, the Govemment is to review ways to improve the farm gate prices to
fanners, by reviewing local regulations and taxation, and non-competitive practices, by assessing ways to
make better information available to farmers to enhance their marketing possibilities, etc. However, the
process of change is bound to take more time than the 2 years of project works implementation, as it
involves several sectors and must be sensitive to regional variations.
2.8    Bank poverty strategy. The proposed project, along with its ongoing predecessor, is in the
forefront of implementing the objectives of the Country Assistance Strategy. It is geographically
targeted to reduce poverty, in the poorest villages; it will improve quantity and quality of infrastructure
services, delivered in a less costly and more reliable manner and responsive to local demand, while
ensuring good social and environmental practices. It is eminently of a beneficiary participatory nature.
Furthermore, it will increase the economic base of the beneficiary villages, promoting economic growth.
(Italics denote 1996 CAS objectives).
2.9    Rationale for Bank involvement. The Bank endorses the Government strategy for poverty
reduction in Indonesia (para. 3.1). The Bank also has as one of its main objectives the reduction of
poverty, and given the lessons and experience and generally good results from VIP, it is reasonable that
the Bank contribute to an expanded VIP program even if there are little foreign costs involved.



Second Village Infrastructure Project      - 7 -                      September 13, 1996
3. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT ORIGIN AND FORMULATION
3.1    Poverty reduction objectives. The Govemment has made further poverty reduction one of its
main objectives in the Five Year Plan (Repelita VI) that started in April 1994. It is concemed that the
number of poor remains large and wants to accelerate the process of reducing poverty. It aims at
decreasing poverty incidence to 6%, less than 15 million persons, by the year 2000. The main
instruments foreseen to achieve this objective are an outward oriented, labor-intensive based economic
growth (expected to generate more than 2 million new jobs per year); human resource development
(especially expanded education and health programs); and continuing programs targeted to poor villages
and their linkages to urban markets.
3.2    Client commitment. In 1995 the Govenrnent requested that the Bank assist with the project. It
already has a Project Management Unit, that is in charge of the ongoing VIP. The proposed project
would start at the end of the VIP works, scheduled for December 1996, and the established PMU would
carry on. There is a very high level of commitment to the project at all levels, given that it helps
implement the Govemment's poverty reduction program that is currently a high priority, promoted by
the President himself.
3.3    Project preparation. The experience from the VIP is straightforward for the proposed project
on Java, with many more poor villages in need of local public infrastructure. For Sumatra, joint reviews
and field trips by Government and Bank staff, and by consultants, clarified that the VIP concept was not
only well suited, despite the lower population densities and occasionally more difficult terrain, but was
also in considerable demand already in early 1996. Local govemments and villages preferred the VIP's
village-led approach to OECF's contractor-led implementation.  The proposed project will thus
complement the predecessor OECF project on Sumatra, and continued OECF support to the outer
islands.
3.4   The project was developed jointly by the Govenmment and the Bank. BAPPENAS in particular,
its Bureau of Regional District and Rural Development and the PMU/P3DT Secretariat, coordinated
interaction with other relevant Ministries, in particular the Directorate General of Regional Development
(Bangda) and the Directorate General of Village Community Development (PMD) in the Ministry of
Home Affairs; the Directorate General of Human Settlements (Cipta Karya) and of Roads (Bina Marga)
in the Ministry of Public Works; and the Ministry of Finance.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.5   The proposed project is classified as a targeted poverty reduction intervention. The main
objective is to build small infrastructures in poor rural villages on the two islands where most of
Indonesia's poor are, Java (including Madura) and Sumatra. This also creates cash employment for
villagers-the population in 2600 poor villages totals some 5 million. Secondary objectives are to
increase decentralization and community participation. The instrument is grants and engineering
assistance to 2600 poor villages to plan and build public infrastructure by themselves; i.e. the process
itself matters, as described in the next section. Incomes are low, some only $1 per day per capita: the
broadest objective is to reduce rural poverty. This would be met from the temporary income, and some
work experience, generated by project implementation, and from the more permanent income increases



Second Village Infrastructure Project         - 8 -                        September 13, 1996
expected through benefits from the infrastructure built under the project. Both performance and impact
monitoring indicators are explained in paras. 4.29 and 4.30, and summarized in the following matrix:
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Objective        Indicator     Nr. Villages      Baseline       Mid-term         ICR Year
a. Build village  Output      year 1: 1250    VIAs*          Completion by
infrastructure                                May 31,1997    March 31,98
year 2: 1350    VlAs                -          Completion by
May 31, 1998                   March 31,99
b. Create         Output      year 1: 1250    VlAs           Achievement by         -
employment                                    May 31, 1997    March 31, 98
year 2: 1350    VlAs                -          Achievement by
May 31, 1998                   March 31,99
c. Improve        Impact      all             Cost w/o       Cost w/ project   Costs w/project
incomes                                       project**      (FE forms)      (FE forms)
Impact      5%                             >20%EURR        >20%ERR
(P3DT)         (P3DT)
Impact      5%                                            I RRAs/SUSENAS
*: VIA, Village Implementation Agreements; kms of roads, meters of bridges, units of drinking water supply,
etc; no. of man-days.
**: costs with and without the project for transport, water, etc., depending on the infrastructure the villages choose
to build
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.6    Summary description. In order to reach the above objectives, the proposed project comprises a
2 year effort to assist some 2600 poor rural villages on Java and Sumatra improve their living standards
while building public works-such as access roads, bridges, water supply schemes, sanitation facilities,
drainage, markets, piers or other small economic infrastructures. The project would essentially be a
repeater of the Village Infrastructure Project for Java, that assists 1,200 poor villages on Java. It would
provide a grant (about $50,000 equivalent) to each of 2,600 of the poorest villages on Java and Sumatra
for building local public infrastructures, from January 1997 to December 1998. The villagers would
decide what to build, from a menu of choices, and would build it mostly themselves, the workers being
paid by output. Much of the grant may be used to purchase materials (which are also produced mostly
through labor intensive methods, though mostly outside the project villages). Some equipment would be
leased, as necessary, mainly from kabupaten level DPUK pools. Field engineers (consultants) would
assist the villagers plan and implement the works, while also handling financial aspects, such as
approvals for the local bank to pay project related bills, and statements to the center for controls and
funding the local banks for the project needs-the grant is not given up front, except for a Rp.20 million
advance for materials, but disbursed based on work progress.  Senior engineers and a project
management unit would be in charge of the overall planning, coordination and implementation
management. District level bodies would be involved in the selection of villages from a list of poor



Second Village Infrastructure Project         - 9 -                        September 13, 1996
villages prepared by the Bureau of Statistics following village surveys. The project results would be
monitored on a yearly sampling basis by local consultants/NGOs.
3.7    Decentralization.  Decentralization has been built into the project design.  Because the
"process" is important for the project outcome, it is described below, prior to the description of the
"components".
3.8    Poor village selection process. Both the project team and consultants have undertaken field
surveys during project preparation and appraisal to ensure the suitability of the VIP approach for
Sumatra. The number of project villages would be 1500 on Java and Madura and 1100 on Sumatra,
distributed by province such that in each about 50% of the rural IDT villages will have been assisted
under both VIP projects and the OECF infrastructure project covering Sumatra. With the experience
gained on Java under VIP, 750 villages can be handled as of the first year under VIP II; on Sumatra,
based on the OECF assistance level, some 500 villages the first project year in selected kabupatens, and
600 the second year. A preliminary number of villages by province is in Annex 1 Table 3. The
provincial BAPPEDAs I will propose the number of project villages by kabupaten; the kabupaten
BAPPEDAs II, in consultation with the camats (subdistrict heads), will suggest the villages. Kabupatens
with few village clusters would be assisted one project year only. Village lists were discussed in
September 1996 for the first project year, and will be proposed no later than September 1, 1997 for the
second project year. The P3DT Secretariat reviews the proposed village lists for compliance with
eligibility criteria. In October 1996 PMDs using a checklist and guidelines provided by the P3DT
Secretariat, will verifyi the village clustering possibilities and for the villages selected, will prepare a
baseline database. By December 31, 1996 (and December 31, 1997 for the second project year), the
camats/bupatis will inform the kepala desas (elected village heads) of villages selected and will provide
public information-a circular, radio announcements, etc.-with the rules to be followed under the
program, so that discussions in the villages selected get underway.
3.9    Village selection criteria. To be eligible for the project, villages (a) will be selected from the
PODES list (para. 1.8); (b) will have at least 700 inhabitants, or in areas having only smaller villages, 2
or 3 close-by villages totaling at least 700 persons can be considered as one Project village (specifically
for Aceh); (c) will be located in clusters, expected to comprise 5 villages; (d) will be IDT villages or a
non-IDT village in a cluster of IDT villages. For equity considerations, priority will be accorded to
non-transmigration villages, as these have already benefited from other programs. Villages covered in
some other programs will also be excluded from the project, such as the 134 villages included in the
Kerinci Seblat Integrated Conservation and Development Project (Ln. 4008-IND), and those assisted
under the OECF village infrastructure project on Sumatra. Very isolated villages would not be assisted
given that small infrastructures would not have a significant impact in their accessibility to markets or
facilities. Villages of indigenous peoples, such as some villages on Nias island, would require a more
comprehensive approach than that of the project.
3.10   Grants to villages. The allocations are recorded in the kabupaten budgets but the funds are
channeled to villages through the subdistrict units of Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI). A flow chart is
included in Annex 2. Each village grant under the project should ideally reflect infrastructure needs and
labor availability. However, for simplicity and transparency, the grant is a standard Rp.120 million
(about $50,000 equivalent). This has been found to be less than the needs of the poor villages, but
sufficient to stimulate the community to construct beneficial infrastructure; and it allows reaching more
villages within available funds. If the initial village program tums out to cost less than the grant, then the
village can select additional works, until no funds remain. Up to 5% of the village grant can be used to



Second Village Infrastructure Project         - 10 -                        September 13, 1996
compensate the village leaders, LKMD secretary and work overseers, and to cover administrative
expenses.
3.11   Selection of public infrastructure subprojects by villagers. The kepala desa heads the LKMD
(village community resilience institution) and leads discussions among village group representatives to
agree on project priorities; IDT program facilitators and other PMD local staff are available to help the
process. Village proposals are submitted to the camat, for harmonization. if necessary through the
UDKP (Unit Daerah Karva Pembangunan) at the subdistrict level, and agreed programs are further
checked to ensure that the proposals are not already covered in another, funded program. Subprojects
that would normally be included in standard budgets ([NPRES) and normallv larger than those envisaged
here, are in principle not financed under the project.  Camats endorse the program. subject to a
satisfactory technical review by the field engineers (see below). The final approval should come no later
than May 31, 1997 and May 31. 1998, as indicated in the Project Implementation Plan.
3.12   Field engineers (consultants) first review the subproject proposals pre-approved by camats,
starting around March. They discuss the subprojects and propose modifications as may be needed for
technical reasons, and either give their technical (final) approval, or if an alternative subproject were
selected of a different type and cost estimate, then consult the camat again about the alternative. The
requirements for approval of a subproject by a consultant field engineer are elaborated in the Project
Manual; they are listed below and the specifics are recorded in each case, as followvs:
a)  the subproject must be a public infrastructure, technically and environmentally viable and
justified by the number of users and the cost per user:
b)  the funding available-the village grant and any village contributions-must be estimated
to be sufficient to complete the subproject.
c)  land requirements will be minimized: for any land or assets requirement that would affect
negatively a villager's income and require compensation, the village and the affected family
would agree on compensation that would improve or restore the living standard, income
earning or production capacity of the affected persons to pre-subproject levels in
accordance with the agreed Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement. The field
engineer verifies that all persons affected and who required compensation are satisfied with
the compensation provided. prior to the start of works. If no agreement can be reached, an
altemative location or subproject should be selected and the process, repeated if necessary:
d)  implementation plan, contractual arrangements, a work plan and number of village laborers
must be clear; and
e)  approaches to provide subsequent maintenance of the subproject must be agreed, including
assignment of responsibilities for maintenance works, training for maintelnance designees.
and financing, as necessary.
3. 13  In line with decentralization policies neither the PMU nor the Bank require to approve individual
subprojects. Normally, kabupaten level staff of PMD/P3DT Secretariat routinely survey villages about
their infrastructure needs and make the results available as a starting point for proposals by camats and in
turn by bupatis (Bappeda II level) and by provincial govemors (Bappeda I level), in the yearly bottom-up
planning process for the budget. This planning consultation process is perused by the project, but



Second Village Infrastructure Project         - 11 -                       September 13, 1996
ending essentially at the camat level, in line with current decentralization policies and to leave
decision-making at the village level for village works.
3.14   Implementation by villagers. The LKMDs are the implementation agencies of the project.
Village labor, rather than contractors, implemiient most of the works, especially road works. Villagers are
willing to work for some Rp.2,000-3,000 per shift, approximately the going minimum wage level. The
DPUKs act as "administrative" Pimpros for project activity and for recording the financial flows at the
kabupaten level. To the extent possible. they also help out with advice and provide/lease equipment to
the LKMDs. The PMD kabupaten and kecamatan levels act as "motivator" for community participation
and help the LKMD  improve its capabilitv in planning. implementation and maintenance of
infrastructure constructed by the LKMD.
3.15   Field engineering assistance to villagers. The project provides engineering services to assist
directly LKMDs with subproject initial approval. cost estimation, design, procurement, organization and
supervision of work, reporting, administration and some training to villagers (anid perhaps local
contractors) for the implementation of the subprojects and subsequent maintenance. Under the VIP it
was proven that I field engineer consultant can assist 5 villages (I cluster). Field engineers live close to
their village cluster to reduce travel and have a motorcycle for their transportation. A total of some 250
engineers for the VIP II first vear villages and 270 for the second year are foreseen. Consultants also
reviewed the clustering possibilities on Sumatra. where villages are more apart than on Java; their
findings have confirmed that in most areas, clustering is feasible. Where clustering difficulties so
require, an assistant may be provided to the field engineer. To strengthen the engineering input, area
technical coordinators will be included in the field engineer contracts.
3.16   The Project Manual. The Project Manual developed for VIP will be retained and made widely
available. It includes guidelines with engineering and environmentally sound standards for small public
works, adopted from  existing manuals (mainly from  MPW), simple compensation guidelines,
procurement forms, procedures and reporting to be used by LKMDs, etc. The Project Manual has been
reviewed and expanded to suit some local conditions on eastern Sumatra, especially swamp areas, where
road construction may require crib-type foundations and cement or lime soil-stabilization.
3.17   Central engineering/management assistance. The project framework, work standards, hiring
of the field engineer consultants and coordination witlh other projects and donors, are done at the central
level by the interministerial P3DT Secretariat assisted by consultants. In order to provide homogeneity
across clusters, an engineering/management team with a team leader and one to three senior consultants
per province assisted, will manage and supervise the project. The senior consultants also assist the P3DT
Secretariat in the selection of consultant firms from Java and Sumatra for the provision of field
engineers, in organizing workshops for them, and in launching the project. The team leader and a
counterpart with clear responsibilities are based in Jakarta, to assist the P3DT in overall management, but
are expected to be in the field most of their time. The other senior engineers are based in the provinces.
to be closer to the project villages, and are also assigned a counterpart each, from Bappedas 1, from the
time they mobilize.
3. 18   Monitoring assistance. The project also provides for the services of a tean of experts to assist
the PMU to monitor project implementation and impacts. Monitoring will use participatorv approaches
to the extent feasible anid will be coordinated with the IDT's own monitoring efforts. Some nonproject



Second Village Infrastructure Project           - 12 -                         September 13, 1996
villages will also be monitored to compare the results of various types of interventions, such as road
building under various type of programs, and some VIP villages would be revisited later on. The terms
of reference agreed for VIP monitoring wvill be used again, with improvements as required based on the
experience gained.
D. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
3.19   The project Wxould help finanice (a) village wvorks. and emplovymient up to the agreed grant per
village, (b) engineerinig services. to help with design and implementation of the sclhcmies at the village
level and. at the central level, for the Project Maanagement Unit (PMU) to organize and coordinate
activities, supervise project implementation. and (c) technical assistance to monitor and evaluate project
impacts.
3.20   Cost composition.  TleC total cost of the project. summarized in Table 3.1. is cstimated at
Rp.383.1 billion ($159.6 millioni cquivalenlt).  Technical assistance for implementation support is
estimated to cost $18.0 million equivalent or about 11% of the project cost: the technical assistance for
monitorinig and evaluation. likely to be provided by local consultanlts, universities and BPS mav amount
to some $2.8 millioni or 2% of the project cost. The total base cost for technical assistance is thus
estimated at $20.8 million equivalent or 13% of the project cost. The direct or indircct foreign cost
component is small, estimated at some 10-20%  and accountinSg for the foreign, cost component of
technical assistance services. including vehicles- equipmenit depreciation included in contractors' bills:
and fuel and asphalt costs. Direct labor costs would exceed 50% of project costs depeniding on the
wvorks. thouglh the share of total labor costs (including labor in materials delivered) would be higher. The
standard 10% value added tax will apply to works by contractors and supplicr bills; the total tax amount
under the project will depend on the proportion of works done by villagers themiiselves. Administration
costs are included at standard percenitages (I % for central Governmenit, 1% for provincial agencies and
3% for local level agencies, of the grant amounts). Continigencies have been included for technical
assistancc: because of the programmatic nature. village allocations do not carry contingenicies.
3.21   Bank financing. The Bank loan of $140.1 million equivalent would finance 88% of project
costs. The high financinig percentage is on account of the poverty reductionl objectives of the project and
the fact that the Government is financinig other poverty reductioni programs o01 its own. The Governmenlt
woould cover 10/ of thc village grawts. and the fiull increased administration costs. The 10% 0value added
tax on techinical assistance contracts has been wvaived in accordance with PP42/95.
TABLE 3.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total    % of
(Rp Billion)                (US$ Million)           Total
Goods. Works, Services       28(.8     31.2      31210   117.)       13.1)     130()      83
TA Inplementation Support     38.9      4.3      43.2      16.2       1.8       I 1)(    11
TA Monitoring & Evaluation     6.1     (0.7        6.8      2. 5      0.3        2.8       2
Increased Admiinistrationi    15.6      --       15.6       6.5       --         6.5       4
Base Cost            341.4      36.2     377.6    142.3       15.1      157.3     10()
Contingencies                  5()      0.5        5. 5     2.1       (.2        2 3        1
TOTAL                346.4      30.7     3x3.1    144.3       15.3      159.6     101



Second Village InfrastmUcture Project          - 13 -                        Septembcr 1 3. 1996
TABLE 3.2: PROJECT FINANCING
Local   Forcign    Total    Local   Foreign      Total    %yo of
(Rp Billion)                (US$ Million)          Total
GOI                           46.8      --       46.8     19.5       --        19.       12
IBRD                         299.6     36.7     336.3    124.8      153       140.1      88
TOTAL                346.4     36.7    383. 1    144.3       15.3      1i9.o    lO)W
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounlding.
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. PROJECT COORDINATION AND MONITORING
4.1    Coordination. The VIP set-up will continiue for this project. BAPPENAS_ in particular its
Bureau of District and Rural Devclopment. will be the overall coordinating agency of the project. A
Project Management Unit (PMU/P3DT) has bcen established to oversee imiplementationi and includes
representatives of BAPPENAS, the Ministry of Finance. DGs Cipta KarNa and Bina Marga (MPW) and
DGs Bangda and PMD (MoHA). The PMU has a Secretariat (P3DT Secretariat) established to deal with
the Government's IDT poverty programii as well as related foreign-assisted village infrastructure
programs. The P3DT Secretariat for the VIP is supported by the leader of the engineer/management
teamn and consultants for sociocconomic moniitoring; this arrangement will also coIItiItnlu uLnder the
proposed project.
4.2    Monitoring. The P3DT Secrctariat, with the assistance of experts. would monitor the impact of
the program in selected villages durinig imiplemenitation and prepare an ex-post evaluation. Monitorers
are expected to be Indonesian entities such as uLiversities. NGOs or consultants. Furthlemnore, the
monitoring of the IDT program with the grant from the Governmcit of Japan, will be coordiniated with
the monitorinig of this project, and somiec villages included in other programs or with no program will be
monitored as well in order to ascertain differenices. Terms of reference were agreed for VIP and will be
reviewed as necessary. The VIP It monitoring fimi should be selected by about July 1997.
4.3    Bappedas levcl I (provincial) provide counterparts to the senior engineers and will monitor
infonriation about the project. Bappedas level 11 will ensure project coordinationi with other government
programs at the kabupatcn level.  PMD will assist in the selectioni of villages up front, in the
strengthening of LKMDs, in the facilitation of consultation process, and in molnitoring.
B. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
4.4    Yearly implementation. To achieve the objectives of the project. to maximlize local villagers
emplovymient for cash of and provision of local public infrastructure. the works would be executed mainly
during the dry season, from the beginning of May to end of September. wvhichi is wlhcin farmers are not
fullv employed in agricultural activities, when conditions are best for construction of public works, and
before standard public work budgets are released. Yearly project activities are scheduled around the
desired implementation season. An optimal yearly schedule is in Annex 3-the Project Implementation
Plan. prepared by the PMU following thc experienice unider VIP.



Second Village Infrastructure Project         - 14 -                        September 13, 1996
4.5    Implementation period. The project works arc to bc implcmented during 1997 and 1998. The
subprojects in any village are to be conipletcd in one vear. to curtail the time engineering assistance is
needed. The first VIP project year experience indicated that this is feasible. The impact evaluation will
proceed in 1999. Thus in all. the project will take about 3 vears. this is about half the execution time of
other projects, but is realistic given the proposed project characteristics and the experience under VIP.
C. IMPLEMENTATION OF WORKS
4.6    Implementation  agencies.   LKMDs will be tihc 'implementationi agencies" of village
subprojects. following agreements signed by the caniat and field engineer. LKMDs will serve as
contractors; they would either employ villagers directly and buy materials, rent equipment, etc. or if need
be, contract work or expertise with local contractors/technical experts. This procedure has already been
used successfully. Normally the local implementing agency is the DPUK but DPUKs have limited
capabilities and would be unable to implement the proposed project with their current staff. Thus,
DPUK Pimpros will delegate the technical and field wNork to the consultant field engineers, and retain an
administrative role onlv. Where DPUK engineers are able to help they are of course welcome to do so.
As stated in the Project Implementationi Plan, Pimpros will be selected in February 1997 and February
1998. The Pimpro appointment letter should be signed no laterthan April 1. 1997 and April 1, 1998.
4.7    Field engineers. The field cngineers will assist the LKMDs design, cost, plan, implement and
supervise works and prepare reports. They certify paymilent documentation in accordance with progress
of work. Field engineers will be trained in project specifics by the central team assisted by staff from
BAPPENAS, MoHA. MPW and MoF. at workslhops in the provinces, prior to deployment. They have
the Project Manual with guidelines for choice of unit price or lump sum contracts, preparation of bill of
quantities or set of unit prices (depending on1 direct labor or subcontract). teclinical specifications to be
enforced, including environmental guidelines. quality standards, control activities and other aspects.
Special care is needed in the costiilg of subprojects given that there are no funds to cover any cost
overrun beyond the village grant. The project design foresees that each engineer will assist 5 villages;
this was proven adequate on Java under the VIP. but if necessary under the proposed project, an assistant
may help the field engineers in more -'dispersed" clusters. A provincial senior engineer, from the core
team, is available to advise and to supervise progress in the field. Given the large number of villages,
kabupaten level supervisors and coordinating engineers will also be available to assist the field
engineers.
4.8    Village labor. Under VIP and in surveys villagers have indicated willingness to work for low
"incentive payments" provided the works benefit their village and are seen as a public project. The pay
should not be so high as to attract laborers away from similarly paying activities they would otherwise
undertake, since that would not create employment; the wage should be low enough for the poor to self-
select for the project works. If more villagers want to work than the works canl absorb (normally the case
under VIP), an agreement is reached in the village as to number of days each interested villager would
work and when. The agreement would be reviewed by the field engineer for approval of the subproject.
Unskilled village labor get a lump sum for the task, paid periodicallv by output. This results in some
Rp.2,000/3,000 equivalent for a 5-6 hour day of work. This is generally accepted minimum local level
wages; villagers would incur no transportation cost nor costs for food away from home. A village
foreman (mandor) would be designated by the LKMD for each subproject and be assisted by the field
engineer; skilled labor will also be hired as needed, at locallv competitive wages. Organizing workers is
an important part of project implementation.



Second Village Infrastructure Project         - 15 -                        September 13, 1996
4.9    NGOs. Indonesia has a large number of NGOs-many are present at the subdistrict level and
some are active in village programs.  NGOs are welcome to contribute to implementation of the
proposed project; they could assist villages with community participation in subproject selection and
employment plans. NGOs and universities are engaged under VIP for project monitoring and evaluatiolln
they are also engaged under a Japanese Grant to monitor and evaluate the IDT program on a sample basis
in all provinces in 1996 and 1997. It is expected that NGOs/universities will also participate in the
bidding under VIP 11 for the rapid rural appraisals and that BPS will again assist with other impact
monitoring aspects (para. 4.30).
4.10   Project implementation plan. The steps required by each agency as wvell as their timinig are
well established under the VIP. An agreed implementation plan is included in Anniex 3. Some of the
salient steps are:
a)  inform villages of their selection. December 3 1. 1996 and December 3 1 1997 (para. 3.8).
b)  village work program approval by field enginieers and camnats. May 31. 1 997 and May 3 1
1998 (para. 3.1 1):
c)  VIP 11 monitoring firm to be selected by July 1997 (para. 4.2);
d)  Pimpros designated in Febriary 1997 and 1998 and the appointment letter signed bv April
30. 1997 and 1998 (para. 4.6);
e)  shortlist for monitoring consultants to be agreed by December 3 1, 1996 (para. 4.12): and
f)  invite field engineer firms to submit proposals in December 1996 and finalize selection in
January 1997 (para. 4.12).
D. PROCUREMENT
4.11   Bank guidelines. Procurement under the project is required for goods and works and for
consultant services. Procurement will be in line with Bank procurement guidelines and procedures
("Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated January 1995 and revised in
January 1996 and 'Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by World Bank
as Executing Agencv' of August 198 1).
4.12   Technical assistance.  The engineer/management team, field engineerinig  services, and
monitoring and evaluation services are procured at the central government level by the P3DT Secretariat.
Subject to prior review bv the Bank are: consultant contracts with an estimated value of $100.000 or
more for the engagement of firms, and $50,000 or more for the engagcment of individuals: all tenis of
reference, and single source selections of consulting firms regardless of contract values. The total cost of
technical assistance is estimated at $23 million equivalent. The Bank's standard form of Contract for
Consultants' Services, dated June 1995, will be used. Modalities and status are as follows:
a)  Engineering/management team. The core senior engineer team of VIP will be retained for
the project. Agreemllenlt on terms of referenice for additional experts and a sliortlist of firmns
will be sought between the Bank and P3DT Secretariat. The selection will be based on
submissions detailing the proposed managemiienit concept, qualification of experts. and
costs/costs bases for the contract.



Second Village Infrastructure Project         - 16 -                       September 13, 1996
b)  Field engineer services. Under VIP a different firm was hired for each province of West,
East and Central Java, the latter including Yogyakarta needs, to provide field engineers
(field engineers could be subcontracted from other firms). The same terms of reference will
be used; shortlists each comprising about 5 firms will be agreed by December 2. 1996 for
the Java and Sumatra provinces included in the first year of the proposed project.
Bappedas I will provide a long list of Indonesian firms. The P3DT Secretariat will invite
the shortlisted firms to submit proposals in December 1996, and the selection for the first
project year should be completed in January 1997.
c)  Monitoring and evaluation services. Terms of reference for monitoring expertise agreed
for VIP will be retained. Agreement on a shortlist would be sought by December 30, 1996.
4.13   Subprojects. It is expected that LKMDs will carry out most works by direct village labor
(community participation, expected to total $120 million) under village implementation agreements with
the DPUKs. LKMDs may also contract supplies of materials, rental of equipment, and small works by
local contractors, following national shopping procedures, or procedures for procurement of small works.
No intemational competitive bidding is envisaged; each LKMD will procure goods and services, and
such small contracts would not attract international firms. Simplified implementation agreements and
documentation for national shopping have been agreed to (Annex 4) and are included in the Project
Manual. National shopping will require at least 3 quotations for each proposed contract. No contract or
agreement would exceed $50.000 equivalent (the village grant of Rp. 120 million) and most contracts are
expected to be well below half that amount. All works may be done by community participation;
nevertheless, procurement under small works procedures may total up to some $5 million (see Table
4. 1). These procedures are in line with the Indonesian government procurement rules; under Kepres
16/94. Pimpros can approve, on their own, contracts up to $250,000 equivalent. These procedures are
acceptable to the Bank and are emploved.in ongoing projects. Field engineers will help the LKMDs, as
ma' be needed for the community participation works, to: (i) organize village labor including pay
setting (para. 4.8), (ii) hiring equipment, (iii) purchasing materials and tools; or (iv) contracting out.
Works would not start until any required compensation for land or assets in the village has been made as
mentioned in Annex 5 and the Project Manual. Any contractor will be required to use village labor.
4.14   Prior and post review. Contracts for goods and works of the size envisaged in this project are
not normally subjected to prior review: it would be impractical given their small amounts and their large
number. the need for quick approval, and the safeguards built-in in the project design (consultants will be
in place to assist (field engineers) and to supervise (engineer/management team) the process, and further,
audits and Bank supervision will be conducted, as well as random ex-post review of SOE
documentation). Nevertheless, the Bank shall do a prior review in each kabupaten of the first contract,
for goods and for works under the village implementation agreements, that is valued at or above $10,000
equivalent. The provincial senior engineer under the project would be responsible for tracking the
contracts; relatively few contracts above $10,000 are expected. The ex-post review of documentation is
expected to be similar to that under the first year VIP (see para. 2.5). Based on experience so far, the
sampling coverage will probably be some 10%, but at least 2% of all contracts will be subject to ex-post
review.



Second Village Infrastructure Project           - 17 -                         September 13, 1996
TABLE 4.1: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million) a/
Expenditure Category                Other 2/           NBF.c/           Total Cost
Goods, Works and Services under Granits         130.0                                130.0
(117.()                              (1177.)
Consultant Services                              23.1                                 23.1
(23.1)                               (23.1)
Total                                   153.1                                153.1
(140.1)                              (140.1)
L/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts tinanced by the Bank.
b/ Includes work by community participation (up to $120 million). and procurement of small wvorks (up to $5 million).
and consultants selected following Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
c/ Not Bank financed.
E. DISBURSEMENTS
4.15   Disbursements at local level. For reasons of cost efficiency, the project will pay for output
(itemized works) against measured progress and prorated lump-sum contracts. Following the procedure
adopted under the Government's IDT poverty program, by instructions of the Ministry of Finance the
Bank Rakvat Indonesia (BRI) unit closest to the village will be allowed to disburse the village allocation,
against withdrawal requests certified by the field engineer.  The field engineer will fornvard the
implementation agreements (certified by the camat), and contracts to the administrative Pimpro in
DPUK, who in tum will forward the original to the respective KPKN. LKMDs will be paid at the BR]
units when presenting their withdrawal requests certified by the field engineer, according to progress of
works. Village laborers thus would be paid in cash every 2 weeks or weekly. BRA has agreed that its
units provide access to their LKMD accounts, inter alia to the field engineers and supenrision and audit
staff. The fund flow is shown in Annex 2.
4.16   The Bank will not be involved in the approval process of every contract and disbursement at the
village level, but will inspect contracts at random  during  supervision of the project.   The
engineering/management team will supervise the subprojects while visiting every project village at least
once, on behalf of the PMU/P3DT Secretariat.
4.17   GOI prefinancing. The Government has agreed to make Rp.20 million available per village to
finance the initial advance and the initial disbursements to the units of BRI, no later than April 30, 1997
and April 30, 1998. This is required because the Bank cannot have "cascading" advances, at the central
level and in the provinces. GOI disbursements will be channeled through the regional KPKNs, to the
respective BRI branches.
4. 18   As is customary, the Government will also provide its agencies involved in project monitoring or
management, the administrative/operational budget as required. For this purpose. the additional 5% of
the total project grant amount will be clearly budgeted for each agencv.



Second Village Infrastructure Project          - IX -                        September 13, 1996
TABLE 4.2: DISBURSEMENTS
Category                          Amount                      Disbursement Rate
(US$ equivalent)
(I ) Goods. Works and Services               117000,00(J0                      90%
(2) Conisultaut Services                      20,800,000                       1(0%
(3) Uniallocated                               2 300-000
Total                  140.100,000
IBRD Fiscal Year             1997             1998             1999              2000
Annual                              10               55                65              10.1
Cumulative                          10               65               130              140.1
4.1 9   Bank disbursements. Disbursements uiider the Loan wvould be (i) for expeniditures incurred by
project villages for goods. works and services unlder grants. at 90%, and (ii) consultant services, at 100%.
In order to facilitate Bank disbursemenits. the Goveniment would establish a Special Account with an
amount of up to $14 million (which represent four months eligible expenditure) in Bank Indonesia, and
an initial deposit of $7 million following loan effectiveness. This account should be maintained by the
Directorate General of Budget, MoF, following the established procedures. The proposed Special
AccouLnt would be used for all eligible foreign and local expenditures. Disbursements under the Bank
loan for village infrastructure expenses wvould be made througlh the existing "force account" mechanism
(samue as VIP-I) and reimbursed by the Bank loan. Replenishlment applications to the Special Account
will be made every two weeks or when 20% of the initial deposit has been used, whichever is first.
Disbursements from  the loani proceeds for the following contracts would be made under full
documentation: consultant service contracts costing the equivalent of $100,000 or more for firms and of
$50,000 or more for individual consultants. All other disbursements would be made against Statements
of Expenditures (SOEs). The documents would be retained by the respective project implementation
uLits aind made available for review as requested by visiting Bank missions or auditors. The loan will
not fund any land acquisition or compensation. The disbursement schedule is shown above. The closing
date of the project is December 31. 1999. A graph with disbursement profiles for Bank loans to
Indonesia. for VIP and for the proposed project is in Annex 6.
F. PROJECT ACCOUNTS, REPORTS AND AUDITS
4.20X   The pro ject allocation per kabupaten would be inscribed in the vearlv local budgets, APBD Tk II,
SPABP for recording purposes: the administrative-related budgets, will be inscribed for each agency and
made available timely for field visits, meetings, etc.
4.21   Monthly reports.  As described in the Project Manual, montlhly project accounts will be
providcd through various sources:
a)  field engineers prepare monthly statements, reports and tables on physical progress per type
of works, value of works, and days worked by village in their cluster, and disbursements
based on the BRI units' statements, anid submit them to the senior engineer. The statements
are completed within I week following the month reported on,



Second Village Infrastructure Project        - 19 -                       September 13, 1996
b)  the P3DT Secretariat/TA team consolidates the monthly work-related statements of the
engineers, by kabupaten and province and total, within 3 weeks of the month reported on:
c)  DGB provides periodically consolidated statements per kabupaten, province and total, for
reimbursement bv the Bank from the Special Account, and for replenishment of the Special
Account, copied to the P3DT Secretariat for information; and
d)  villages keep track of their funds via their own accounts, the BRI statements, and data on
employment, outputs and remuneration compiled by the kepala desa/field engineer. The
public posting of this information was not fully complied with under the first year of VIP,
but was during the second; its enforcement will be given attention under the proposed
project.
BRI units involved keep records of account deposits from the KPKNs, and disbursements and cumulative
totals for each project village, and available balances. Their records are available in their offices, but are
not copied for distribution outside BRI.
4.22   Other periodic reports. Additional reports will be provided as follows:
a)  the P3DT Secretariat will prepare quarterly progress reports starting March 31, 1997 and
annual progress reports by March 31, 1998 and March 31, 1999, including inter alia
progress per category (roads, water supply. piers, bridges, others; and labor, materials,
contracts); and
b)  the DPUK Pimpros keep copy of certified statements to account for expenditures related to
the APBD Tk II allocations and compile an annual report for Bupatis.
4.23   Audits. The above reporting system developed under VIP will be continued for the project.
Agreement was also reached that the consolidated project accounts, including the Special Account and
the SOEs, would be audited annually by independent auditors in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and
that the audit report would be furnished to the Bank no later than September 30, each year commencing
in 1998. The P3DT Secretariat will undertake project account audits. The SOE audits will be the
responsibility of the DG Budget (MoF). The Bank has no objection to BPKP conducting the audits.
Financial audits of SOEs would be conducted randomly, to cover at least 10% of villages. In addition,
assurances were obtained that independent auditors will be appointed for technical audits of project
implementation aspects in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. The technical audits will review, inter alia,
the quantity and quality of works performed. their being in line with related expenditures, and the
maintenance plans. The financial and technical audits may be made simultaneouslv for the same
subprojects, and start early to avoid bunching. Terms of reference for the audits will be as under VIP.
G. LAND ACQUISITION, RESETTLEMENT AND COMPENSATION
4.24   Minimal land acquisition. As was the experience under VIP, no physical displacement is
expected to take place under this project. Subprojects requiring displacement would be redesigned to
avoid resettlement or altemative subprojects, proposed. The infrastructure to be financed is generally of
a small scale. Installations for a public source of drinking water, a tap or a pump, do not need much
space; small pipes-maybe no more than a hose-if needed to bring water from a natural source, cause
little disruption on land use. All weather access roads would normally be built on existing access paths,
and would be no more than 4 meters wide. This width may exceed the existing one. but generally by no



Second Village Infrastructure Project         - 20 -                       September 13. 1996
more than 3 meters. Since houses are normally set back from walk paths and roads, impacts on them
would therefore be minimal. In those cases where houses are partially located within the widening area.
house owners normally agree to move them back because houses are normally temporary (bamboo or
timber) structures that can be moved relatively easily. and property values increase significantly once
roads are built-owners could sell the property later at a profit, as there are active land markets. Village
groups agree to assist the owner in moving his house. However, footpath accesses to the more isolated
villages but still eligible for the project, normally in mountainous areas. may not have alignmenits
appropriate for upgrading to road standards. In these cases, the field engineer will help determine
appropriate alignments and the village would make the land available (if it was too large a project. then
the village wouLld have been excluded from the program since the grant would not make a significant
"access7 difference).
4.25   Compensation per Bank criteria. Negative economic impacts caused by land acquisition are
also expected to be slight for the reasons stated above. The Project Manual states the need to keep land
acquisition to a minimum. Traditional processes of voluntary contributions are followed in villages
wvhere some land is unavoidably needed. To minimize peer pressure risk, however, where land needed
exceeds for example 20% of a villager's plot, the affected villagers will be given replacement land, other
equivalent productive assets or other in-kind compensation as negotiated during the village consultation
meetings (normally common-tenure lanid is used for compensation).  If a solid structure has to be
demolished, the village would provide materials and help build an equivalent structure. Subprojects that
involve compensation of this nature for land or other assets will not be approved by field engineers
unless adequate compensation arrangements have been agreed by the villager affected and the LKMD.
and compensation should have been made prior to the start of work (para. 3.12). In the unlikely event
that a larger number of persons were negativelv affected due to a subproject (e.g. more than 200 persons
each lost nmorc than 20% of their land or assets) and the field engineer found nio alternative that would
reduce the number of affected persons. then Bank approval of a related compensationi/resettlemiient plan
would be sought prior to proceeding with the subproject. In case of disagreement, affected villagers can
complaini to their field engineer and camat. Thev can also complain in writing to the P.O. Complaints
Box 5000 instituted successfully for the IDT program (para. 1.7). The criteria have been agreed with the
Goveniment for the VIP. as sumtimarized in Annex 5: thev are included in the Project Manual. The above
criteria are consistent with the Bank Guidelines for Involuntarv Resettlement (that include both
physically relocated as well as only economically affected persons: the proposed project foresees only
the latter) that require that negativelv affected families have their standard of living improved or at least
restored to pre-project levels.
H. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
4.26   Low environmental impact. The project has been classified in environmlental category B. The
scope of village subprojects will be relatively minor. Access roads would be built with appropriate
aligiinlenits, cross and longitudinal drainage and gradients to lengthen the road life and minimize erosion
that higlher standard roads may create. Better provision of water in the project areas which are normallv
short of water in drv seasons should have a beneficial environmental impact and mav even help grow
vegetative contours. Overall the environmental impact is expected to be small, and positive. Given the
programzmatic nature of the project and the small environmental impact expected, no environmental
impact assessment will be prepared up front. Progress reports and supervisions would indicate ani
problems encountered and solutions adopted during implementation.
4. 7   Environmental guidelines. The VIP Project Manual includes standard designs and criteria
prepared in the past by DG Bina Marga and DG Cipta Karxa for small works; these designs incorporate



Second Village Infrastructure Project         - 21 -                        September 13. 1996
environmental guidelines that are in accordance with Bank requirements. The VIP 11 Manual includes
presentation improvements suggested during 1995, the first year of use. The Manual is made widely
available to DPUKs, LKMDs and field engineers under the project (and the Manual is also being used for
other projects). The field engineers are required to incorporate sound environmental criteria in designs
of subprojects and verify their compliance during construction supervision.
4.28   Maintenance. Field engineers are also to explain to villagers the importance of maintenance
and how to maintain the infrastructures built under the project. for the works to last and enlvironmental
sustainability.  A maintenance plan is to be prepared in each village as part of the granit village
implemiientation agreement. Under the first year VIP, villagers agreed to maintain the works with their
gotong-royong' or voluntary labor system; however, some additional discussion1s will be needed if
additional, non-project cash outlays were to be required to buy materials or spare parts. The maintenanice
pledges are vet to be tested: the first year works under VIP were completed early 1996. Each field
engineer would return to the villages he assisted in 1995 to learn from his review, how the infrastructure
is holding up, and to help villagers with maintenance, in practice. Samiple villages shall be rcvisited to
review maintenance practices a vear or two after work completion.
1. PROJECT INDICATORS, MONITORING AND BANK SUPERVISION
4.29   Performance indicators. Physical progress as well as other aspects of the project will be
monitored following forms and indicators included in the Project Manual. The indicators are used for
VIP as part of the reporting/monitoring system. For monthly monitoring. the indicators focus on inputs
and outputs during implementation: participation of the poor (workdays of employmilenit). average and
total pay to labor; purchases of materials; physical works-such as kilometers of access roads built.
percent of plans, etc. These indicators are compiled by village and aggregated by kabupaten. province
and total. An indicator report sample from VIP is in Annex 7. Any land and compensation matters.
environmental effects, qualitv of selection and implementation of works, are to be reviewed and reported
on a sampling basis and will not have standard -"performance indicators". The P3DT Secretariat would
make available to the Bank all the progress reports mentioned.
4.30   Impact monitoring. Longer term impacts, such as the effect of a road construction on farmgate
price levels. on transportation costs. or of improved water provision, on its costs and quantitv and health
impact, can be evaluated once the village subproject is completed. Thuts various monitoring exercises
cover these aspects,
a)  upon completion of works in the village,
i) the field engineers complete a -'benefit evaluation" report;
ii) NGO/universities or other consultants undertake. in a sample of villages. a rapid rural
appraisal (RRA) of the project impact on various segments of the village population;
iii) BPS undertakes its socioeconomic household (SUSENAS) surveys in the same
villages surveyed for the RRAs. and the results are compared with simultaneous data
from non project villages- and
iv) all the monitoring sources are analyzed jointly.



Second Village Infrastructure Project        - 22 -                       September 13, 1996
b)  one or 2 years after completion, BPS SUSENAS surveys would be undertaken again in the
original project village sample to compare the evolution of their household data over time,
and with non-project villages. If warranted by "significant" results, tracing surveys would
be done 3 or 4 years after completion of the village project-probably in the first VIP
villages, for time constraints, and an analysis would be made with the data.
4.31   Supervision. The Bank would supervise the project via about 3 visits per year to randomly
selected villages, BRI units and other relevant agencies to review all aspects of progress, such as local
employment, costs and progress of work and impact on beneficiaries/the village. The Bank and GOI
would undertake an in-depth mid-term review after the first year implementation by February 28, 1998;
for which a report integrating the results of monitoring and evaluation activities, should be available on
or about January 31, 1998. Any adjustment deemed necessary will be made following the review, or
earlier if warranted. A Supervision Plan is included in Annex 8.
5. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. JUSTIFICATION
5.1    Analysis of alternatives. The Govemment wants to accelerate poverty reduction in Indonesia
and has assigned a high priority in the Bank's lending program to assisting its poverty program. Given
the good experience under VIP. it was estimated that the best way to reach many more poor villages
quickly was a follow on project based on the same VIP criteria. The project design has been embraced
by local and central agencies, as the more efficient one. and indeed, other projects are replicating the
features to some extent or fully.
5.2    Decentralization/stakeholder involvement.  The project provides a means to reach poor
villages directly, enabling a higher share of the funds to reach the poor faster, as layers of agency
involvement and supply delivery costs are reduced. By directing the funds to community selected
infrastructure projects likely to also be implemented and maintained with self-help, the community sense
and productivity of the poor are expected to increase and allow the poor to participate in economic
growth while contributing to it.
5.3   Institutional capacity analysis. Under VIP, the village groups and their institution, the LKMD,
headed by the village chief, have proven able to plan and, with the help of the field engineer, to
implement, small infrastructures.  The branches of the Public Works Ministry have successfully
supported the project with their mainly administrative role, and the BRI units have proven able to deal
with the advances for and disbursements to the villages within their existing capacity. The proposed
project extends the approach (described in Chapter 3) to more villages on Java and to Sumatra.
5.4   Java. Many ongoing programs already focus on the outer islands. Assisting poor villages on
Java and Sumatra to improve their infrastructure is justified. Villages on Java are larger so that more
people will use and benefit from infrastructure there, and construction costs are generally lower on Java
than elsewhere-meaning that more can be achieved with a fiscal dollar targeted on Java. Furthermore,
while the overall poverty incidence may be lower on Java than elsewhere, on Java the poor are more
numerous and may be relatively concentrated in smaller areas that can be better targeted and where the
earned cash may be more easily used in a productive way than in remote, outer island villages.
According to various sources, Java has higher than average infant mortality and high malnutrition.



Second Village Infrastructure Project         - 23 -                        September 13. 1996
5.5    Sumatra. Assisting poor villages on Sumatra is also justified. Sumatra has the second largest
number of poor, mostly in villages with difficult access and limited year round potable water. While
villages are normally smaller than on Java, so that the project grant is larger on a per capita basis, the
needs may be larger because of more village isolation and more difficult terrain that may need more
equipment based works or materials. The project would not assist the more remote villages, because the
grant could not make a significant difference there-other types of projects are needed; and in very poor
areas, over time new generations may prefer to seek better livelihoods elsewhere. It is common for a
family member to be a migrant worker providing remittances, and this would continuc after the project.
In such villages, better education is a priority-they know its value for jobs and pay levels in towns. The
govemment envisages expanded programs to improve primary education in parallel to the proposed
project; better teachers in villages is a priority for rural development.
5.6    Targeting. While not all the absolute poor live in the poor villages, addressing the needs of the
poor villages facilitates targeting. More of the funds would reach poor villagers compared to other
targeted public programs with higher delivery costs and less self-targeting. Employment and cash
compensation to village laborers is an important feature of the project. The cash to be eamed under the
project could provide an addition to the poorer household budgets; works can be scheduled so as to not
interfere with other income-eaming activities. Indeed, under VIP work demand nonnallv exceeded the
employment possibilities of the village grant, despite the relatively low incentive payment. In some
cases, however, there was work substitution: villagers considered the infrastructure to be top priority and
could finally devote their effort to building it because with the project pay they could buy food-without
the pay they lacked "credit" or capital. and had to get jobs elsewhere.
5.7    Beneficiaries.  Project beneficiaries are estimated at a maximum  5 million-the project
villagers. Poor laborers from outside the project villages may also benefit: materials such as stone,
gravel and sand for road works and surfacing normally have to be procured from outside the project
villages, and it is normally poor landless laborers who work in quarries. Many villagers in the selected
poor villages have subsistence livelihoods. Many are living with no more than $100 equivalent per year,
and a minimum cash income that however is necessary to buv clothing, basic medicine. primary school
materials, transport serices and other necessities. All weather access could make possible/affordable
commuting from the village to nearby urban type jobs and slow down outright emigration from rural
areas. With the project cash earned, village workers can also improve current or/and future consumption.
5.8    Training. Villagers may gain some technical and administrative knowledge with the program.
LKMDs greatly appreciated the VIP experience of managing and administering what for them was a
large project, and expressed interest in undertaking more works, even with bidding provided the
competition was "reasonable". Furthermore, villagers would be given some training to undertake
maintenance works, during the one year that the engineers assist each village.
5.9    Fiscal impact and cost recovery. The project design achieves the objectives at the lowest fiscal
cost: small infrastructures built with villager participation have proven under VIP to have lower unit
costs than equivalent works built under standard Ministry of Work contracts, even when thc cost of the
field engineers is included. The average project cost per villager is about $30 equivalent, somewhat
more on Sumatra, less on Java. That is, the benefits per fiscal dollar are larger with the VIP concept for
village works, and the benefits compare favorably with other types of public projects. To the extent that
the assistance is in the form of grants to villages, the Govemment does not have fiscal cost recovery per
se--but the benefits accruing to villagers provide economic cost recovery over at most 3 years, based on
the experience of the VIP (see Annex 9).



Second Village Infrastructure Project           - 24 -                        September 13, 1996
5.10   Cost-effectiveness. The project focuses on infrastructure where implementation effectiveness is
generally higher. Labor-intensive methods are also efficient for the public budget. Villagers are willing
to work for the equivalent of about $1 per day. and at that cost labor intensive metlhods arc competitive
with capital intensive methods for the simple types of works envisaged. The villagers have to undertake
to maintain the facilities to be built under the project: but having participated in the construction and
aware of the infrastructure benefits, in sunveys villagers have indicated that they would maintain the
assets at no charge. provided they are taught how to.
5.11   Infrastructure ERRs. Without COunitillg the benefits from employment and lower unit costs of
works, the assets to be built under the project have high rates of retum, exceeding 20%. A majoritv of
the fhinds is likely to be used for building all weather access roads and bridges-nany of the poor
villages lack an all weather connection to their kecamatan center" with a minimum of 700 persons per
village-and several villages possibly usinig a common access-paths have considerable traffic and their
upgrading to all weather passabilitv has good economic retums. Thc provision of drinking water, as
denionstrated alreadv in other projects, also has high retumrs. Water by vendors or fetched at a distance
has highl cost and is rationed to occasionally unhealthy levels. Cost and scarcity of clean water can be
cased, even when the bulk water supply may be bought from a water utility. Women in villages report a
decrease in diarrhea and gastroenteritis following improved water supply. Examples of the high retums
to provision of all weather access roads and bridges are illustrated in Annex 9, based on the VIP
experience.
5.12   Sustainability. The infrastructure the villagers will build can last many years with maintenance,
and the villages commit themselves to unldertake the mainiteniance, given that they value the
infrastnictures. An effort will be made to reach good quality construction standards: with high standards,
benefits over the infrastructure life should be substantial. During supervision visits, it seems that the
delegation process changes villagers' attitudes and outtlook, but it is too early to gauge the durability of
this. The employment generated under the proposed project is of a temporary nature. For longer term
emllployment, it may be possible to establish systems to contract villagers for labor-intensive road
mainitenlance. The project type itself is not meant to be replicated on a standard basis: following this
assistance, it is the govemrment's objective to proceed with different projects to promote income
generation through rural-urban linkages and integration, and the government has started changing the
INPRES svstem towards continuing greater decentralization. Some funding under current top-down
programs could be reassigned in the future to similar local decision-making and labor-intensive projects.
Provision of technlical assistance to the implementation level will be required for effectiveness.
5.13   Poverty analysis. The ultimate impact on poverty can probably not be measured during project
implementation. as it will show later. However, the monitoring efforts under the project will ascertain
changes in houiselhold incomes and other variables over time, both in project villages and in
counterfactuals, who benefited, wlhat other impacts the project had, etc., and because each village is
clearly identified, it will be possible to undertake follow up surveys later on.
B. RISKS
5. 14   Risks. The risks associated with the project are relatively few:
a)  the risk of imnproper targeting seems small: a "long list" of villages will be proposed by
Bappenas based on the national BPS survey and clusters of villages selected by district level
planning agencies. so that the village "targeting" cannot be too wrong. Even non-IDT
villages are often poor. though not classified as such due to the parameters used to define



Second Village Infrastructure Project         - 25 -                        September 13. 1996
IDT villages. Only the poorer villagers tend to want to work for low pay (average of $1 per
day). The works have to have high priority since the villagers choose what to do with the
one-time grant. There is a risk that if a village is too remote, it mavi not reach significant
benefits from the grant, this being too small to make a difference in accessibility or
economic growth, though localized improvements should materialize. Very remilote villages
would not be included in the program:
b)  the risk of find diversion seems to be small: full avoidance of diversion is not expected, but
given that funds go directly to the beneficiary village. the program is transparent and
controls are in place for uses within the village, the level of diversion should be small. Anv
further controls would most likely cost more than the diversion avoided,
c)  the risk of using labor-intensive methods, generally more difficult than capital-intensive
methods due to logistics involved, is worthwhile confronting in order to promote greater
self-reliance and cash employment in poor rural villages deficient in small infrastructures.
Self-help projects and small local contractors often employ labor-intensive methods, and the
engineering inputs foreseen under the project should help enhance productivitv levels and
improve quality of designs and works. There is a risk of low quality of works: increased
focus on qualityv output will be emphasized and should give an example to follow
subsequently in other works. Cost savings would compensate risks of labor intensive
works;
d)  the risk of slower project implementation is low: the schedule would not be slown down due
to absorptive capacitv constraints, given the VIP experience. but if necessary the project
allows extending the program implementation and the technical assistance;
e)  there is a risk of subsequent maintenance of the infrastructures being faulty; however. the
villagers are the users and the infrastructure sustainability will be of prime concemn to them.
The field engineers., further, are to impress on villagers the low costs and high benefits of
maintenance, maintenance practices, and as necessary. will identifv sources for financing
future maintenance: and
f)  there is a risk of field engineers not being up to theJ oh; this is minimized by early scrutiny.
workshops, supervision by senior engineers and Bank/PMU missions: the systemn works
well under the VIP.
5.15   During project implementationi. supervisioin, independenit monitoring and audits should all help
identify problems and take early corrective action.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6. 1    Agreement was obtained on the following:
a)  IVillagc selection process and criteria, including inter alia that consolidated village lists wvill
be furnished to the P3DT and the Bank not later than September 1. 1997 for the second
project year. and selected villages will be informed no later than December 31, 1996 (first



Second Village Infrastructure Project          - 26 -                        September 13, 1996
year program) and December 31, 1997 (second year program) (para. 3.8). The selection
criteria include inter alia, that project villages will comprise at least 700 persons, will be
selected in clusters, will be IDT villages or a non-lDT village in a cluster of IDT villages
(para. 3.9);
b)  Subproject selection, including that villagers will propose subprojects; camats will review
the proposals for hamronization at the subdistrict level, if necessary. and the field engineers
will review the proposals' technical and financial feasibility (para. 3.1 1). The Project
Manual specifies the criteria for selection and implementation of subprojects (paras. 3.12,
3.14, 4.13); incorporates the land acquisition and compensation and environmental criteria
agreed with the Bank (paras. 4.25 and 4.27); and requires a maintenance plan to be included
in the village implementation agreement (para. 4.28);
c)  Implemenfation arrangements, including that Bappenas, through the P3DT Secretariat, will
be responsible for overall coordination of the project (para. 4. 1) and that Pimpros shall be
appointed no later than April I in each project fiscal year (para. 4.6);
d)  GOIfinancing; Rp.20 million will be made available for the initial advance to each project
village no later than April 30, 1997 and April 30, 1998 (para. 4.17);
e)  Reporting; the P3DT Secretariat will prepare quarterly progress reports starting March 3 1,
1997, and annual progress reports by March 31, 1998 and March 31, 1999 (paras. 4.21 and
4.22). Technical audits will be carried out by independent auditors in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank and fumished to the Bank no later than September 30 in each year commencing
in 1998 (para. 4.23).
f)  Per/brmance ,noniloring indicators; the indicators used in VIP wvould be retained and
reported in monthly reports (para. 4.29) and in yearly more comprehensive reports (para.
4.30); and
g)  Mid-termn review; a mid-term  review  will be undertaken following the first year, by
February 28. 1998 (para. 4.31).
6.2    Project Implementation Plan.  The PIP (Annex 3) embodies the major steps and their
schedules, as laid out in preceding paragraphs (para. 4.10). The plan was confirmed by the Government
during negotiations.
6.3    Conditions of Board presentation. A revised Project Manual was finalized as a condition for
Board presentation.
6.4    Conditions for loan effectiveness. Only the standard requirements.
6.5    Recommendation. With the actions taken prior to negotiations and the above agreements, the
project is suitable for a Bank loan of $140.1 million to the Republic of Indonesia, payable in 20 years,
including 5 years grace. at the standard interest rate for LIBOR-based, US Dollar single currency loans.



- 27 -                              Annex I
(Page I of 3)
INDONESIA
SECOND VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJ1ECT
TABLE 1: POOR POPULATION BY PROVINCE
1993
URBAN                           RURAL                   URBAN + RURAL
PROVINCES    Poverty line  Number    % of   Poverty line  Number       % of      Number       % of
(Rp/Capita/    of     Poor in  (Rp/Capita/     of      Poor in       of       Poor in
month)     Poor   Population   month)       Poor    Population    Poor    Population
Aceh               29,020      69,919   10.13      22,043    426,800     14.23       496,719     13.46
NorthSumatra       26,822     494,479   11.72      19,117     837,152    12.70      1,331,631    12.31
West Sumatra       27,515      84,073    8.63      21,081    482,060     14.93       566,133     13.47
Riau               31,846      81,589    6.65      24,120     329,264    13.49       410,853     11.20
Jambi              28,507       7,030   10.22      22,027    242,350     14.43       299,380     13.38
South Sumatra      33,484      97,857   19.32      18,154    626,054     13.00     1,023,911     14.89
Bengkulu           29,796       2,067   10.26      18,450     141,045    13.99       173,112     13.11
Lampung Sumatra   22,374      107,382   11.62      15,587    644,435     11.64       751,817     11.63
Subtotal                  1,324,396   12.08              3,729,160    13.18      5,053,556    12.87
Jakarta            39,530     497,121    5.65          --          --       --       497,121      5.65
WestJava           30,559   2,327,139   15.55      20,497   2,285,213    10.01     4,612,352     12.20
Central Java       24,204   1,525,901   17.36      16,725   3,092,842    15.10     4,618,743     15.78
Yogyakarta         28,367     222,303   14.35      19.972     121,163     8.85       343,466     11.77
EastJava           26,680   1,704,433   16.85      16,924   2,719,276    11.69     4.423,709     13.25
Subtotal                 6,276,897   14.20               8,218,494    12.10    14,495,391     12.92
Bali               30,066     106,092   11.88      18,218     164,107     8.36       270,199     9.46
West Kalimantan    33,864     130,801   17.84      22,494    743,725     26.97       874,526    25.05
Central            35,261      51,823   16.36      26,093    269,755    22.01        321.578    20.85
Kalimantan
SouthKalimantan    34,107     113,929   14.11      24,976    403,823     20.46       517,752     18.61
EastKalimantan     40,012     116,681   10.93      29,011     178,241    16.55       294,922     13.75
Subtotal                   413,234   14.13               1,595,544    22.68      2,008,778    20.17
North Sulawesi     25,600       2,288    8.10      17,541     252,445    13.02       304,733     11.79
Central Sulawesi    22,166      7,842    7.63      16,608     166,055    11.18       193,897     10.48
South Sulawesi     25,024      57,162   13.04      16,033    401,990      7.48       659,152     8.97
East Sulawesi      24,210      26,555    8.75      16.311     135,724    11.37       162,279     10.84
Subtotal                   363,847   11.07                 956,214     9.57      1,320,061     9.94
WestNusa           25,503     141,751   21.98      17,677    550,670     18.97       692,421     19.52
Central Nusa       23,862      73,278   16.37      17,903    683,161     22.65       756,439    21.84
East Timor         29,780      14,814   20.78      19,705    278,144    37.74        292,958    36.24
Maluku             31,872      36,123    8.06      22,798    442,732    28.51        478,855    23.93
IrianJaya          33,060      56,675   12.31      20,006    385,176    28.15        441,851    24.16
Subtotal                   322,641   15.57               2,339,883    24.43      2,662,524    22.86
_    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .....  ....  ...._..



INDON ESI A
SECOND VILLAGE INFRASTRUCI'URIE 1'ROJECT
TABLE 2: Nuoltber of l'or or Villages, Avcrngc Populat ion and Area (ha), 1993
Urban and llural                               Urban                                        Rural
Province      Numlbcr of | Numuber of  Average l'er Villkwe   Nulihber of Number of   Average l'cr Village    Number of  Nuinher of   Average 1'er Village
P'opulation| Villages  Population    A ,Nrca    'opulation   Villages   Population    A ikrca    Population    Villages  P'opulation I  Area
Dl. Aech             905,433     2,275       398     1,964.4     33,774     31          1,089     134.9     871,659      2,244       388      1,989.7
Nonh Sumatera       1,165,051     1,364      854     1,135.8    190,041     33          5,759     119.2     975,010      1,331       733      1,461.0
WVest Sumatcra       809,408       700     1,156     2,858.3    '11,147     26          1,698    t108.5     765,261       674       1,135     2,952.8
Riau                 635,076       460     1,381     9,1 59.7    118,215    18         6,568    7,963.2     516,861       442       1,169     9,208.5
Jambi                263,553       275       958     5,66.1.0    26.245     12          2,187    1,930.2    237,308       263        902      5,834.4
Soulh Sumalera      1,447,246      715     2,024     5,118.8    132,230     38          3,480    1,236.4    1,315,016     677       1,942     5,336.7
Bengkulu             204,298       328       623     1,561.9     16,440      7          2,3.19    330.1     187,858       321        585      1,588.8
Lampung             1,206,546      635      1,900    1,786.2     31,229      8          3,901     192.2   1,175,317       627       1,875     1,806.5
Sumalra          6,636,611     6,752      983    29,549.1    592,321     173         3,424   12,614.7   6,044,290     6,579       919     30,178.4
kVcst Kalimanian     818,001       525     1,558    12,070.6     68,806     12          5,734     572.5     749,195       513       1,460    12,339.5
Central Kaliimiantan  848,501      696      1,219    14,489.3     4,369      3          1,156    5,100.0    8.1-1,132     693       1.218     14,528.7
Souilt Kalintailan   404,767       568       713     2,414.7     52,463     13          4,036      92.4     352,301       555        635      2,469.1
East Kalimantan      163,538       505       324    14,931.9     33,122      6          5,520    9,563.9    130,416       499        261      14,996.4
Kalimantan       2,234,807     2,294      974    43,906.5    158,760      34         4,669   15,628.8   2,076,047     2,260       919     44,333.7
North Sulaw'esi      414,188       361      1,147    2,022.4     60,434     24          2,518     205.6     353,754       337       1,050     2,151.8
Central Sulawvesi    426,349       601       709    20,331.8      5,207      3          1,736      14.2     421,142       598        704     20,433.7
South Sulawvesi     1,266,791      655      1,934    2,990.7    128,648     42          3,063     448.6   1,138,143       613       1,857     3,164.9
South East Sulawesi    391,879     327      1,198    5,576.7     19,549      6          3,258     660.7     372,330       321       1,160     5,668.6
Sulawesi         2,499,207     1,944     1,286    30,921.6    213,838     75         2,851    1,329.1   2,285,369     1,869      1,223     31,419.0
WVcs Nusa Tenggara    525,772      125     4,206     3,802.9     97,856     13          7,527     388.5     427,916        112     3,821      4,199.2
East Nusalcnggara    713,675       468      1,525    2,733.8     53,182     17          3,128     '126.9    660,493       451       1,465     2,820.7
East limor           423,010       312      1,356    3,166.7     25,235      4          6,309     721.9     397,775       308       1,291     3,198.5
Mlaluk)u             566,802       812       698     6,200.5      7,774      5          1,555      73.4     559,028       807        693      6,238.5
Irian Java           973,070      1,738      560    17,099.8      6,760      7           966   15,917.7     966,310      1,731       558      17,1041.6
Eastern Indonesia 3,202,329    3,455      927    33,003.7    190,807      46         4,148   17,528.4   3,011,522     3,409       883     33,561.5
OUISIDEJAVA-BALI 14,572,954    14,445       1,009    6,858.3  1,155,726    328          3,524    1,470.7  13,417,228    14,117       950      6,983.5
DKI JakJana          161,337        11    14,667       484.6    161,337     11         14,667     4841.6          0         0          0          0.0
Vcst Java          5,429,938      1,560    3,481       655.4  1,083,620    203          5,338     234.4   4,346,318      1,357      3,203       718.        
CentralJava         6,415,002    2,439     2,630       364.8    815,366    198          4,118     173.5   5,599,636      2,241      2,499       381.7     r Z
D.l. Yogyakana       587,820       111     5,296       879.1    167,062     19          8,793     611.4     420,758        92       4,573       93-1u4 4  lZ
East Java           5,457,580     1,969    2,772       437.6    865,883    232          3,732     212.2   4,591,697      1,737     2,643        467.8     o1
Bali                 293,460        98     2,994       878.4     59,137     17          3,479     239.8     234,323        81       2,893      1,012.4l 
JAVA-BALI          18,345,137     6,188    2,965     3,699.9  3,152,405    680          4,636     223.8  15,192,732      5,508      2,758       510.3
. NM  ,., . ,... s>   . , .  ...... ....  ...8.,,....H O6                         .___



INDONESIA
SECOND VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
TABLE 3: CALCULATION OF NUMBER OF VILLAGES FOR EACH PROVINCE IN JAVA AND SUMATRA
All Rural   IDT 94    OECF         OECF                                                       Final as %
Province     Villages     Rural    or VIP    or VIP    Remainder   VIP II           VIP II      Final      of IDT 94     VIP II Per Year
Pop > 700  Pop > 700    1995    1996 Plan                              (rounded                 Aided        97/98      98/99
DI Acch         1,239        392         53         75         264           99         150       277        57.91%         50        100
Sumut           2,716       622         62          50         510         248         250        360        57.88%        120        130
Sunibar         1,731        601        64          40         497         244         240        348        57.90%        120        120
Riau             899         330         61         40          229          90          40        141       57.88%         20         20
Jambi            827         190         29         40          121          41          40        110       57.89%         20         20
Sumsel          2,110        593        114         40         439          189         190       343        57.84%         75        115
Bengkulu         565         109         20         40           49           3          40        103       57.80%         20         20
Lampung         1,796        592        114         40         438          188         190       342        57.77%         75        115
Jabar           5,896      1,199        120        210         869          363        360        693        57.80%        180        180
Jateng          6,986      1,870        145        290        1,435        646         650       1,081       57.81%        325        325
DIY              313          85         30         20           35          -1           0        49        57.65%          0          0
Jatim           7,068      1,514        120       265         1,129        490         490        875        57.79%        245        245
32,146      8,097      2,927      1,150        6,015       2,600       2,600      4,682       57.82%       1,090      1,510
Villaees:
Sumatra        11,883      3,429       517         365        2,547      1,102       1,100                                 500        600
Java           20,263      4,668        415        785        3,468      1,498       1,500                                 750        750
Perccntage:
Sumatra         36.97      42.35      55.47      31.74        42.34      42.38       42.31
Java            63.03      57.65      44.53      68.26        57.66      57.62       57.69
OECF aided 1,700 villages in 95/96, bIut most werc less thani 700 population
Only includes rural villages with 700 population minimum                                                                                             PI n
Total nunmber of VIP 11 villages = 2,600                                                                                                             wDx
- 0



- 30 -                                         Annex 2
INDONESIA
SECOND VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Grant Authorization, Funds and Reporting Flows
WrdBan/S                Pua
ecre~ ..,.
Consultat                   !                                  J
*jcopy                \4     1: 
KPKN                                 aang           Province
copy        copy
Kabupaten
r- -  - - - -o 
g jl ~~copy.
(                                                                BRI Unit
*n     4                                         t    LKMD Acct           Kecamatan
L ------------=------=                                 --                        Desa
STEPS
I  ---------    Infrastructure grant authorization for disbursement
2                      Fund flow prefinancing
3   -- ---- - -- -    LKMD project assistance agreements
4   -------            LKMD invoices (1st for certification, then to BRI Unit) for projects agreed
5                      BRI payments to LKMD/Suppliers
6   -------------   Disbursement reporting (every 15 days/monthly)
7                      MoF reimbursement requests w/SOEs
8                      WB reimbursements



Schedule for ViSage Ilr*asructus,e Project It
_____                ______        ~~~~~P3CT  Secretarakt                _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _
1006                     1907                                  1008                                 1990
Activity          Date          A  fobs         0101112   1 2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9101112   1 2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9101112   1 2  3  4  5  S  7  8  0101112is  910  1 1   1      3      5      7      9   0  1 1   1      3    5     7      9  0 1   1
Technical Assisancre
SlattEMC Contract Procesn                   00.01.06   P3DT Secetauiakt    e0<
FkiaJize EMCContract                        11.0.96   Sec,J/EMC         ~       e~'
Awe.as on ahortist for field engineers. TORe  12.02.96   P3DT/IM''
Request for proposals for FEtfor 1997       12.18.06   Secr.IEMC                    a    v' 
Mobiizaaion of EMC                          01.06.07  Seer/SECw'                        * 
Sitmission of proposals for FE              01.24.07   FE                     W         e 
Start Advisor contract pro-cess             01.28.97   P3DT Secretatiat      's.        e.24
Agreement onFE proposals                    01.31.97  Secrt/EMC". 
Signing FE contracts                        02.12.07  SecriFE                                                      .              ''4
Field engineer nmobUizationworlchops       2.24-3.15  SecrIEMCTFE                                      '''2
Field engineers mobilized In kecamatans     3.3-4.6   FE                                                            '
Workshop wkhfield enginewrs                10.27-11.1 SecrIEMCtFE                                                    q~
Request proposals for additional FE         12.18.97   Secr./EMC             t 
General Prepeationa  *                                                                       I/                                                                                                   -A'
Agree onctwanges to Project Manual          10.31.96   Secifi54.'.4"                                                                                     *.
Ratification for loan effectiveness         12.18.96  G01                          ea..                                                                   .
Opening of WB Special Account in Bl         01.15.97   MoP                                                 
2                                                                                       .5
Project Manual printing                     01.20.97   EMC                              e.,
Selection ofPinmpros                        02.14.97  BupatUDPUK(..                                                                     ~4
Agree with BRI 1997lprogram                 02.20.97   SecrBIfll                                        .           ..          4...'4
Workshops with KPKNt/sat statf              03.20.97   MOP                    4                        .2                                                                                       2
Funding instructions tolKPK(Ns              04.01 .07   MoFjS0 
Appointment Letter of Project Managers      04.30.07  Bupati
Village Selection
Selection of kecamatan for 1097 program     00.01.96   PaCT Secretariat
Instr uctions to Bupati to start 1007 selection  09.04.06   PMO, Banglae
Instructions to camats to start 1007 selection    09.08.96   Bupati 
Initial selection of 1250 viltages in clusters of 5  09.26.98   Camnatl
Send 1097 village list to kabupaten level   09.28.06   Carmate
Village list sent to PaCT Secretariat. Bappeda    10.09.06  Bupati 
Review proposed clusters for 1097           11.15.96   Pemda Dati II/FE                                                                                      a 
Review ofl1997village lists                 11.20.96   P3DT Secretariate
Notifiction of villages of thaW selection   12.27.96   PMDe
Project Planning anbd Imfplembentation*
Initial subproject selection                02.17.07  LKMD 
Review of LKMD proposals; baseline data     03.24.07  Camnal/FE 
Finl approval of LKMD proposals             03.28.97   Camals                                                                       e
Open LK(MD accounts in SRI                  03.31.07  LK<MD/FE/Bfll                                                                 e                                                                       .
Register signatures at BRI/KPKN             03.31.07  LKMID/FE/Pimnpro                                             ' 
Designs andi imiplenmentation programa       5.16,97   LKIVID/FE/Camats       .'e                                                         e.                                                                   t
Signing Implementation Agreements            5.19.97   LKMvD/Pin'pro/Camat                                                                                                                                  tD 'e   X
Stautof Works inl1250villages                5.19.07   LKMD/FE                                      e4e$ 9peeeeeeqqq                      es*a$e4eeeep*4
Suttmit agreement-sto KPKN                   5.19.07   Pimprosee
Advances to SRI K(Abupatens (Rp 22 billion)  5.20.97   KPKN/MoFe'                                                                           
Advances to SRI Units                        5.21.97   SRI                                                                                a
Delivery ot tools arid materials             5.22.97   Su.pplierse..                                                                      a.
Note:  =routine activiies repeated in second year



Schedule for Village Inrdastructure Project II
____  ____________                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P3DT Secretaujat
- 1996                       1997                  __               1 998                                   199
_____   Activity                      Date       __A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ncies  9101112   1  2  3  4  56   7  B  9101112   1 2  3  4  5  67   B  9101112   12   3  4  567   B  9101112~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dte ____N~nces91011121    34    6 a      1    2 2    56    01
Reporting ankd Suprqevision 
Progress Report as of March 31, 1997          4.28.97   Secr/EMC                                     C                                N      0
St.prervision MAission                        7.1 -7.11   Secr/VM                               ..          .....
Progress Report as of June 30,1977            7.19.97   Secr/EIVC                                             .
Draft Progress Report                         9.18.97   Secr/EMC 
Sipervision Mission                          9.23- 9.30  SecrIWB                                                                        X
Progress Report as of Septerriter 30,1977     10.17.97   Sect/EMO                                                                                               A
Progress Repoft as of Decan-ter 31 .1997      01.25.98   Secr/EMC                                                                     .5
Audit of 1977 Program (financial A technricao  10.30.98   3PK(P...                                                                                                            ...
AnnuaVfinal report                            03 30.99   Secr/EMCS
SLjpervisionldata tFo completion report     5.15- 5.25.9S SeciPViB 
Integrated analysis (FE rueports/monit./BPS)  06.30.99   SecrlViB                                                                                                                                         Y
Audit of 1998 program (financial & technical)    08.30.99   BPKP                                Cx
Project Comp'jletion Report                   11.30.99   Secr/MB....                                                                                             ..
Monitoring
Monitoring final TORs an  shortlist (+sample)   06.27.97   SecrMB
Invite Proposas fof Monitoring                071.7 SecrftrB                           ~       .C..
Stbmrnssion of monitoring proposals           08.04.97   Fkms                    ...,. 
Review monitoring questionnat.s/contracts     08.20.97   Secr/Fems                                                 a
Selection of monitoring fwins                 08.20 97   P3DT Secretariat
Draft contract monitoring firms               08.29.97   Secr/1Fnms                                                     E-m
Detailed monitoring questionnares/methods     10.02.97   Firms
Agreeson monitoring methods                   10.09.97   P3DT Sec-retarrat
Workshop for monitors                         1.49        erMrW
Start monitoring infreid (project & norproject)   10.17.97   Monitors                                                                                                                                     .
Monitoring in sample villages                 11.10.97   P3DT Secretariat
Monitoring reports of 1997 to P3DT Secretaria   12.19.97   Monitors
Monitor ing Report to Decembetr31             012.8 PDXertra 
Susenas Surveys for 1997 project villages   2.01- 2.28.9E BPS
Susenas surveys in project villages    2.01- 2.28.9~ BPS                                                                                       N;W
Susenas, PODES reports                        04.30.99   BPS                      ,X.
Loan Closing                                     .2...9                                                                                                                                                          .0. ..
Note:  =routine activiies repeated In second year
0Q 9
0



- 33 -
Annex 4
(Page I of 8)
INDONESIA
SECOND VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN LKMD AND PIMPRO
FOR THIE VILLAGE INFRASTRUJCTnRE ASSISTANCE GRANT
TABLE OF CONTIENTS
General Conditions of Agreement ..............................................................1......
Sample Form  of Agreement ...................2.........................................................2
General Specifications ...........................................................................
(developed per nature of works in Project Manual)
1996



- 34 -
Annex 4
(Page 2 of 8)
GENERAL CONDITIONS OF IMPLEMENTATION AGREEMENT
3.1. Duties of the Field Engineer (acting for DPUK pimpro)
a) Verify subproject proposal and assist with preparation.
b) Supervise implementation of works.
c) Arrange payment documentation for work performed.
d) Accept completed works.
3.2. Duties of the LKMD
a) Implement the works in accordance with the specifications and Technical Guidelines for Works in
the Project Manual provided by the Field Engineer.
b) Provide materials, equipment and personnel; unskilled personnel will have to be village labor as per
the Manual, in accordance with the agreement and Technical Guidelines.
c) Provide local management (team leader, foreman, administration) and pay at appropriate cost based
on the agreement.
3.3. The works shall not be contracted without approval from the Field Engineer/Pimpro.
3.4. The LKMD must obey existing rules and regulations, and respect local customs.
3.5. Force Majeure is an event outside the control of the LKMD which obstructs or damages the work. Such
an event must be reported to the Field Engineer within 7 days. The Field Engineer may agree to costs
resulting therefrom, and prepare an agreement addendum if needed.
3.6. Differences of opinion that may occur between the LKMD and the Field Engineer should be brought for
discussion with the Engineer/management consultant immediately at the kecamantan. Settlement of
such differences shall be decided by the Engineer/management consultant and be based on factual
evidence and the Agreement. If they entail costs justified in the opinion of the Engineer/management
consultant due to changes of original specifications, then an Agreement addendum has to be prepared.
3.7. Non-compliance by the LKMD
The LKMD shall be judged negligent if it does not comply with clauses 3.2. or 3.4. or does not obey the
warnings of the Field Engineer. The Field Engineer shall give written notice to the LKMD of any non-
compliance and send copy to the Engineer/management consultant.
3.8.  Sanctions
a) In relation to negligence of the LKMD under clause 3.7., payments to the LKMD shall be
postponed until the cause of negligence is corrected and accepted by the Field Engineer in
accordance with the Agreement.
b) If within 15 days of receiving a warning under clause 3.7. the LKMD leader takes no corrective
action, then the Field Engineer may propose to the Pimpro to appoint an alternative leader or to
appoint a third party to carry out the works.
3.9.  Payment for the works shall be based on the amount of works certified by the Field Engineer in
accordance with the Agreement or addendum if any,
3.10. Reporting by the LKMD
a) Weekly personnel records.
b) Weekly equipment record.
c) Weekly progress of works.
d) Monthly cumulative progress.
Attachment I - Agreement Form



- 35 -
Ainnex 4
(Page 3 of 8)
LKMD:
Address:
SPABP No.:                                         Date:
IMPLEMENTATION AGREEMENT NO.
for
WORK/SUPPLIES
IN KABUPATEN                  IN KECAMATAN                   VILLAGE
No.:                            /                /199
Date:
Location:
A. We, the undersigned:
1. NAME:
TITLE:       Field Engineer Pimpro
ADDRESS:  JI.
hereinafter referred to as the FIRST PARTY.
Authorized to act on behalf of the Government Dati 11 Kabupaten as Employer, by assigmnent letter
dated:                       No.:
2. NAME:                                      (LKMD)
TITLE:                                     (kepala desa)
ADDRESS:  J1.
hereinafter referred to as the SECOND PARTY.
B. Both parties agree:
a. Type of Works:
b. Location:
c. Description:
d. Value of Agreement:  Rp.       120,000 000                                      (in words)
e. Execution period:                     calendar days from the date of signing the agreement,
without warranty period.
f.  Payment:            Initial advance of Rp.20 million. Payments every 2 weeks proportional to
physical progress as stated in bills certified by the Field Engineer and the final
hand-over.
h. Condition for
Execution:          As stated in the attached General Conditions of Agreement
i.  Miscellaneous:      - 5 copies of agreement, 2 copies with Rp. 2,000 duty stamp.
SECOND PARTY                        FIRST PARTY                        Acknowledged by
Head of LKMD                         for Pimpro                             Camat
(  _ _ _ _ )(                _ _     _    _ )                 (  _  _    _     _ )



- 36 -
Annex 4
(Page 4 of 8)
INDONESIA
SECOND VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Documentation for Procurement of Small Civil Works/Supplies
(for contract values between Rp. 10 million and Rp. 50 million)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Invitation to Bid and Instructions to Bidders ....1...........................
General Conditions of Contract ....2
Sample Form of Contract/Work Order ..............................3
Sample Form of Quotation ...............................4
General Specifications  ..................................................................................................................................
(to be developed per nature of works in forthcoming Works Project Manual)
1996



- 37 -
Annex 4
(Page 5 of 8)
1. INVITATION TO BID
1.1  Works:
1.2  Kabupaten/Kecamatan/Village:
SPABP Inpres
Date                 No.
DIPDA Inpres
Date                 No.
1.3  Appointment Procedure
Activity           Location        Date       Hour           Remark
1.3.1  Collect Bid Document    LKMD                                  Free of Charge
1.3.2  Explain Documents       idem                                  Site Visit
1.3.3  Submit Bid              idem                                  Duty Stamps
Rp.2000
1.3.4  Evaluate/Negotiate      idem
1.3.5  Appoint contractor      idem                                  Duty Stamps
1.3.6  Sign Contract           idem                                  Rp.2000
2.  INSTRUCTION TO BIDDERS
2.0  The contractor will be selected after review of 3 quotations from different sources for local
shopping and I quotation for direct contracting, contract values cannot exceed Rp. 10 million
for direct contracting and Rp. 50,000,000 for local shopping (Kepres 16/94).
2.1  Quotation Form attached.
2.3  Contract Form attached.
2.4  Attachment to the Quotation Form: Schedule of Activities and Prices
2.4  Contract Period: (3-6) months from the date of signing of Contract.
2.5  Type of Contract: Unit Price of Lump Sum, without escalation.
2.6  Payment for Achievement:
Semi-Monthly: After certification for works completed in 2 week period; the last payment,
after issuing a Certificate of Hand-over.



-38 -
Annex 4
(Page 6 of 8)
GENERAL CONDITIONS OF IMPLEMENTATION AGREEMENT
3.1.  Duties of the LKMD Head (contract/owner)/Field Engineer (acting for DPUK)
a) Supervise implementation of works.
b) Arrange payment documents for work performed.
d) Accept completed works.
3.2.  Duties of the Supplier
a) Implement the works in accordance with the specifications and Technical Guidelines for Works in
the Project Manual provided by the Field Engineer.
b) Provide materials, equipment and personnel; unskilled personnel will have to be village labor as per
the Manual, in accordance with the agreement and Technical Guidelines.
3.3. The works shall not be contracted without approval from Field Engineer.
3.4. The Supplier must obey existing rules and regulations, and respect local customs.
3.5. Force Majeure is an event outside the control of the LKMD which obstructs or damages the work. Such
an event must be reported to the Field Engineer within 7 days. The Field Engineer may agree to costs
resulting therefrom, and prepare an agreement addendum if needed.
3.6. Differences of opinion that may occur between the Supplier and the LKMD should be brought for
discussion with the Field Engineer immediately. Settlement of such differences shall be decided by the
Engineer/management consultant and be based on factual evidence and the Agreement. If they entail
costs justified in the opinion of the Field Engineer due to changes of original specifications, then a
contract addendum has to be prepared.
3.7. Non-compliance by the Supplier
The Supplier shall be judged negligent if it does not comply with clauses 3.2. or 3.4. or does not obey
the warnings of the Contract Owner or Field Engineer. The LKMD or Engineer shall give written
notice to the Supplier of any non-compliance.
3.8. Sanctions
a) In relation to negligence of the Supplier under clause 3.7., payments to the Supplier shall be
postponed until the cause of negligence is corrected and accepted by the LKMD/Field Engineer in
accordance with the Contract.
b) If within 7 days of receiving a warning under clause 3.7. the Supplier takes no corrective action, the
LKMD/Field Engineer may terminate the contract and appoint a third party to carry it out.
3.9. Payment for the works shall be based on the amount of works certified by the LKMD/Field Engineer in
accordance with the contract or addendum if any,
3.10. Reporting by the Supplier
a) Weekly personnel records.
b) Weekly equipment record.
c) Weekly progress of works.
d) Monthly cumulative progress.
Attachment I - Agreement Form
Attachment 2 - Bid Form



-39 -
(Page 7 of 8)
ArrAcHENT I
LKMD:
Address:
SPABP No.:                                        Date:
Implementation Agreement No.:                     Date:
CONTRACT AGREEMENT
for
WORK/SUPPLIES
IN KABUPATEN                 IN KECAMATAN                   VILLAGE
No.:                           /                 /199
Date:
Location:
A. We, the undersigned:
I. NAME:         ___
TITLE:      Project Manager of the Works-LKMD
ADDRESS: J1.  _-
hereinafter referred to as the FIRST PARTY.
Authorized to act on behalf of the Government Dati 11 Kabupaten as Employer, by assigmnent letter
dated:                      No.:
2. NAME:                                      (Supplier)
TITLE:                                    (Director)
ADDRESS:  JI.
hereinafter referred to as the SECOND PAR .
B. Both parties agree to enter into Contract as the result of tendering::
a. Type of Works:
b. Location:
c. Description:
d. Value of Agreement: Rp.                                                        (in words)
e. Execution period:                     calendar days from the date of signing the agreement,
without warranty period.
f.  Payment:           Up to 10% advance to be netted out of payments of the first 2 months.
Payments every 2 weeks proportional to physical progress as stated in bills
certified by the Field Engineer and the final hand-over.
h. Condition for
Execution:          As stated in the attached General Conditions of Agreement
i.  Miscellaneous:     - 5 copies of agreement, 2 copies with Rp. 2,000 duty stamp.
- Copy of contract shall be sent to Pimpro (DPUK).
SECOND PARTY                        FIRST PARTY                        Acknowledged by
Supplier                           LKMD                                Pimpro
(  _ _    _    _ )                (  _  _    _    _ )                 (  _ _     _    _ )



-40 -
Annex 4
(Page 8 of 8)
To:   The Project Manager of
QUOTATION
1.    Having examined the Quotation Documents, comprising the Invitation to Bid, the Instruction to
Bidders, the General Conditions and Technical Guidelines for Works in the Project Manual,
related to the following works:
Description   :
of           :
Works        :
I/We the undersigned offer to implement the whole of the said works in conformity with the
aforesaid documents for the sum of:
Rp
(in words)
As detailed in the Attachment to the Quotation showing schedule of Activities and Prices (form
to be developed in Manual)
2.    I/We undertake to commence the works on the date of signing the Contract and to complete and
to hand-over the works comprised in the contract within the period stated in the bid document.
3.    This Quotation is valid for one month from its date.
Date:
Supplier Name:
Address:
Supplier Signature



- 41 -
Annex 5
(Page 1 of 2)
INDONESIA
SECOND VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
GUIDELINES FOR COMPENSATION FOR LAND OR ASSET AcQuiSMTION
Objectives
1.    Land acquisition will be kept to a minimum and no person will be physically displaced under
subprojects financed under the Project. Subproject proposals that would require demolishing houses or
acquiring productive land should be carefully reviewed to their  impacts  through   altemative
alignments. Proposals that require more than minor expansion along rights of way should be reviewed
carefully. Land or other assets may be acquired through:
a)  Voluntary contributions. In accordance with traditional practices, villagers may elect to
voluntarily contribute land or assets and/or relocate temporarily or permanently from their
land without a compensation;
b)  Contributions against compensation. A contributor considered "affected" will be eLigible
for compensation from the village.
2.    These guidelines provide principles and instructions to compensate affected persons under l.(b)
above, to ensure that all such persons negatively affected, regardless of their land tenure status, will be
assisted to improve, or at least restore, their living standards, income earning or production capacity to
pre-project levels. However, if acquired assets are less dm 20%, the field engineer may dispense with
the procedural requirements delineated in para. 5 below.
Compensation Principles
3.    The LKMD shall ensure that any of the following means of compensation are timely provided to
affected persons (the village grant cannot be used to pay compensation):
a)  replacement land with an equally productive plot or other equivalent productive assets;
b)  materials and assistance to fully replace solid structures to be demolished;
c)  replacement of damaged or lost crops at market value;
d)  other acceptable in-kind compensation.
Consultation Process
4.    The LKMD will ensure that all occupants of land and owners of assets located in a proposed
subproject area, are consulted. There will be a village meeting to inform villagers about their rights to
compensation and options available in accordance with these Guidelines, The Minutes of the village
meeting shall reflect the discussions held, agreements reached, and include the following:
a)  for any voluntary contributions, name of contributor and details about the contribution;
b)  for land/asset acquisition against compensation, names of affected persons and details about
the nature and level of compensation.



-42 -
Annex 5
(Page 2 of 2)
Summary                     Amount Compensation                    Agreement reached
(1) agric. land (m2)
(2) plots:
area affected (m2)
houses/structures
to be demolished (units/Mr)
(3) trees or crops affected
(4) signatures of villagers, kepala desa
(5) record of any complaints raised by affected persons
(6) map attached (showing affected areas and replacement areas)
5.     The field engineer shall provide a copy of the Minutes to affected persons and confirm in
discussions with each of them their requests and preferences for compensation, agreements reached, and
any eventual complaint.
Subproject Approval
6.    In the event that a subproject involves acquisition against compensation, the field engineer shall:
(a) not approve the subproject unless a satisfactory compensation has been agreed between the
affected person and the LKMD, as mentioned above;
(b) not allow works to start until the compensation has been completed satisfactorily to the
affected persons;
(c) in the unlikely event that more than 200 persons were affected and required compensation
in a village, a compensation plan has to be prepared, and approved by the IDT Secretariat,
before the subproject can be approved.
Complaints and Grievances
7.     All complaints should first be negotiated to reach an agreement at the village level. If this falls,
complaints and grievances about these Guidelines, implementation of the agreements recorded in the
Village Minutes or any alleged irregularity in carrying out the project can also be addressed by the
affected persons or their representative at the kecamatan level. If this also fails, the complaint may be
submitted to the Bupati for a decision.
Verification
8.     The village Minutes and evidence of compensation having been made shall be provided to the
field engineer assisting the village, to supervising engineers, auditors and socio-economic monitorers
when undertaking reviews under the Project.



- 43 -                                              Annex 6
INDONESIA
SECOND VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Disbursement Profile of VIP2 compared to Transport, Urban, VIP1 Profiles
Quarters    Transport Profile       Urban Profile       % Disbursed        % To Be Disbursed
from Board      for Indonesia         for Indonesia      VIP 1* (Actual)        under VIP 2
% of Loan Disb'd   % of Loan Disb'd
1                                                            0                       2
2                    0                    0                 13                       5
3                    3                    3                29                        7
4                    6                    6                35                       16
5                  10                    10                                         26
6                  14                    10                                         35
7                  148                  16                                          45
8                  22                   22                                          58
9                  30                   28                                          70
10                  38                    34                                         83
11                  44                   40                                          96
12                  50                   46                                          98
13                  54                    52                                        100
100
,,                 .   ,.. ..  ... .. .   ...  . ..   .
80 
70   -:--- Transport Profile for Indonesia
..        . .     . . . . . .  ....................            . . ... .-............... .............. .._--.-...    ..-..-
60                                                                        - - -UraPrflfoInoei
'50                                                                        -4-  -       4% Disbursed VIP 1- (Actual)
40              o                             -                            X: .:: ::  - - - i - :--- % To Be Disbursed under VIP 2
30
20 -.
0  ,i       .i                     C:,   .E   .. a. ..'.' ...     ...........:
10 /
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   10  11   12   13
Quarters since Approval
* The profile for VIP 2 shows a slower start-up than VIP 1 because GOI pre-financed certain activities.



INDONEStA
SECOND VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
PROTOTYPE MONTHLY PROGRESS REPORT
Number                  I'hysical 'I'arget                           Mandays 'l'arget amid Realization                         Work Force                        P'r ogress
Kabupaten       of      Roads    Bridges  Jetties  Water Saniitary         Mlanidays Taiget             Nlandays Realized                    (Pe-sons)                           (%)
Village   (meter)  (meter)  (meter) (unit)  (unit)   Ordinary |Skied I  Leader   Ordiliaiy |Ske  |caders                             Vouth    Poor   Physical Filaici|
Pandeglang        30      89,570      239       0       24      31      151,039    6,826     3,325    101,074     5,715    3,839   4,312      935   2,357   3,560      72.1       76.2       68.6
Leba;k            45     137,865      668       0       53      40     491,056    30,573    11,204    352,709   21,994    11,180  10,966      141   4,092   7,617      82.4       80.5       72.4
Sukiabuii          5       14,540      35       0        3      14      38,332    12,284     2,381     23,786   25,031     1,787     309        3     128      187     92.3       92.3       95.5
Cianjur           10      25,793       88       0       12      38      97,973     4,472     5,166     95,202     4,413    5,303   4,713       41   1,419   3,680      97.3       96.4       97.5
Garut             10      29,410      114       0        0       0      130,964    4,595     1,648    253,483     2,249    2,073    3,717    1,195    691      851     97.1       98.5      187.9
Indramayu          5       11,645     104      15      120      22      23,364     2,224     1,182     21,026     1,994    1,063   2,292        0     767   2,314      96.1       94.9       90.0
Serang            15      53,708       51       0      67       27      70,793     7,994     1,480     75,098    8,496     1,654   5,905        0   1,982   4,470      97.3       95.9     106.2
Banjamegara       20      62,117      129       0       54      33     306,846    24,617    14,998    253,035    21,929    12,412   7,192     627   1,840   5,074      86.5       88.9       82.9
Kebumen           30     105,049     272        0        1     113     351,327    52,343    21,894    315,795    29,730    14,133   4,932    1,289   1,476   3,230     91.3       82.4      84.5
Purworejo         20      86,613      117       0      75       89     225,611    14,929     4,688    257,085    15.508    3,520   2,534    1,809   1,095   1,848      95.8      92.3      112.6
Wonosobo          10      27,028       40       0       19       2      94,101     4,145     4,565     82,153    3,419     3,910    1,471      42     754   1,320      92.1       81.5      87.0       4
Grobogan          15      61,646     228        0        1       4     163,870     8,831     7,434    149,249    7,875    6,775   2,980    1,016      712   2,568      96.5       93.5      91.0       4
Rembang            5      18,485       33       0      20       15      54,636     6,770     1,064     48,765    5,140       504     566        0     374     202      95.2       93.4      87.1       f
Pati              10      39,422      64        0       3        0      79,270     1,984     5,872    78,010     1,950     4,670    1,498     529     540   1,130      98.8      98.9       97.1
Batane            35     105,829      196       0      165      12     426,353    44,017    23,830    407,328    39,247    19,816   5,960     226   1,859   4,841      98.6       96.2       94.4
Gunungkidul       30      83,781        0       0      112       0     394,856   25,515    24,336    319,305    22,493    21,828  12,569      313   4,885  10,696      90.4       80.0       81.8
Probolinggo       10      32,600       60       0       0        5      93,984    17,477     6,255     82,066    9,331     4,067     384       14     217     398      95.0       91.6       81.1
Pasuruan          15      47,158      109       0        5       0     173,732    34,252     9,847    144,960   24,694     9,054    1,577      82     916   1,812      82.9       84.6       82.0
Nganjuk           10      39,851       41       0      21       51      84,385    13,871     4,938     57,958    7,175     1,886     307        2     164     260      68.4       63.0       64.9
Bojonegoro        20      58,424      101       0        1       0     351,539    13,619      355    318,636     8,705       313   7,541       75   3,077   4,341      95.5       80.8       89.6
BanLkalan         30      94,578       31       0        5       9     398,325     7,479    12,716    375,202    6,168    11,942   5,779      289   1,454   2,373      94.3       93.4       94.0
Sanmpang          25      59,552      510       0       53       1    353,989    38,281    29,317    339,267   36,963   27,960   2,337         26   1,132   1,703      94.7       94.4       95.9
Sumtenep          10      33,650        0       0        1       0     134,383    44,826     1,407    130,979   43,X8(2    1,310    1,630     380     256    1,146     97.6       96.0      97.5
Total         415   1,318,314   3,230       15      815     506   4,690,728  421,924   199,902  4,282,171   354,021   170,999  91,471    9,034  32,187  65,621      90.5       87.5       90.5
Source: January 1995 V[P Progress Report. The same format is available per village, and with totals per province.
_j



- 45 -
(Page 1 of 2)
INDONESIA
SECOND VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
1. Bank Supervision Input
a)  Regular supervision needs for the review  of progress reports, procurement actions,
correspondence, etc. are estimated to require four staff weeks per year. The staff input
indicated in the table overleaf is additional based on (i) the key activities mentioned in Annex 3
(Project Implementation Plan), and (ii) the assumption that a third year (1999) will be needed to
complete the monitoring and evaluation.
b)  Each of the project provinces should be visited at least once per year during project
implementation. Given the geographic dispersion of the villages, each supervision mission
would focus on a few clusters selected at random, or which would be deemed typical because of
their characteristics and their performance, as shown by the progress reports.
c)  Staff from the Resident Mission would assist in the supervision of this project, in particular
(i) in the environmental/social impact reviews and (ii) in the random ex-post review of the SOE
documentation.
2. Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
a)  A Project Launch Workshop per group of provinces is to be organized by GOI, after fill
mobilization of the EMC and the Field Engineers, and before the start of the civil works period
(May to October).
b)  The IDT Project Secretariat is responsible for project coordination, arrangements for Bank
supervision missions, and for providing requested information.
c)  Review meetings with the participation of the various project agencies will be held normally in
February of each year, to discuss the previous year's performance and the current year program.
The February 1998 will be a mid-term project implementation review.
d)  Quarterly Progress reports will report on the main inputs and outputs of the project. A sample
of the indicators to be used as part of the reporting/monitoring system are described in Annex 7.
e)  The Impact Monitoring System will report on the project's impact and development objectives.



- 46 -
Annex 8
(Page 2 of 2)
BANK SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTIVITIES
Dates                        Activity                        Skill Needs       Input
(staffweeks)
03/97      Project launch workshop                           CE, ESI             2
(to clarify project objectives/requirements)
06/97      Supervision Mission                               E, ESI              2
(to review initial project arrangements, and start-up
of first year works contracts)
09/97      Supervision Mission                               CE, E, ESI          2
(to review progress in civil works, and monitoring
activities)
12/97     Assist in/review preparation of 1998 program on    CE, E               2
the basis of experience of 1997 program
02/98      Supervision Mission                               CE, E, ESI          4
(mid-term PIR to review all aspects of the project,
especially performance of project arrangements
including for maintenance activities, quality of
consultancy services)
06/98      Supervision Mission                               CE, ESI             2
(to review progress)
09/98      Supervision Mission                               CE, E, ESI          3
(to discuss program performance including
monitoring activities)
12/98     Assist in/review preparation of last year program  CE, E, ESI          3
including impact monitoring
1999      Three Supervision Missions                         CE, E, ESI          8
(of which one for preparation of ICR)
CE = Civil Engineering, E = Economics, ESI = Environment/Social Impact (RSI)



- 47-
Annex 9
(Page I of 3)
INDONESIA
SECOND VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTuRE PROJECT
SAMPLE ECONOhlIC RETURNS TO VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE
The first year works of the Village Infrastructure   retum, the threshold traffic is only some 700 trips per year
Project for Java have been completed, and the reported    of a 7-ton truck or equivalent (some 5000 tons, or 10,000
benefits are used here as indicative of the expected results   tons both ways) during 5 years, assuming an average
under the proposed Second Village Infrastructure Project  saving of Rp.7,000 per ton. Alternatively, the road cost
recovery may be achieved in less than 3 years; just one 7-
Roads and bridges                                      ton truck replacing porters with an average savings of
About 76% of the village grant amounts was used    Rp.100,000 per ton, and making 250 trips per year, would
for road upgrading or construction, and 11% for new    in only one year ensure cost recovery; or, if just five 7-ton
bridges. The road lengths improved varied generally from    trucks or equivalent could use an improved road with an
some 1.5 km to 5 km, but occasionally were longer. With    average saving of Rp.5,000 per ton, and also made 250
87% allocated to road upgrading, this annex peruses the    trips per year each, cost recovery would take 3 years.
transportation benefits mentioned in a sample of village    Future road maintenance will be essential for the roads to
completion/benefit reports, without duplicating what is   last, and  villagers  have  agreed  to  undertake  the
included in the main text.                             maintenance; but even if roads were to last less, the
investment would still be justified. Unemployed porters
A majority of the road upgrading projects allowed    are reported to find alternative jobs without much
motorized vehicles to replace porters.  Transport cost   difficulty.  To be conservative, only a 20%  ERR is
savings per ton range from  Rp.35,000 to Rp.150,000,   reported in the main text, but there is no doubt that the
between 20% and 75% of the preproject/porter cost. Some    upgrading of village roads has favorable returns compared
projects allowed the use of larger vehicles, for instance   to higher standard and higher traffic roads.
trucks instead of cars, and others improved the road
surfaces; these projects had some 20% cost savings--less    Drinking water and sanitation
than Rp.5,000 per ton, i.e. much lower in absolute unit        Drinking water and sanitation were allocated only
terms compared to the reductions noted above, but    13% of the village grant amounts. From VIP supenision
probably such roads had larger traffic volumes (see    missions it is known that water supply improvements also
overleaf). Still, some others and especially bridge projects   have rates of return exceeding 20%, even when water is
allowed access to new markets, changing routes altogether,   purchased in bulk from a water enterprise. When needed,
with higher benefits.  Benefits from personal transport    water user groups are formed to ensure payments or
have not been reported, but these are significant as well, as    monitor water use; field engineers have to ensure a group
minibus service substitutes motorcycle "taxis" or even    is formed for subsequent maintenance of the facilities.
overnight stays outside the village, at a fraction of the cost,    Women are the main beneficiaries from  water supply
for access to schools, markets, health centers etc.    installations. Benefits from sanitation facilities are less
clear, partly because villagers may require further
The larger the population in the village, and thus    awareness campaigns and training in maintenance of the
the village production and personal transport, the larger the    installations, but this will be addressed under the project.
benefits of the road  improvement.   The products
commonly exported are rice, coconuts, coffee, fruits, fish;    Sumatra
the transport cost reduction increases farm gate prices        The above examples were derived from  Java.
considerably.   However, transport volumes are not    Benefits on Sumatra are expected to be similar, because
available to us at this time. A simulation, assuming a $1    the minimum size of villages is 700 persons, and the
per day income, that just 10%  is spent on transport   average population of eligible IDT villages is almost 3000
without the project and that the above noted saving rates    persons, as on Java, and very isolated communities would
apply with the project, and assuming that the road will last   not be assisted under the project. Whether engineering
some 6 years and including in the initial cost the    overheads will be higher because of clustering difficulties
engineering overheads, provides rates of return up to    will be reviewed at appraisal.
200%, wvith a sample median of about 50% ERR (see
overlcaf). For road works to have a minimum 10% rate of



-48 -                                                  ANzx
(Page 2 of 3)
INDONESIA
SECOND VILLAGE DIFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
REDucTIoN iN TRANSPoRT PRICES UNDER FIRST YEAR VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Comaerison of B6to. and After Transpot Pfrices on IDT Roads in W t Jtt
1.  r aeny ty   wi4Ige rn whie diret eompwison at possible (sarm nmrkl tand eommod"y}
2. oCmpa"  Om   podt prie br fir commodity lis  on ftom (sew  una of mesat.r
-- 7         Tntn po9                                                             Trenoen    nPrtr
1wm to m"ra   e beiriT    (Ro    (       s  u         P30T toad      Kmn to ma*oe  belore (P) I after (RP)  X reduccon      PSoT mad            sumrnry Statit,s
7         300           ISO         50.0         5oo      -        14          750          300          60.0         4050               -0           1
a           25           it         30.0        2U5               fa5 S0o                   350          5t63         3000
1t          200          100         50.0         3000              40          400          400           o0.         272                 0           3
25         1000          500         X0.0         4300              13        35000        35000           0.0         1550
*          350          2a0         42.3         2750             10.S          30            15         50.0         2550              1-10
la      3J700          60Ooo                      aSi448            3.         1So0         1250          16.7         1900
17.5       15000        200           (33.3         2000               4          400          100         75.0          2750              11-21       10
I14           70           to          14,3         3000               a           35           25         2e,6         252t
7           IS           10         33.3         4125               4         1000         So           50,0         2400              21-30        11
11           70           e0         14.3         402A              a5         1000          S00          50.0         2e00
IS           *0           70         125          4450               3          500          250          50.0         3000             31-40         10
eso                     S0          16.7        4100               S         t00           SW0          50,0         2750
*           30            o0        et.7         3e11               5         toOo          500          50,0         3000              41-50        1S
7           S0           30         40,0          10S0              e           2S            15         40,0         3165
10          250          100         50.0         3300               5           25            10         6o0.         3568              51-80  0    10
7           35            7         t0,0         3750              4,5          25           10          60.0         1524
*           2U            5         50.          425                4           25           10          60,0         2500              61-70         1
to           20           is         25.0         3100              3,5          25           10          50,0         2275
la           20           15         25.0         3035               5           so           40          33.3         la00              71-e0         a
3           2t           1S         40,0         2000               7           70           So          2eMe         1125
4           30           20         33,3         3390              10           70           So          2e8,5        3000                          70
20         I00          2500         50,0         4300               5            10           7          30.0         1700
3           7n           25         64.7         1700              12          110           e0          27.3         1200
3           7S           25          66,7        3650              10         10.75         6.25         66.7         4550
3           7S           25         66.7         3650               2          100           25          75,0         10oo
3.5          so            25        5a63          3740               2          150           50         66.7         1875
1l           7S           S0         33.3         1250              2.5          50           25          5a.3        3640
2e          100           75         25,0         3100               7          100           35          65.0         6000
2.s           1S0          50          66,7         2S50               3           75           25         66,7          170
2e          150          100         333          1o50               3           75           25          66,7         3850
20          100           50         50.0         2250               3           75           25          66,7         3605
4.5       20000        1S000          25.0         low                7          125          125           0.0        3000
SA63N           S0           30         40.0          65                3           S0           25          50.0         3000
5.165           S0           25         50.0         5165               4          100           25          75.0         3250
SO        SOC0O        40000         20,          2255               3           125          25          80.0         3000
35        75000        550           28.7         2040               a           30            Is         50.0         3000
250       275000       250000           e,1         3100              12          25           20          20.0         2140
12.5         500          400          20.0         2510               5           I5           10         33,3         4200
tO         4C0           350         12.5         1710              13        20000         5w00          25.0        3500
20                                                       ...
: 15
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
10
s0
<0            0          1 -10   11-21  21-30  31-40  41-50  51-60  61-70  71-80
PerCent RedUCtiOn in PriCe
I.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,



Kabupaten  Cist Kecamatan   Desa            Pop  Disp Income (a)  Transp Expen (b)  % of Savings (c) Transp Exp Savings Project Costs (d)    NPV (e)   IRR
(Rp million/year)  (Rp million/year)  in Transp Expen   (Rp million/year)    (Rp million)   (Rp million
Pandeglang  2  Munjul        Pasir Durung   1,690     1,419             142             20%            28.4               132               -7.7        8%
Munjul       Sindang Resm  1,647      1,383             138             25%            34.6               132               16.9       15%
Munjul       Kadu Malali   1,717      1,441             144             20%            28.8               132               -5.9        B%
Pagelaran    Turns         3.880      3.257             326             19%            61.9               132              125.0      41%
Munjul       PasirLancar   2,085      1,750             175             25%            43.8               132               53.3       24%
Lebak       7  Cibadak      Cisangu         1437      1.206             121             43%            51.9               131               86.3       32%
Cibadak     Asem            3927      3,297             330             50%           164.8               132              532.6      124%     CA
Cibadak      Malabar        2474      2.077             208             50%           103.8               131              292.1       77%
Cibadak      Bojongsae      2165       1,818            182             60%            109.1              131              312.7       81%      O
RangkasbHtun Kolelet Wetan   2583     2.168             217             50%           108.4               132              309.3       80%
8  Maja         Mayak          1730       1,452            145              33%            47.9              132               69.8       28%
Mala         Curug Bitung    2430     2,040             204             60%            122.4              132              364.6       91%
Maja         Sekarwangl    2329        1.955            196              50%           97.8               132              267.1       71%
Maja         CRayang        2407      2,021             202              50%           101.0              132              280.0       74%
Maja         Ciburuy        3182      2,671             267             37%            98.8               132              271.3       72%
Garut       2  Singajaya    Sukamulaya    3616        3.036             304             67%           203.4               132              685.3      154%
Banjarwangl  Talagasari     3140      2.636             264             65%           171.3               132              558.4      129%         C)  4-
Banjarwangl  Padahurip      4544      3,815             381             67%           255.6               132              891.9      193%           'I
Singajaya    Glrimukli      3107      2.608             261             58%            151.3              132              479.0      113%       n U
Singajaya    Jayamukli      3761      3,157             316             67%           211.5               132              717.6      160%
Indramayu    1  Sindang      Canigl Wetan   3451      2.897             290             20%            57.9               132              109.4       37%      (
Sindang      Cantlgi Kulon   3155     2,649             265             27%            71.5               132              163.1       49%      H
Sindang      Cangkring      2287       1,920            192              9%             17.3              132              -51.6       -6%
Lohbener    Cidempet        2599      2.182             218              13%           28.4               132               -7.7        8%
Lohbener    Tawangsarl    1483        1.245             124             20%            24.9               132              -21.41       4%
Note:                                                                                                                                                           o
(a) disposable Income per person per day:  2.300 Rp/cap/day                                                                                                     M
(b) % of disposable Income on transport     10%
(c) from transport prkce reductions survey: first commodity listed on the survey.
(d) village grant of Rpl20 million and 10% overheads.
(e) evailuation period of 6 years, NPV @ 10%.
wI



- 50 -
Annex 10
INDONESIA
SECOND VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.    Supervision and progress reports
2.    CARE draft report for the 1995/96 village works, April 1996
3     HASFARM's review of conditions in Sumatra, August 1996



-'                      .s     PHILIPPINES
\fQR               PACIFIC OCEAN                                                  INDONESIA-JAWA
M A L A Y S I A 
r~ M0A L A YsS 1 A_.tSECOND VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
%^SINGAPORE '
KAIIATNSULAWESI    SERAM                                                          PROJECT KABUPATENS
UR14h Z
I- q-                       ~~~~~~~~~~JAYA ~
r   Jto         I N  D  0  N  E S I                                                     250  NUMBER OF PROJECT VILLAGES IN PROVINCE
AREA OF MAP   JAWA         FLORES                                                                   (    PROVINCE (PROPINSI) CAPITALS
INDIAN OCEAN         TAlMO                                                                               NATIONALCAPITAL
AUSTRALIA_________________________________________________________________  DISTRICT (KABUPATEN) BOUNDARIES
105         106               107              I08-    PROVINCE (PROPINSI) BOUNDARIES
SUMATERA
I           ~       ~I       I                I
D.K.I.                                  Ilw               110              II;"             1 12            1 13'             1 14'
JAKARTA
fl, -mp M-prrmed he Motp Dommgn Unit ol Tho W0,d &mk
20\JAKAI4JP                                                                                         Th, b-od-rem olr, dnni-mnti-n -rd my ote ihmmo
2 0       cj                                            | 18                                               hoo on hi mM t, .p do ,ro repiy, on d6 por f The World 8m-k
J a v a      S e a                                        endoenlor,cpO  ofrkf or tan
1   ,          - 2        16'                            JAWA TENGAH   20                                       JAWA TIMUR
&   '    ~''   t4-   '<-  13   12>     6509  I918    17                                     490
5  Biudn4ja        -Seurn   2123Mro
74 6,                                                         '              28 271 2625'245 '                    16       23        '            - 262 r  d29         7-
JAWA BARAT                                                     9 6  ,1                                   1628                     26   27-24  28,
L   360                                    8   Th98                         23 -~. 27       14, 22                7 16: t5SurE
-   )'q                      -~~~~    1- .30.1
KABUPATENS                                                                               -     y2kart         2      ,                      13
(D.I. YOGYAKARTA)                          I NDAN                     CE A N               OD..             1                                8 I I
1. Kulon Progo                        0      50    loo    IS                YOGYAKARTA ARTA                                                              10
2. Bantul                                     WLOMEERS  
3. Gunung Kidul                 107           LOMBE IER                           110            111'              112"            113             114"
4. Sleman                    I_I                  I                I I                               I               I                I                I
KABUPATENS (JAWA BARAT)                            KABUPATENS (JAWA TENGAH)                                       KABUPATENS (JAWA TIMUR)
1. Pandeglang         11. Cirebon             1. Cilacap         11. Sukohario       21. Demak             1. Pacitan         11. Bondowoso       21. Ngawi
2. Lebak              1 2. Maialenka          2. Banyumas        12. Wonogiri         22. Semaranig        2. Ponorogo        1 2. Situbondo      22. Bojonegoro
3. Bogor              13. Sumedang            3. Purbalingga     13. Karanganyar      23. Teman gung       3. Trenggalek      13. Probolinggo     23. Tuban
4. Sukabumi           14. Indramayu           4. Baniarnegara    14. Sragen          24. Kendal            4. Tulungagung    14. Pasuruan         24. Lamongan
5. Cianjur            15. Subana              5. Kebumen         15. Grobogan         25. Batang           5. Blitar          15. Sidoario        25. Gresik
6. Bandung            16. Purwa2arta          6. Purworejo       16. Blora            26. Pekalongan       6. Kediri          16. Mojokerto       26. Bangkolan
7. Garut              1 7. Karawang           7. Wonosobo        17. Rembang          27. Pemalang         7. Malang          17. Jombang         27. Sampang
8. Tasikmalaya        18. Bekasi              8. Magelang        18. Pati             28. Tegal            8. Lumaljang       18. Nganjuk         28. Pamekasan
9. Ciamis             19. Tangerang           9. Boyolali        19. Kudus            29. Brebes           9. Jember          19. Madiun          29. Sumenep
10. Kuningan           20. Serang             10. Klaten          20. Jepara                               10. Banyuwangi    20. Magetan           30. Kodya Surabaya    <
_0                                                                                                                                                                               oc
90                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o






-,0r ,THAILAND                             10Sn       INDONESIA-SUMATERA
SECOND VILLAGE
Banda Aceh                                                                        INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT                                     KABUPATENS
-5c2 ,                                                                                   PROJECT KABUPATENS                       5--  (SUMATERA BARAT)
4 7' 3g                                                                                                                          1 .Pesisir Seltan
5    )              '>            M A L A Y S I A                        250   NUMBER OF PROJECT VILLAGES IN PROVINCE             2. Solok
(' '>   7 t    Mda  sM                             ouh   hia          (3   PROVINCE (PROPINSI) CAPITALS                      3. Sawah tunto
South  China                                                                4. Tanah Datar
D.I. ACEH         ,  )1'               -'                               Sea                   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                 5. Padang Pariaman
1 50           C'__         7/S 6                                                         DISTRICT (KABUPATEN) BOUNDARIES                   6 Agami
PROVINCE (PROPINSI) BOUNDARIES                   8. Pasaman
~ 4                 jS, |RIAU                       -   -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
\ 3                        40 '                                                    _0                                 KABUPATENS
1        ~       ~~2    .        ~         .00.C,0SNGAPORE                                KABUPATENS                        (IU
I                                                                                           I .A  3  ndragiri Hulu
SUMATERA                             Pekanbaru".X                  3                                            B(D PI. ACEH)              2. Indragiri Hilir
UTARA                         1                                                .                           1 Aceh Selatan                3. Kepulauan Riau
250                         -   >2                                                                       2. Aceh Tenggara             4 Kampar
i5>L        1               1                                          3. Aceh Timur                5. Bengkalis
- 5s.7 ._  M5 4. Aceh Tengah                                                                         KABUPATENS
Podang_   6        2                  JAMBI                                  6. Aceh Besar                    (JAMBI)
8                                                                      Ace-  Uta4 ra 40  SUMATERA  7 Pde   1 Kerinci
SUMATERA                        1      3                               SELATAN                                               2. Bungo Tebo
BARAT                                     .    I 7                      190                KABUPATENS                     3. Sarko
6                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 .Tanjung Jabung
INDIAN         ~240                           2s  6                                           8aeblgL   (SUMATERA UTARA)                4.. B atjung Jabng
INDIAN OCEAN                                            ' x                     2                               1. Nias
4 K '3}   5   '2~                         2 Tapanuli Selatan             KABUPATENS
Bengkulu 1                                                      3. Tapnauli Tengah      (SUMATERA  SELATAN)
BENGKULU                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4. Tapanuli Utara
0  100 200 300 400 500                40                                 2   LAMPUNG                     6. Asahan                      1. Ogan Komering Ulu
5                KILOMETERS                                             4    ,,   2         190                   7. Simalungun                  3. Muara Enim
1 (SndarLampung                    8. Dairi                       4. Lahat
100I                                                                         9. Karo                        5. Musi Rawas
.  PHILIPPINES                                                             1 0. Deli Serdang               6. Musi Banyu Asin
BRUNEI           PINSJAKARTA                                                              1 1. Langkat                    7. Bangka
M A L A Y S I A                    PACIFIC OCEAN                                                                                      8. Belitung
'-,  SINt APORE -                                                              ( LAMPUNG)             ~KABUPATENS
SINCAPOREL 
&ALWANFAN                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KA BU PATEN S
SULAWESI    SFRAM                                                                                               (BENGKULU)
IRIAN jz    h  v    c             U- o si eL W    n      1 Lampung Selatan
Jav    Se                              JAYA~ 
+ tAREA OF MAP :+nknrlc I N  D  O  N  E SI                                                       2. Lampung Tengah               1 . Bengkulu Selataiw
C AREA.  M      JA,k/4       FLO0ES           S I                  Thebdmeklon  ovo  onnyol'n                   3 Lampung Utra                 2. Re ang Lebong
BAH                                   .... ~~~~~~~~pt- f,.,b-vrdo-ve3 Ben g ufu Utnira
INDIAN OCEAN          BAII                                            IIMOR                                      Lampung Barata
AUSTRALIA                 105                         _      _      _      _      _









IMAGING
Report No:        15467 IND
Type: SAP



