Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                   LOAN NUMBER 4100 IND
                              Loan Agreement
                  (Second Village Infrastructure Project)
                                  between
                           REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated January 15, 1997
                                                    LOAN NUNMBER 4100 IND
                             LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated January 15, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project; and
     WHEREAS (B) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms wherever used in
this Agreement have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Affected Person" means a person who, on account of the
execution of Part A of the Project, has or would have his or her:
Page  2
(i) standard of living adversely affected; (ii) right, title or
interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and
grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or
possessed, temporarily or permanently, adversely affected; or (iii)
business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely
affected;
     (b)  "BAPPEDAs I" and "BAPPEDAs II" mean the development planning
agencies of the Borrower at the provincial and Kabupaten levels,
respectively;
     (c)  "BAPPENAS" means the National Development Planning Agency of
the Borrower and includes any successor thereto;
     (d)  "Bupati" means the Head of a Kabupaten;
     (e)  "Camat" means the Head of a Kecamatan;
     (f)  "DPUK" and "DPUKs" mean singularly the Office of Public Works
of a Kabupaten and collectively the Offices of Public Works of
Kabupatens;
     (g)  "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing
April 1 and ending March 31;
     (h)  "Grant" and "Grants" mean singularly a grant and collectively
grants to be made available by the Borrower to the Project Villages out
of its own resources and the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement;
     (i)  "Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement" means the
framework prepared by the Borrower, in agreement with the Bank, for
the provision of compensation to Affected Persons as set forth in
Part C of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and in the Project Manual,
and as such Guidelines may be amended from time to time in agreement
with the Bank;
     (j)  "IDT Program" means Inpres Desa Tertinggal Program, a program
of the Borrower for poverty reduction programs;
     (k)  "Kabupaten" means a district, an administrative division of
the Borrower;
     (l)  "Kecamatan" means an administrative sub-district of a Kabupaten;
     (m)  "Kepala Desa" means the Head of a village;
     (n)  "Kerinci-Seblat Integrated Conservation and Development Project"
means the project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement No. 4008-
IND (Kerinci-Seblat Integrated Conservation and Development Project)
between the Borrower and the Bank, dated June 17, 1996;
     (o)  "LKMD" means a Project Village community resilience council
headed by the Kepala Desa;
     (p)  "Non-IDT Village" means a village which is listed in the
provincial bottom fifty percent of the Borrower's Potensi Desa
classification;
     (q)  "OECF" means the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan;
     (r)  "P3DT" means the Pembangunan Prasarana Pendukung Desa
Tertinggal, the Project Management Unit established and operating
within BAPPENAS pursuant to Ministerial Decree (Kepmen) No.
008/KET/2/1995, dated February 20, 1995, comprising representatives
of, inter alia, the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, Ministry of
Home Affairs and Ministry of Public Works;
     (s)  "Pimpro" means a Project manager in a Kabupaten;
     (t)  "Project Manual" means the manual prepared by the Borrower,
in consultation with the Bank, dated September 1996, to assist the
Page  3
Project Villages in the implementation of the Project through the
description of, inter alia, procurement procedures and standard
documentation, reporting requirements, the Project Performance
Indicators, Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement, environ-
mental criteria applicable to Sub-project design, maintenance pro-
visions for works to be carried out under the Project and criteria
for the selection of Sub-projects, as such Project Manual may be
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank;
     (u)  "Project Performance Indicators" means those indicators
agreed with the Bank and designed to measure the Borrower's performance
in achieving Project objectives;
     (v)  "Project Provinces" means the Borrower's provinces of Jawa
Barat, Jawa Tengah, Jawa Timur, Lampung, Bengkulu, Sumatera Selatan,
Jambi, Riau, Sumatera Barat, Sumatera Utara, and D. I. Aceh;
     (w)  "Project Village" and "Project Villages" mean singularly a
village, and collectively the villages selected by the Borrower for
participation in the Project in accordance with Part A.1 of Schedule
5 to this Agreement;
     (x)  "Rupiah" or "Rp" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (y)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (z)  "Sub-projects" means the specific public infrastructure
investment projects to be carried out under Part A of the Project,
and "Sub-project" means any one of the Sub-projects; and
     (aa) "Village Infrastructure Project for Java" means the project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement No. 3888-IND (Village
Infrastructure Project for Java), between the Borrower and the Bank
dated June 29,1995.
                                  ARTICLE II
                                  The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount
equal to one hundred forty million one hundred thousand dollars
($140,100,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or in
a state commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, including, in the case of a state commercial bank, appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total
Spread.
Page  4
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
               including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding,
               the first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter,
               and after the initial period, each period from and
               including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding
               the next following Interest Payment Date.
         (ii)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
        (iii)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the
               London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in
               dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period
               (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for
               value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next
               preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as
               reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
               percentage per annum.
         (iv)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:
               (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or
               plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest
               Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered
               rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits,
               in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or
               portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single
               currency loans or portions thereof made by it that
               include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank
               and expressed as a percentage per annum.
     (c)  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and
LIBOR Total Spread for Interest Period, promptly upon the determination
thereof.
     (d)  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section
2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers
as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the
interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice
to the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on
the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank
during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said
modification shall not apply to the Loan.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable on June
15 and December 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
                              ARTICLE III
                       Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
engineering, environmental, financial and socialpractices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Borrower shall take all necessary measures to:
          (i)  ensure that the financing of the Project from its own
Page  5
               resources is maintained during the implementation of
               the Project at such levels as agreed between the
               Borrower and the Bank, such level to be at least equal
               to twenty million Rupiah (Rp. 20,000,000) per Project
               Village to be made available to each Project Village
               as an initial advance not later than April 30, 1997
               and April 30, 1998; and
         (ii)  make available an amount up to one hundred and twenty
               million Rupiah (Rp. 120,000,000) to each Project Village
               on a grant basis for the financing of Sub-projects.
     (c)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued
achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
                              ARTICLE IV
                          Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six months after the end of each
               such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
Page  6
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made,
               all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
               receipts and other documents) evidencing such expendi-
               tures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                                Termination
     Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          c/o Directorate General of Budget
          Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
          P. O. Box 1139
          Jakarta 10710
          Indonesia
          Cable address:                Telex:
               FINMINISTRY              45799 DJMLN-IA
               Jakarta                  44319 DEPKEU-IA
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                248423 (MCI)
               Washington, D.C.          64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
Page  7
               By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar
                                                Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ Marianne Haug
                                          Acting Regional Vice President
                                                   East Asia and Pacific
                                SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated          % of
                          (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category                 Dollars)       to be Financed
(1)  Goods, works           117,000,000      90%
     and services
     under Grants
(2)  Consultants'            20,800,000      100%
     services
(3)  Unallocated              2,300,000
                            ___________
          TOTAL             140,100,000
                            ===========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "goods, works and
services under Grants" means expenditures incurred by the Project
Villages in the carrying out of approved Sub-projects.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(i) goods, works and services under Grants, except for the first
contract in each Kabupaten for civil works and goods valued at
$10,000 or more; and (ii) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms valued at less than $100,000 equivalent each and contracts for
the employment of individuals valued at less than $50,000 equivalent
each; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.
                               SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in the
implementation in the Project Provinces of a program aimed at improving
the access to public infrastructure in selected Project Villages.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  8
Part A:   Construction of Public Works
     Carrying out of public infrastructure investment projects in about
2600 Project Villages in the Project Provinces.
Part B:   Strengthening Project Implementation Capabilities
1.   Strengthening the implementation and administration capabilities of
the Project Villages to design, procure and construct public works and
ensure the quality and sustainability of such works, through the pro-
vision of technical assistance.
2.   Strengthening the management, supervision, and socio-economic
monitoring and evaluation capabilities of the Project Management Unit
through the provision of technical assistance.
                                  * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                         Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (Expressed in dollars)*
June 15, 2002                                2,985,000
December 15, 2002                            3,070,000
June 15, 2003                                3,160,000
December 15, 2003                            3,250,000
June 15, 2004                                3,345,000
December 15, 2004                            3,445,000
June 15, 2005                                3,545,000
December 15, 2005                            3,650,000
June 15, 2006                                3,755,000
December 15, 2006                            3,865,000
June 15, 2007                                3,980,000
December 15, 2007                            4,095,000
June 15, 2008                                4,215,000
December 15, 2008                            4,335,000
June 15, 2009                                4,465,000
December 15, 2009                            4,595,000
June 15, 2010                                4,730,000
December 15, 2010                            4,865,000
June 15, 2011                                5,010,000
December 15, 2011                            5,155,000
June 15, 2012                                5,305,000
December 15, 2012                            5,460,000
June 15, 2013                                5,620,000
December 15, 2013                            5,785,000
June 15, 2014                                5,950,000
December 15, 2014                            6,125,000
June 15, 2015                                6,305,000
December 15, 2015                            6,490,000
June 15, 2016                                6,680,000
December 15, 2016                            6,865,000
__________________________
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
     as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions,
     Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                               SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
Page  9
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:   Procurement Procedures
1.   National Shopping
     Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.   Community Participation
     Except as provided in paragraph 3 below, civil works shall be
procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank, as set
out in the Project Manual.
3.   Procurement of Small Works
     Civil works may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement
acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources
to complete the contract successfully.
Part C:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to the first contract in each Kabupaten for civil works
and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guide-
lines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract referred to in Part B above, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
Page  10
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not
apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source
selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment
of individuals raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
Part A:   Implementation Actions
      Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall select Project Villages and Sub-projects in accordance
with the following provisions.
1.   Selection of Project Villages
     The Borrower shall select a Project Village on the basis of the
following criteria and procedures:
     (a)  Criteria:
          (i)  the village is located in a Project Province;
         (ii)  the village has been included in the Borrower's IDT
               Program, or the village is a Non-IDT Village in a
               cluster of IDT villages and requires village in-
               frastructure;
        (iii)  the village has at least 700 inhabitants or, in areas
               having only smaller villages, two or three close-by
               villages with a total number of inhabitants of at least
               700 to be considered as one Project Village;
         (iv)  the village has not been selected to participate under
               the Village Infrastructure Project for Java, the
               Kerinci-Seblat Integrated Conservation and Development
               Project, or a similar infrastructure project financed
               by OECF;
          (v)  priority shall be given to non-transmigration villages;
               and
         (vi)  selected villages shall be located in clusters.
     (b)  Procedures:
          (i)  Camats, in consultation with the Bupatis, shall select
               the Project Villages taking into account the criteria
               described under paragraph (a) above;
         (ii)  BAPPEDAs II shall consolidate the lists of proposed
               Project Villages to be included in Fiscal Year 1998/1999
               prepared by the Camats, and BAPPEDAs I shall consolidate
               the BAPPEDAs II lists and, thereafter, furnish the
               consolidated list to P3DT and the Bank for approval, by
               not later than September 1, 1997; and
        (iii)  Bupatis and Camats shall issue to the Project Villages,
               by not later than December 31, 1996, for Fiscal Year
               1997/1989 and December 31, 1997, for Fiscal Year 1998/
               1999, public information aimed at disclosing to villagers
               and their representatives, all administrative, financial,
               environmental, procedural and technical aspects pertain-
Page  11
               ing to the selection, design, preparation and implemen-
               tation of Sub-projects.
2.   Selection and Implementation of Sub-projects
     (a)  A Sub-project selected by a Project Village shall qualify as
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan only if:
          (i)  the Sub-project is a public infrastructure investment
               project and is technically and environmentally viable,
               and economically justified by the number of bene-
               ficiaries;
         (ii)  the Sub-project proposal has been publicly discussed
               among, and agreed to by, the villagers in the Project
               Village under the coordination of the Kepala Desa
               and LKMD; and
        (iii)  the Sub-project proposal has been furnished to the
               respective Camat for review and comments.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, through the relevant Pimpro, ensure that,
prior to the carrying out of works under a Sub-project, the field
engineer shall have completed a technical review of such Sub-project
and shall have confirmed the following:
          (i)  all selection criteria described under paragraph 2 (a)
               above have been complied with;
         (ii)  all necessary measures have been taken to avoid or
               minimize land acquisition and displacement of Affected
               Persons under the proposed Sub-project in accordance
               with the provisions of the Project Manual;
        (iii)  necessary funding to fully finance the proposed Sub-
               project has been obtained, including a Grant and any
               voluntary contributions to be made by the respective
               Project Village;
         (iv)  appropriate engineering and environmental standards and
               practices that would minimize any acquisition of land
               and avoid involuntary resettlement of Affected Persons
               have been considered to design the Sub-project;
          (v)  the Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement have
               been complied with, and, if applicable, appropriate
               compensation arrangements have been completed and are
               satisfactory to the Affected Persons as set forth
               under such Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement
               and Part C of this Schedule;
         (vi)  contracts for the procurement of civil works and goods,
               in accordance with the provisions of Part B of Section
               I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been entered into
               in accordance with the provisions of the Project Manual;
        (vii)  an implementation plan for the Sub-project has been
               prepared in accordance with the provisions of the
               Project Manual; and
       (viii)  a maintenance program for the works to be carried out
               under the Sub-project has been prepared in accordance
               with terms acceptable to the Bank, which shall include
               assignment of maintenance responsibilities in the
               respective Project Village, the preparation of training
               programs to strengthen the maintenance capabilities of
               the Project Village, and the identification of available
               sources of financing to carry out such programs.
     (c)  The Borrower shall cause the Project Villages to carry out the
Sub-projects confirmed in accordance with paragraph (b) above for the
respective Fiscal Year, in accordance with a timetable and guidelines
Page  12
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank and described in the Project
Manual.
3.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the
General Conditions, the Borrower shall cause P3DT to prepare, and
furnish to the Bank for review, the following reports concerning Part
A of the Project:
     (a)  starting  March 31, 1997, and until the completion of the
Project, quarterly progress reports; and
     (b)  annual progress reports by March 31, 1998 and March 31, 1999.
4.   The Borrower shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the
indicators agreed with the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and
the achievement of the objectives thereof;
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank on or about January 31, 1998, a report inte-
grating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement
of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
     (c)  review with the Bank, by February 28, 1998, or such later
date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph
(b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations
of the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
5.   The Borrower shall:
     (a)  carry out by September 30 in each year, commencing September
30, 1998, and until completion of the Project, annual technical audits
for Project quality assurance, in a manner acceptable to the Bank,
including quality of civil works, performance of consultants, pro-
curement of goods, and completion of Sub-projects; and
     (b)  promptly upon completion of said audits, furnish to the
Bank the recommendations of said audits.
Part B:   Agencies and Institutions Responsible for Project
          Implementation
1.   BAPPENAS, through P3DT, shall be responsible for the overall
coordination of the Project.
2.   P3DT shall be maintained throughout Project implementation with
competent staff in adequate numbers, as agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank.
3.   BAPPEDAs (Level I) shall appoint, and, thereafter, maintain until
completion of the Project, qualified counterpart staff to work closely
with the senior engineering staff employed under the Project.
4.   BAPPEDAs (Level II) shall be responsible in each Kabupaten for the
coordination of all Project related activities with other relevant
agencies and departments of the Borrower.
5.   DPUK shall be the implementing agency at the Kabupaten level.
6.   The Borrower shall, by not later than April 1 in each Fiscal Year,
cause the DPUKs overseeing Project Villages to select and employ, and,
thereafter, maintain until the completion of the Project, qualified and
experienced Pimpros, in adequate numbers.  The Pimpros shall be
responsible for assisting the DPUK in the record keeping of expenditures
Page  13
incurred by the Borrower during the implementation of the Project.
7.   The LKMD in each Project Village shall be responsible for the
implementation of Sub-projects approved for such Project Village.
8.   The Borrower shall ensure, throughout Project implementation:
     (a)  that the Project Manual is made available to Project Villages;
and
     (b)  that such Project Manual is periodically updated, if needed,
in consultation with the Bank.
Part C:   Compensation for Affected Persons
     In carrying out Part A of the Project:
     (a)  the Borrower shall take measures to avoid or minimize the
acquisition of land or assets of villagers and to avoid the displace-
ment of said villagers;
     (b)  where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement
of villagers is unavoidable under a proposed Sub-project, the Borrower
shall, before carrying out the works which would result in such
acquisition or displacement, make available to such villagers, com-
pensation in accordance with the Guidelines for Compensation and
Resettlement agreed between the Borrower and the Bank; and
     (c)  in the event that two hundred or more villagers are adversely
affected by a Sub-Project, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  prepare a resettlement plan in accordance with the
               Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement and
               furnish such plan to the Bank for approval; and
         (ii)  prior to the carrying out of the Sub-project, ensure
               that all Affected Persons shall have been compensated
               in accordance with the provisions of said plan.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                             Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time
to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $14,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$7,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $28,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
Page  14
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the  Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
               specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
               All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
               the Loan Account under the respective eligible
               Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
               as shall have been justified by said documents and
               other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-drawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
Page  15
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
