Report No. PID10302
Project Name                     East Timor-TP-Fundamental School ... @
Quality Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           EY - Other Education
Project ID                       TPPE72647
Borrower(s)                      East Timor
Implementing Agency
UNTAET (UN Transitional Administration In
East Timor)
Address: United Nations Transitional
Administration in East Timor - UNTAET
Rua dos Direitos Humanos
Dili, East Timor
Contact Person: Mr. Francisco J. Osler
de Almeida
Head Division of Education, Culture, Yourth &
Sports Department of Social Services - UNTAET
Tel: 61 418 802 316
Fax: 61 889 422 198
Email:et-education@un.org
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                May 2, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         May 18, 2001
Projected Board Date             September 28, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
The first education project financed by the Trust Fund for East Timor
(TFET) the Emergency School Readiness Project (ESRP) ongoing since June
2000, rehabilitates school buildings, provides textbooks, teaching
materials, furniture and school equipment, and supports community
participation. At the end of October 2001, some 2,630 classrooms have been
rehabilitated (125w of target), and the target numbers for furniture and
textbooks have been achieved. Enrollment in the school year 2000/01 has
reached the pre-1999 level in primary education (grades 1-6) but still
below that level in junior secondary education (grades 7-9) and in senior
secondary education (grades 10-12). This calls for the continuing support
from TFET through a second-phase project.
2. Objectives
The Fundamental School Quality Project as the second phase of TFET
continues to focus on basic education, with attention to junior secondary
education. The specific development objectives of this follow-on project
are the following: (i) to support the Government to maintain the existing
level of primary education enrollment (185,000 students, around 95t of the
age group) and to restore junior secondary enrollment to the pre-1999
level (30,000 students, around 60t of the age group), with the possibility



of increase due to return of refugees and growth of school-age population;
and (ii) to continue to recover quality of primary and junior secondary
education by rehabilitating physical facilities and by providing textbooks
and instructional materials.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has become a credible leader in the donor community, entrusted
with managing TFET donor resources and in coordinating assistance to the
education sector. The Bank will also undertake basic sector work in FY02,
with emphasis on financing issues and options, to enhance policy
assistance to the incoming government of the newly independent state.
4. Description
Component 1 (Part A in the Grant Agreement), Rebuilding school physical
infrastructure, includes: (i) construction of about five escolas basicas,
integrated primary and junior secondary schools, at the district level;
(ii) upgrading of about nine selected primary or junior secondary schools
to the standard of escola basica; and (iii) upgrading of about 65 selected
primary schools to fundamental quality standard. The schools will be
provided with furniture, water supply, and toilets.Component 2 (Part B),
Providing teaching-learning materials, includes the acquisition and
distribution to primary and junior secondary schools of textbooks,
workbooks, and teachers guides for language learning, learning kits in
science and mathematics, and other instructional materials and minor
equipment, including typewriters, computers and peripheral equipment,
software and media.Component 3 (Part C), Social mobilization and
communications, includes production and dissemination of promotional
materials, delivery of social messages, development and carrying out of
training programs, information campaigns, and monitoring,
feedback-gathering, and evaluation.Component 4 (Part D), Support for
policy development, includes technical and empirical studies on education
issues and policy options, and data management and dissemination of
knowledge regarding the development of the education sector.Component 5
(Part E), Management and implementation support, includes support to
management, operational, and administrative activities of the Project
Management Unit.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 13.9
6. Implementation
The Project Management Unit (PMU) of the Division of Education, Culture,
Youth & Sports (DECYS) of UNTAET will continue to serve as the principal
implementing agency for the project. PMU will be responsible for overall
project administration and coordination, implementation, and quality
control, including the administration of project funds, project
procurement, and technical coordination on education with other units of
DECYS and with the district offices. The PMU will provide school
furniture, textbooks, and other teaching-learning materials and will be
responsible for construction. The PMU will also continue to implement the
social mobilization campaigns and contract policy development studies with
qualified individuals and groups.
7. Sustainability
-2-



Through the project's social mobilization and communications activities,
consultations with the community and engagement of nongovernmental
organizations (NGOs) as partners of the project on matters of school
security and preventive maintenance will increase the likelihood, but will
not guarantee, that the physical assets the project will be sustained over
the long term. With communities still re-forming, and the nation in the
process of political transition to an independent state, the chances of
sustaining anything but the physical contributions of the project are low.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Effectiveness delays plagued the start-up of ESRP. This follow-on project
requires that: (i) key project managers - project director, project
manager, chief architect, head of procurement, and head of financial
management - are appointed on full-time basis; (ii) land documentation for
construction sites is obtained before Grant effectiveness.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The World Bank's review of the environmental impact
of this follow-on project required that: (i) the extent of school building
demolition that would be undertaken in the project should be clarified and
measures be adopted for the safe handling and disposal of hazardous
demolition materials, including asbestos; and, as the project includes the
provision of school toilets, and (ii) measures be adopted to mitigate the
potential harmful impacts of sewage disposal on the environment. During
project preparation, an action framework for the safe handling of
demolition materials and toilet sewage was developed and agreed.
Implementing the mitigation measures would be the responsibility
governmental units in collaboration with the school community and other
groups in civil society, including NGOs
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Alfonso F. de Guzman
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-2527
Fax: 202-522-7108
12.  For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 3 -



This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending December 7,2001
- 4 -



