RESTRICTED
Report No. PU-100
~~V6-1'64~o S
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be pubLished, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
THE MEDIUM SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECTS
COLOMBIA
(in two volumes)
VOLUME I
THE MAIN REPORT
July 31, 1972
Public Utilities Projects Department



OUURE! EQUIVALENT
Currcy Unit - Col.bium Peo (Col$)
US$1.00       - Col$20 (see paragraph 4.15)
Col$1.00      - US*0.05
Col$1,000,000 - US$50,000
ME&SMMZS AND nOtJIA=KNS
kilameter (km)                       - 0.62 omles
liter (1)                            - 0.26 US gallons
otor (a)                             - 3.28 feet
cubtc mter (W3)                      - 35.3 cubic feet
gallon (gal)                         - 3.785 liters
liter per second (/ec)- 0.023 million US gallons per day or
15.8 US gallons per minute
liter per oapita per day (l/c/d)     - 0.26 US gallons per capita per day
milligrams per liter (wg/l)          - 0.058 Grains per US gallon
PRIIINIPAL AB BRIATZIONS AND ACRBONM   USED
INFPMAL  - Inatituto Nacional de Famento Municipal
FONADE    - Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Rconowico
FAHO      - Pan Amrican Heath Organiation
INRES    - Inatituto Nacional pan Programs Zepeciales do Salud
DMND      - Departamnto Adminiatrscion Nacioral do Estadiatrica
Jan. 1 - Dec. 31



COLOMBIA
MEDIUM SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECTS
VOLUME ONE: THE MAIN REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY  AND  CONCLUSIONS   ..............................   i-ii
I.      INTRODUCTION   .........................................                                            1
II.       THE  SECTOR  ...........................................                                            2
Urban Development ...............................                                          2
Past Investment ................................                                           3
Development  of  the  Sector   .....                       ..................              4
III.       THE  BORROWER  AND  THE  BENEFICIARIES   ...................                                         5
The Borrower .......... ........   5
Organization for Administration of Bank Funds  ...                                         6
The  Beneficiaries   ......                  .........................                      7
Management Assistance ..................                                                   9
IV.       THE  SEVEN  PROJECTS   ...................................                                          9
Background   ................................                                              9
The  Seven  Projects   .............                  ..        ...............           10
Cost  Estimates   ..................................                                      12
Amount  of  Proposed  Loan  ..........                    ..       .............          13
Procurement  ....... ...........                         ...................              14
Disbursement   ....................................                                       14
Execution  of  the  Projects                          .......................             14
INSFOPAL's  Costs   ..............                  ..        ................            15
V.      JUSTIFICATION  ........................................                                            16
Investment  Objectives  ...........................                                       16
Least-Cost  Solutions   ............                    ..       ..............           16
Economic  Return  ..............                   ..       .................             16
Environmental  Aspects   ...........                    ..        ..............          17
Institution  Building   ............                    ..       ..............           17
This report was prepared by Messrs. Morse, Costa and Kalbermatten.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
VI.   FINANCES ............................................  18
Past Finances ............. ......................  18
Financing Plan ............ ......................  19
Tariffs .........................................  21
Future Finances ...........  ......................  22
Risks ...........................................   23
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .....   ...........  25
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.  Bank Loans Made to Colombian Cities for Water Supply and Sewerage
2.  Projects Cost and Annual Project Investments (2 pages)
3.  Disbursements and Components of the Seven Loans (2 pages)
4.  INSFOPAL External Credit Office Cash Flow Statements and Calculation
of the Net Internal Cash Generation (2 pages)
5.  Population Served and Water Used
6. Past Financial Indicators
7.  Distribution of Revenues by Services in 1971
8. Financing Plan (1972-1976)
9.  Water Supply and Sewerage Tariff Increases
10.  Power, Telephones and Other Services Tariff Increases and Financial
Targets
11.  Consolidated Future Finances
12.  Method of Calculating Rates of Return
13.  Evaluation of Risks
Chart 6599    INSFOPAL Organization Chart
Map 3916       Projects Location



COLOMBIA
APPRAISAL OF THE MEDIUM SIZE CITIES
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECTS
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report (Volumes 1 & 2) appraises water supply and sewerage
projects for seven medium-sized cities in Colombia, for which a Bank loan of
US$9.1 million equivalent is proposed. The needs of the larger cities
(Bogota, Cali and Medellin) for water supply and sewerage are being met by
loans from the Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank. The policy of
the Government is to improve services in medium-sized cities in order to
encourage a more balanced urban development and divert migration to them.
This "package" of projects directs itself to the requirement of seven medium-
sized cities in Colombia with populations from 80,000 to 300,000: Armenia,
Manizales, Neiva, Pereira, Tulua, Buenaventura and Santa Marta.
ii.       The borrower would be Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal
(INSFOPAL), the national water supply agency, and the proceeds of the loan
would be relent to seven beneficiaries under subsidiary loan agreements ac-
ceptable to the Bank between INSFOPAL and the individual beneficiaries. Five
of the beneficiaries are municipal corporations (empresas) which supply water
and sewage services and in some cases power, telephones and other services
including markets, slaughterhouses, street cleaning, etc. Two of the bene-
ficiaries are subsidiary organizations of INSFOPAL itself. In addition to
conditions of effectiveness for the loan agreement as a whole, each sub-
sidiary loan agreement would have its own conditions of effectiveness.
iii.      The report supports a policy of strengthening INSFOPAL as the na-
tional agency to provide assistance in planning, administration and finance
in the sector. INSFOPAL would administer international and national loan
funds in the sector, would become increasingly responsible for effective
project preparation and supervision of project execution, and would organize
managerial and technical assistance to individual cities.
iv.       Substantial tariff increases for water supply and sewerage are pro-
jected over 1971 levels. In some cases, increases have already been insti-
tuted but further ones will be required. Increases in telephone and power
tariffs and in charges for some of the other services provided by the muni-
cipal empresas will be necessary to ensure the financial viability of the
beneficiaries. Although the projected tariff increases are within the ranges
of increases made in other cities and within the guidelines of the National
Public Services Tariff Board, some public resistance can be expected.
v.        The beneficiaries' managements vary from poor to very good.  Con-
siderable managerial assistance will be needed and it is expected that the
Pan-American Health Organization and local consultants will assist in provid-
ing it, in collaboration with INSFOPAL.



- ii -
vi.       The total cost of the seven projects, plus the costs allocated to
INSFOPAL for managerial assistance, is US$15.5 million equivalent. The pro-
posed loan would cover half the cost of constructing the seven projects
(US$7.4 million equivalent), the cost of managerial assistance (US$0.5 mil-
lion equivalent), and financial charges on the Bank loan during construction
(US$1.2 million equivalent). Expenditure in local currency for construction
would be financed by the loan to the extent of an estimated US$5.2 million
equivalent. The foreign exchange component is estimated to be approximately
17% of the total cost of construction.
vii.      Contracts would be awarded on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding. Foreign bidders would be primarily attracted to the treatment
plant equipment and the larger valves and accessories, amounting to about
10% of project costs.
viii.     The populations of the seven cities are growing at rates from 5.0%
to 6.4% annually, and they will have a combined population of 1.8 million
by 1980. These projects would ensure that a population of 1.6 million would
be served with an adequate supply of wholesome water--that is, about double
the population which has a supply at present. Sanitary conditions in the
cities would also be substantially improved. The minimum economic rates of
return for the individual projects vary from 9X for Tulua to 17% for Armenia.
ix.       The seven projects are suitable for a Bank loan of US$9.1 million
equivalent for a term of 25 years including a grace period of four years,
provided that the general conditions stated in Chapter VII and the conditions
specific to each beneficiary listed in the seven "Recommendations" chapters
of Volume 2 are met.



COLOMBIA
APPRAISAL OF THE MEDIUM SIZE CITIES
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECTS
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal (INSFOPAL), the agency
with overall responsibility for water supply and sewerage in Colombia, has
applied for a Bank loan to help finance water supply and sewerage projects
in the seven cities of Armenia, Manizales, Neiva, Pereira, Tulua, Buenaven-
tura and Santa Marta. These projects have an estimated total cost of US$15.5
million equivalent. A Bank loan of US$9.1 million equivalent is proposed,
which INSFOPAL would relend to five independent municipal companies and to
two utilities which it owns.
1.02      The Bank has made four loans for water supply and sewerage to large
cities in Colombia, details of which are given in Annex 1. An attempt is
being made to foster better-balanced urban growth by developing medium-sized
cities and the loan now proposed would help to finance such development in
cities with populations in the range 80,000 to 300,000. This involves the
appraisal of smaller and more numerous projects than are usual in the Bank's
work, and which would be administratively onerous for both the Bank and the
Colombian Government if the usual methods were followed. A group of projects
has therefore been selected to form the basis of a single loan to be admin-
istered by INSFOPAL. There are further advantages in this approach. Loans
to individual utilities can be kept prudently small and can be made in series
so that the utility can demonstrate that it is improving and so that the next
loan in the series gives it an incentive to continue to do so. Institution-
building can also be fostered by assisting INSFOPAL to improve its own opera-
tions as the responsible agency for developing the sector, as explained later
in this report.
1.03      Volume 1 of this report is an evaluation of the External Credit
Office of INSFOPAL, the borrower, and contains outline data on the seven
projects and their respective utilities. It concludes with a set of general
conditions applicable to INSFOPAL or the seven projects as a whole. Volume
2 consists of seven separate appraisals of each of the seven projects and its
corresponding utility. These seven utilities to whom INSFOPAL would relend
the loan are termed the beneficiaries. Each of the seven appraisals in
Volume 2 contains specific conditions applicable to that particular utility
only.
1.04      Five of the municipal utilities are multi-service, operating such
services as power and telephones, in addition to water supply and sewerage,
as well as various other miscellaneous services, such as markets, slaughter-
house, etc. Because the several services are integrated in one company, it
has been necessary to review each service for each company and establish
financial criteria which would enable the service to be reasonably self-
supporting and able to contribute to its requirements for operating costs,
debt service, and a portion of future investment of the utility as a whole.



- 2 -
1.04      The appraisal was undertaken from mid-October to mid-November 1971
by three appraisal teams composed of Alberto Domenge and John Kalbermatten
(Bank staff), Roberto Dominguez, Domingo Ruiz and Adolfo Yanes (consultants),
and Guillermo Roviralta (Pan-American Health Organization, PAHO). Their work
was supervised by Charles Morse and Rene Costa of the Bank. Members of
INSFOPAL and the National Planning Department also took part in the appraisals.
II. THE SECTOR
Urban Development
2.01      Colombia has been experiencing rapid and uneven growth of the popu-
lations of its principal cities, where urban services of all kinds have be-
come inadequate. The Government intends to promote better-balanced urban
growth by encouraging migration to the medium-sized cities, thus reducing
pressures on the large cities of Bogota, Medellin, Cali, and Barranquilla.
If this policy is to succeed, adequate public services will have to be pro-
vided to make the medium-sized cities attractive to rural migrants.
2.02      Inadequacy of public services has been especially marked in the
supply of potable water and the removal of water borne wastes. The tradi-
tionally low tariffs for water supply and sewerage have made it impossible
to rise the large capital sums needed for new works, and there have also
been difficulties in attracting competent personnel. Inflation and local
political opposition to tariff increases have aggravated the situation, and
a vicious circle has been created where deteriorating service makes it more
difficult to convince the public of the necessity for tariff increases. The
Government favors tariff increases and the National Public Services Tariff
Board, created in 1968, advocates realistic tariffs which will cover cash
operating costs and generate funds for future investments.
2.03      The country's water supply and sewerage systems can be classified
mainly into three main groups:
(a) Twenty-one cities with populations ranging (in 1970) from
20,000 to 2.5 million have their own municipal companies
(empresas) that provide such public services as water supply,
sewerage, electricity distribution, telecommunications,
garbage collection, and markets. These cities have a com-
bined population of some 7.5 million, or a third of the total
population of Colombia. With a few exceptions, from 70% to 90%
of this population is connected to the empresas' water supplies.
Sewerage is not so universal, and connections to sewers vary
from 80% to less than 50%. The empresas have a board of
directors mainly appointed by the municipal councils, but
they operate with substantial autonomy and are comparatively
well run. They finance expansion with internal funds, bank
loans, and suppliers' credits.



-3-
(b) The majority of the remaining water supply systems, serving
some 750 towns with more than 2,500 inhabitants, are ad-
ministered by the national water supply agency, Instituto
Nacional de Fomento Municipal (INSFOPAL), under the Ministry
of Health. Departmentally (Colombia is divided into 22
departments) and locally, INSFOPAL operates through a variety
of institutions, such as departmental water supply corporations
called acuas, departmental offices called direcciones seccionales,
or local systems.  The two former types are run regionally on a
cooperative basis, the cash profits of the few profitable
entities partly covering the operating deficits of the
majority and Government grants making up the difference.
The total population under INSFOPAL's administration is
some 5.5 million, or around a fourth of Colombia's popu-
lation. On average, some 70% of the urban inhabitants in
this group have a supply of water, but only 50% have sewer-
age. The quality of the services is poorer than in the
case of the empresas described above in (a), administrative
competence is usually less, and funds for investments are
Government grants.
(c) The rural water systems, generally defined as those serving
communities with less than 2,500 inhabitants, are organized
under the Instituto Nacional para Programas Especiales de
Salud (INPES). Some 9 million inhabitants or 40% of the
population are under INPES. Of these, only an estimated 30%
have water supply and sewerage. These communities are too
poor to afford adequate services and depend primarily upon
Government funds for investments, although direct charges
are intended to cover operating costs and some depreciation.
Past Investment
2.04      Annual investment in the water supply and sewerage sector increased
from US$21.6 million in 1965 to US$42.4 million in 1969 and the total for the
period was US$156 million. Of this, 74% went to the empresas, 22% to INSFOPAL,
and only 4% to INPES communities. About 30% of total investment was financed
by the national budget, 20% by external sources, and the remaining 50% by
internally-generated funds and domestic credit.
2.05      External assistance for Colombia's water supply and sewerage
sector began to be given about ten years ago, and a sum equivalent to some
US$180 million was committed from 1961 to 1971. The Bank's share was roughly
70% and that of the Inter-American Development Bank 25%; the remainder was
from US AID, Eximbank, and the German Kreditanstalt. In addition, US AID
made a sector loan of US$29.0 million in June 1971 for urban development.
2.06      The Inter-American Development Bank has been active in the sector
since 1961 and has made 10 loans totalling US$43.4 million. It made two
loans to INSFOPAL in 1962 for US$10.6 million for a large number of INSFOPAL's



-4-
systems; these loans were disbursed very slowly, partly because of poor plan-
ning. Repayment by the individual systems has been generally poor and INSFOPAL
has assumed the debt service to the Inter-American Development Bank.
2.07      Previous Bank loans have all been to empresas (Annex 1).  Experi-
ence from the Bogota loans is good, but it is still too early to assess the
Cali and Palmira loans. All three have suffered variously from Government
failure to provide its funds promptly.
Development of the Sector
2.08      The National Planning Department recently concluded a national
survey of the sector to determine the total investment that would be neces-
sary to make up deficiencies in the two services and keep abreast of popu-
lation growth. The survey assumed that by 1980 certain minimum standards
would be reached for the percentage of population served, per capita consump-
tion, and quality of water. Annual investment requirements through 1980,
which are indicative only due to the quality of the data, were then estimated
as follows: Col$1,000 million (US$50 million) for the empresas, Col$630 mil-
lion (US$31 million) for INSFOPAL, and Col$550 million (US$27 million) for
INPES.
2.09      The difficulty of raising such large sums indicates that goals
will have to be reduced considerably and that the mobilization of internal
resources through increased tariffs is of vital importance.
2.10      Institution building probably has the greatest chance of success
with the municipal empresas, because of their size, managerial competence
and concentration of population, and are the Bank's most likely potential
borrowers. The five empresas which would be beneficiaries of the proposed
loan are all in need of general assistance in operations, administration
and finance in varying degrees, but INSFOPAL's two utilities need such
assistance even more.
2.11      The strategy of the proposed loan, therefore, is to make use of
INSFOPAL to assess and organize such assistance. INSFOPAL has established
an External Credit Office 1/ for this purpose which will assist the seven
beneficiaries and will handle applications to the Bank for procurement and
other administrative matters relating to the Loan, as set out in detail in
Chapter III.
2.12      Establishment of the External Credit Office of INSFOPAL as a com-
petent national center to provide assistance in planning, administration
and finance to the empresas and to the sector generally is seen as one of
the major objectives of the proposed loan. The loan would therefore include
assistance to INSFOPAL towards the costs of consultants who will advise that
1/   Subdireccion de Financiamiento y Credito Externo.



office initially and INSFOPAL itself (para. 4.23). The financing plan dis-
cussed in Chapter VI includes in its sources budgetary funds from the
Colombian Government. The External Credit Office would lend these govern-
ment funds and in later years, after it had received repayments, would re-
lend them again in the sector. A role of increasing importance and author-
ity in guiding the sector towards greater efficiency and full development is
therefore envisaged for INSFOPAL and its External Credit Office.
III. THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARIES
The Borrower
3.01      The Borrower would be the Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal
(INSFOPAL), the national agency responsible for water supply and sewerage in
Colombia. INSFOPAL was created in 1936 under the Ministry of Public Works.
In 1968 under Decree 2561 of October 7 and 3178 of December 26, it was placed
under the Ministry of Health.
3.02      The principal functions of INSFOPAL can be summarized as:
(i) to prepare public investment programs in the water supply
and sewerage sector;
(ii) to construct water supply and sewerage projects for com-
munities with more than 2,500 inhabitants; 1/
(iii) to supervise construction of projects financed by govern-
ment funds;
(iv) to establish standards of construction and operation;
(v)  to submit applications for tariff increases to the
National Public Services Tariff Board for those systems
under its jurisdiction;
(vi) to operate and maintain those systems.
3.03      The Minister of Health is president of INSFOPAL's board of direc-
tors; the directors comprise one representative each of the National Planning
Department, the Colombian Society of Engineers, INPES, the Colombian Associa-
tion of Municipalities, the Colombian Association of Agriculturists, and the
National Federation of Coffee Growers.
1/   The empresas of the larger municipalities, including the five included
herein, are excluded in practice, although the decree makes no mention
of them.



3.04      The management of INSFOPAL has been uneven over the years and its
administration is generally poor. INSFOPAL has therefore made an agreement
with PAHO for large-scale general managerial assistance and reorganization
in accordance with the objectives of the National Planning office which are
to transform INSFOPAL into the financial institution for the sector. Funds
for this program would be included in the proposed loan, and its implementa-
tion will be reviewed with the Bank from time to time.
3.05      INSFOPAL is presently divided into three departments--technical,
operational, and administrative--and operates regionally as noted in paragraph
2.03(b) (see organizational Chart 6599). It has recently created a new de-
partment, "Subdireccion de Financiamiento y Credito Externo" (the External
Credit Office), to handle national and foreign lending in the sector. The
head of the External Credit Office reports directly to the general manager
of INSFOPAL and the office has eight professionals, including engineers and
financial analysts.
3.06      The functions assigned to its External Credit Office, in summary,
are to:
(i) assist the empresas in the preparation of projects for
foreign and national financing;
(ii)  assist the Bank in the appraisal of projects;
(iii) assist the empresas in the preparation of periodical
reports;
(iv)  review and approve bidding documents and bid evaluation;
(v) assist the empresas in the preparation of disbursement
requests;
(vi)  oversee loan conditions;
(vii) establish uniform administrative procedures for certain
matters, such as programs of construction and cost
accounting;
(viii)  coordinate and promote training programs; and
(ix)  coordinate, when feasible, joint purchases.
Organization for Administration of Bank Funds
3.07      INSFOPAL would relend the proceeds of the proposed loan to the
seven beneficiaries, under subsidiary loan agreements acceptable to the
Bank. In addition to general conditions in the proposed loan agreement
applicable to all beneficiaries (including the conditions of effectiveness),
each beneficiary would have to comply with specific conditions included in
its subsidiary loan agreement (with its own conditions of effectiveness).



- 7 -
3.08      The intention is that the External Credit Office would carry out
the responsibilities of INSFOPAL under the proposed loan, including super-
vision of project execution, bidding review, centralization of information,
and disbursement applications. It is expected that future projects would
be prepared under the supervision of the External Credit Office and appraised
by it for presentation to the foreign lending institutions. As the office
develops and proves its competence, the Bank would progressively delegate
supervisory and appraisal responsibilities to it. Nevertheless considerable
project supervision by Bank staff will be necessary in the early years. If
successful, this office would be an important institution-building achieve-
ment of the proposed loan.
3.09      The success of the proposed "package" approach to lending in the
water supply and sewerage sector in Colombia will depend upon the effective-
ness of the External Credit Office. There is an appreciable risk, however,
which is both a question of staff competence and institutional ability. The
chief of the office is an experienced financial manager from the Empresas
Municipales de Cali, and the staff, although of limited experience, seems
to have the necessary potential.
3.10      It will be necessary to have the External Credit Office assisted
by experienced consultants for a period of one to three years. INSFOPAL has
contracted with a consortium of Colombian firms to provide an engineer, a
financial analyst and an administrative expert. The assistance will have an
important training function. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that assistance in a satisfactory form will be continued as long as the Bank
deems it necessary. Funds for this assistance have been included in the es-
timates.  INSFOPAL has also concluded a contractfor training assistance with
the Empresas de Acueducto y Alcantarillado de Bogota.
The Beneficiaries
3.11      The following is a list of the seven cities and the services they
provide:
Services in addition to
City                Organization            water supply and sewerage
Armenia            Municipal Empresas         Power, telephones, other
Manizales              "         "            Telephones, other
Neiva                 Is        it            Other
Pereira                "         "            Power, telephones, other
Tulua                  "        "             Telephones, other
Buenaventura       INSFOPAL Acuavalle         None (no sewerage)
Santa Marta        INSFOPAL Acuadelma         None
Note:     "Other" includes street cleaning, markets, slaughterhouses and
garbage collection.



-8-
3.12      Each municipal empresa (with the exception of Pereira, which has
been established by a national law) has been created by a decree of its
municipal council and is governed by a board of directors, numbering five
to seven, appointed by the municipal council. To ensure independent and
businesslike administration, the decrees have required councils to appoint
a majority of the directors from lists proposed by local banking and profes-
sional organizations.  However, this requirement has been recently removed
in most municipalities so that all appointments are made directly by, and
solely at the pleasure of, municipal council.  This leads to some concern,
on the basis of Cali's experience, that boards exclusively appointed by
municipal councils may lead to excessive interference in the daily affairs
of the empresas and to deterioration of management as experienced people
leave and new staff without the same competence or experience are brought
in. This is a risk it is necessary to take.
3.13      The boards of directors have considerable authority, including
authority to fix tariffs and select and dismiss the general managers. De-
tailed administration is delegated in practice to the general managers, all
of whom at present are competent and experienced.
3.14      The technical operations of the empresas vary from poor to good.
Lack of revenue and a shortage of qualified technicians are the principal
obstacles to improvement. The first should be remedied, and the second
should be improved under the proposed loan.
3.15      Financial management varies from poor to very good.  Pereira is
an outstanding examDle of good financial management; it has detailed five-
year investment plans for all its services and a financial management that
is knowledgeable and efficient. The other empresas have moderate financial
skill; the basic elements are present but more knowledgeable and imaginative
application is required.
3.16      The two INSFOPAL systems considered in this report both belong to
acuas. An acua is a kind of incorporated cooperative, its shares being
held by INSFOPAL, the department, and the municipalities it serves in the
amount that each shareholder has subscribed in money or physical assets. Gov-
ernment budget appropriations are usually converted by INSFOPAL into additional
shares so that INSFOPAL is almost always a majority stockholder. The cash
earnings (in no case is a profit earned after adequate depreciation) of the
more profitable municipal systems are used to cover the cash operating de-
ficits of the others. The short-term goal of the Colombian Government is
that the water revenues of any acua should cover at least operating costs.
3.17      These two systems present an unattractive picture.  Buenaventura
has been badly operated for a number of years. With the retirement of its
manager, INSFOPAL merged the Bulenaventura system into Acuavalle (one of the
better run acuas) which has a dynamic and competent manager, and its staff
have addressed themselves to correcting its grosser deficiencies. The ills
there of fraudulent connections, losses of water, uncollected bills and the
like are formidable but the prognosis is good.



- 9 -
3.18      Acuadelma, which includes Santa Marta, has had poor management.  A
new manager who has promise has been assigned to Santa Marta, but the present
management of Acuadelma itself is unimpressive. The difference from Buena-
ventura lies in the absence of a strong organization to which Santa Marta
could be attached. It will, therefore, be necessary to supervise closely the
development of this system to encourage improvement. Santa Marta will be re-
moved from Acuadelma and become an empresa.
Management Assistance
3.19      The seven beneficiaries require varying degrees of management as-
sistance in administrative and financial aspects and technical assistance in
the operation of their water supply and sewerage systems. The provision of
management and technical assistance and training is a major objective of the
proposed loan. A principal activity of the External Credit Office would be
to send missions to review all the operations of the beneficiaries and pre-
pare terms of reference for management consultants to assist them. Their
other services must also require technical assistance, but neither the ap-
praisal mission nor INSFOPAL has competence in this matter.
3.20      The beneficiaries would then be free to make contracts for this
assistance with Colombian firms, with PAHO directly or through the External
Credit Office, or by any other means the External Credit Office and the Bank
considered satisfactory. The External Credit Office could recruit specialists
itself or in cooperation with the Colombia Water Supply and Sewerage Associa-
tion. The beneficiaries would bear the cost of this assistance and funds
have been provided in the project cost estipnates. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that a management assistance program satisfactory to the
Bank will be carried out and a program with target dates has been established
for its implementation. The subsidiary loan agreements will stipulate that
the beneficiaries will employ competent consultants as required by INSFOPAL's
reviews.
IV. THE SEVEN PROJECTS
Background
4.01      US AID and the Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Economico (FONADE)
financed the feasibility studies for the projects of the five empresas
serving the cities of Armenia, Manizales, Pereira, Neiva and Tulua. These
feasibility studies were prepared by Colombian consulting engineering firms
with minor collaboration in some cases with US consulting firms. The proj-
ects for the two INSFOPAL systems serving Buenaventura and Santa Marta were
prepared by Colombian consultants under contract to INSFOPAL and then were
updated for this appraisal by a Colombian consulting firm under contract to
INSFOPAL and financed by FONADE.



- 10 -
4.02      The appraisal included a water supply project for the Empresas of
Cartagena. This company's pipeline is duplicated by a pipeline built for
a government-owned industrial plant. The most efficient joint use of these
two pipelines must first be agreed upon before a project for further expan-
sion of municipal water supply and distribution can be designed. This problem
is receiving the attention of the Colombian Government.
4.03      A project for the Empresas of Villavicencio was also appraised
but it has been postponed while the company reviews the size of the project
it can afford and establishes its financial viability.
4.04      The appraisal also reviewed projects for two INSFOPAL-administered
water supply systems and a proposed INSFOPAL sewerage system. One water
supply project in Riohacha was dropped because it was not the least-cost
solution by a substantial margin, and another in Popayan because the project
was not adequately defined. A sewerage project in Tumaco was dropped because
it is not justified at the present time.
The Seven Projects
4.05      The table below lists some principal statistics for the seven proj-
ects. Full details are in the seven reports in Volume 2, and Map 3916 at the
end of this report shows the seven cities. The figures for output of water
given in the table do not correspond with the project costs since rehabilita-
tion, distribution system and relief of overloaded plants are important in
some cases. Brief descriptive notes follow the table.
The Seven Projects
Percentage
of           Capacity
Estimated    P?opulation          for
Cost       Now Served       Water Supply
of Project       by:          Before After
Popula-   Depart-    Col$      Water Sewerage   Project Project
City Served    tion      ment      Million      X     __        1/sec   1/sec
Armenia       170,000  Quindio       44        79     70         500      800
Manizales     300,000  Caldas       100        80     80        1,070   1,400
Neiva         130,000  Huila         47        73     80         400      700
Pereira       240,000  Riseralda    92         80     70         440   1,460
Tulua          80,000  Valle         51        74     75         229      400
Buenaventura  100,000  Valle         23        50    small       350      350
Santa Marta   140,000  Magdalena    18         72     47         410      510
Note:  The first five projects are for water supply and sewerage.  The
last two (INSFOPAL's systems) are for water supply only.



- 1 1 -
4.06      Armenia.  Water is abstracted from the Quindio River; operation
and maintenance of the system are poor, and 50% of its water is unaccounted
for. The project would increase the capacity of the treatment plant, in-
crease storage capacity, improve the distribution system, augment transmis-
sion and distribution mains add some service, and purchase equipment for
maintenance. It would be the first phase of a larger expansion program.
4.07     lManizales.  A number of small streams supply water to an old treat-
ment plant of 400 l/sec capacity (overloaded at present to 750 1/sec) and a
new treatment plant of 670 1/sec capacity. The distribution system is limited
in capacity and coverage. The project would involve increasing the capacity
of the new plant to 1000 1/sec, adding storage capacity, and improving the
distribution network. The sewerage system would be extended to discharge
into streams away from populated areas (which in turn discharge into the
Manizales River) and to reduce erosion of the steep slopes on which consider-
able areas of low-income housing are built.
4.08      Neiva.  Water from Las Ceibas River is treated at a new plant with
a capacity of 400 1/sec. The distribution system is inadequate. The project
would consist of improving the intake and main to the treatment plant, in-
creasing the capacity of the plant to 700 1/sec, and augmenting storage and
piping in the distribution network. Some sewers and drains would be con-
structed. Operation and maintenance of both water supply and sewerage need
to be improved.
4.09      Pereira.  Water is taken from the Otun River.  Two old treatment
plants have a joint capacity of 370 1/sec; an additional 70 1/sec are sup-
plied by bypassing the plants. The distribution network is inadequate and
has many small and corroded pipes. The project would consist of enlarging
the two treatment plants, building a new treatment plant of 560 1/sec capa-
city, adding new storage and extending the distribution network. A new in-
tercepting sewer would be built to improve the existing sewerage system, and
equipment for operation and maintenance would be purchased. The operations
of this empresas are generally very good.
4.10      Tulua.  The Tulua River feeds a treatment plant of 75 1/sec capa-
city, and two wells supply a total of 154 1/sec. The distribution network
is adequate. The project would provide a total capacity of 400 1/sec. Three
new wells and improvement of the two existing wells would be undertaken, and
the existing treatment plant would be abandoned. Additional storage and an
extension of the distribution system would be included. Operation and mainte-
nance of the sewerage system are poor; additional sewers and drainage works
are included in the project. Sewage drains into the Tulua and Morales Rivers;
pollution is approaching their capacity to absorb it and therefore sewage
treatment will have to be considered in due course.
4.11      Buenaventura.  This city's source of water is the Escalerete River.
The water needs no treatment, but a treatment plant has been built.  The
service is poor, maintenance and operation are inadequate, and losses are up
to 73%. A new administration is attempting to remedy the situation. The



- 12 -
project would be the first stage of a larger program; it would improve dis-
tribution and storage, reduce losses and connect about 2,000 new customers.
There is little sewerage or storm drainage in the city, which presents
serious problems, but this matter is the responsibility of a regional de-
velopment corporation and the project concerns water supply only.
4.12      Santa Marta.  Water is abstracted from the Manzanares River and
treated at a plant with an output of 300 1/sec; two wells each supply 55
1/sec.  The service is poor.  There are 11,800 registered connections and
an estimated 2,800 illegal connections. At present the water source compo-
nent of the project has not been fully defined. It will be either a modifi-
cation of the existing treatment plant, to increase its capacity by 100 1/s,
or more wells. A ground water and an economic study will be performed to de-
cide between the two alternatives. In either case transmission and distribu-
tion mains would be constructed. Sewerage is not included in the project,
but may be financed by a US AID loan. The city has a limited sewerage system
and storm drainage is not a great problem.
Cost Estimates
4.13      The total cost of each project is given below; details are in
Annex 2. Costs include all contingencies.
Col$ (million)            US$ (million)
Local   Foreign   Total  Local   Foreign   Total
Armenia                       36.8     6.8       43.6   1.6       0.2       1.8
Manizales                     93.4     6.3       99.7   3.6       0.3       3.9
Neiva                         41.8     4.9       46.7   1.70      0.2       1.9
Pereira                      66.8    24.7        91.5   2.6       1.0       3.6
Tulua                        43.3      7.7       51.0   1.7       0.3      2.04
Buenaventura                 20.6      2.1       22.7   0.90      0.1      0.99
Santa Marta                  14.8      3.3       18.1   0.6       0.2      0.8
INSFOPAL's Costs               -      11.4       11.4    -        0.5      0.5
TOTAL COST OF THE
PROJECTS                  317.5    67.2      384.7  12.7        2.8     15.5
Interest on Bank Loan
during Construction          -      31.1       -       -        1.2       -
Total Foreign Exchange          -     98.3        -      -        4.00



- 13 -
4.14       The estlmates are based on the feasibility studies (updated and
modified as necessary for those studies done before 1971) and costs of works
recently executed by INSFOPAL. Technical contingencies have been analyzed
project by project and range from 10% for imported equipment in some projects
to 30% for the construction cost of sewerage in others; technical contingen-
cies as a whole amount to 12.5% of the estimated total cost of the seven proj-
ects. Engineering design and administration of construction were generally
estimated at 10% of the net construction cost and amounts to 6.8% of the
total cost of the seven projects.
4.15      All project costs are based on 1971 prices, to which were added
price contingencies of 10% per annum for local currency costs and 5% per
annum for foreign currency costs. Price contingencies amount to 21.5% of
the total estimated cost of the seven projects. The 1971 rate of exchange
averaged Col$20 to US$1 and this rate of exchange has been assumed to in-
crease by 9% annually throughout the construction period.
Amount of Proposed Loan
4.16      A loan for US$9.10 million is proposed, equal to the sum of -
(a) about 50% of the cost of US$15.05 million of the seven
projects;
(b) 100% of INSFOPAL's cost of managerial assistance of US$0.48
million (paragraph 4.23); and
(c) US$1.19 million of interest and committed charges payable
on the proposed Bank loan during construction.
4.17      The loan would cover the following:
(a) US$2.75 million, or 30% of the loan, for the estimated
total foreign exchange cost of the projects;
(b) US$1.19 million for the interest and commitment charges
on the Bank loan during construction; and
(c) US$5.16 million, or 57% of the loan, for local currency
expenditures.
4.18       If costs are greater than estimated, the beneficiaries would be ex-
pected to meet the overruns, but assurances have been obtained from the
Colombian Government that it will promptly provide the necessary funds if the
beneficiaries cannot do so. Should any of the projects cost less than es-
timated, the Bank would consider applying savings toward 50% of the cost of
additional related water supply or sewerage works.



- 14 -
Procurement
4.19      All contracts would be let on the basis of international competitive
bidding. Foreign suppliers are expected to win contracts for treatment plant
equipment, larger valves and piping accessories, meters and certain operation-
al equipment amounting to perhaps US$1.3 million. Colombian bidders are ex-
pected to win all civil engineering contracts and supply contracts for pipes
and smaller valves and fittings. For the purpose of evaluating bids, a 15%
preference (customs duties are substantially greater) would be allowed for
equipment manufactured in Colombia except for pipes, where no preference has
been requested by Government as Colombian suppliers have a very substantial
local advantage and are able to compete effectively without a preference.
The amount of equipment procured locally is expected to be small. The
beneficiaries are not liable for import duties. As in previous loans, no
regional preference is contemplated.
4.20      Contracts for management service to INSFOPAL by PAHO and limited
engineering consultant service to Armenia and Pereira have been signed and
retroactive financing of payments under the contracts is recommended. This
would amount to less than $150,000 equivalent for payments made after May 31,
1972. The Board has already been informed.
Disbursement
4.21      Applications for all disbursement would be made by the External
Credit Office. The loan would be disbursed against the full CIF cost of
all direct imports, the full cost of foreign consulting services, and a
percentage (about 43%) of the cost of all supplies, civil engineering works
and services procured locally. The exact percentage would be calculated in
each case so that the Bank would finance half of each project's cost. In
Annex 3 is a disbursement schedule showing estimated disbursements for each
project and consolidated for the loan as a whole. Also in Annex 3 is a table
listing the percentages of foreign exchange costs, local currency costs, and
interest charges during construction, financed by each project loan.
Execution of the Projects
4.22      The projects would be executed in the years 1972 through 1975.  In
the cases of Buenaventura and Santa Marta the work is expected to be completed
in 1973, and in the case of Neiva and Armenia in 1974. Each of the empresas
has retained a Colombian consulting firm for final design and supervision of
construction; these firms are satisfactory to the Bank. Assurances were ob-
tained that the subsidiary loan agreements will contain provision that satis-
factory consultants will continue to be employed, and that arrangements satis-
factory to the Bank for final design and supervision of construction will
also be made for the Buenaventura and Santa Marta projects, using either
INSFOPAL's staff or consultants.



- 15 -
INSFOPAL's Costs
4.23      INSFOPAL's responsibilities under the proposed loan would be
handled by its External Credit Office. The costs which the proposed loan
would help to finance would include the cost of general managerial assis-
tance to INSFOPAL given by PAHO and to the External Credit Office given by
local consultants (paragraphs 3.04 and 3.10). An estimate of these costs
for 1972-1976 and the costs of running the External Credit Office is sum-
marized below, and a cash flow forecast is given in Annex 4.
Col$ million             US$ million
Local  Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign  Total
Operating cost of
External Credit Office           18.2      -       18.2   0.70       -      0.70
Management Assistance to
External Credit Office            5.7               5.7   0.24              0.24
Management Assistance to
INSPOPAL                           -      5.7       5.7    -       0.24    0.24
Total Cost                         23.9      5.7     29.6   0.94    0.24    1.18
Interest during
Construction                       -      2.0        -     -       0.06      -
Total Foreign Exchange                -       7.7       -      -      0.30      -
4.24      The expenses of the External Credit Office in 1972 have been esti-
mated at Col$2.9 million (US$0.13 million), consisting largely of personnel
costs.  The budget is forecast to increase by about 10% a year to reflect
assumed general price level increases. The amount of US$0.54 million is in-
cluded in the loan to cover management assistance to INSFOPAL and to the Ex-
ternal Credit Office plus interest during construction.
4.25      It is assumed that 40% of the interest collected by INSPOPAL on
national (Colombian Government) loans to the beneficiaries amounting to
Col$13.4 million will be used to meet the expenses of the External Credit Of-
fice from 1972 to 1976. The balance of the interest collected and the amounts
corresponding to amortization of national loans would be used by INSFOPAL for
further lending in the sector. Debt service on the loan amount corresponding
to managerial assistance to the External Credit Office would be met out of the
interest on the national loans. INSFOPAL would finance from its own budget
the debt service on the amount of the Bank loan for the PAHO's assistance to
INSFOPAL itself.



- 16 -
V. JUSTIFICATION
Investment Objectives
5.01      The objective of the investment is to meet the near future demand
for water at price levels which are financially adequate and within the levels
in effect for other Bank financed water projects.  Recent censuses in the seven
project cities show annual rates of population growth ranging from 5.0% to 6.4+%.
These growth rates are expected to continue, thus increasing the seven cities'
population from 1.1 million at present to 1.8 million by 1980. The percentage
of this population with a supply of water is now around 75%, with the exception
of Buenaventura where it is only 40%; by 1980 it should increase from 75%7 in
Buenaventura to 90% in other cities. A population of 1.6 million --double
that now supplied--would then be supplied with adequate quantities of water
of reliable quality.
5.02      Gross consumption (including losses and commercial and industrial
consumption) of 250 l/c/d to 290 l/c/d is projected in the seven cities
around 1980. Net daily consumption per capita will remain unchanged because
additional connections will probably be in poorer areas where the average
consumption will be lower. Losses should drop from 55% in some cities to
around 25%. These estimates are necessarily speculative, since data on
water consumption are poor. Consumption by type of customer, the propor-
tion of people served and the amount of unaccounted for water can only be
estimated approximately. The figures discussed above are tabulated in
Annex 5.
Least-Cost Solutions
5.03      The projects have been pared by the postponement of works to the
financial capacity of the beneficiaries, yet meet the most urgent needs;
they are the least-cost solutions in this context. Where comparisons of
alternatives were appropriate (e.g., choice of water source for Tulua and
sizing of transmission mains) discount rates of 10% to 12% were used by the
consultants. In some cases existing plants could be upgraded permitting
new plants to be reduced in size or deferred (Pereira, Armenia). In others,
sub-optimal supply works had already been constructed (Manizales, Neiva).
5.04      The standards of service for which the projects have been designed
were reviewed by the missions and generally agreed by them. In a few in-
stances there were reductions during appraisal, such as reducing storage,
reducing the number of pressure zones, etc.
Economic Return
5.05      The minimum estimate of the economic return for the individual
projects are as follows:



- 17 -
Armenia                   17%
Manizales                 11
Neiva                     10
Pereira                   13
Tulua                      9
Buenaventura              14
Santa Marta               13
5.06      The calculations were made using 1972 prices and are presented in
Appendix 3 of the reports for the individual projects in Volume 2. Benefits
were measured by the additional quantities of water provided, valued at the
proposed combined water supply and sewerage tariff, after deducting incre-
mental operating costs due to the project. The costs were those of the
project and subsequent investments necessary to utilize it fully. Variations
in the rates of return are explained by differences in topography, hydrology,
existing facilities, investment phasing and tariff levels.
5.07      Not all benefits are captured by this method, which equates revenues
from sales with economic benefits. Consumers do not generally have to pay
as much as water is worth to them, and the consumers' surplus is thought to
be substantial. Health benefits, both direct and indirect (through a general
improvement in the health of the whole community), and improvement in the com-
munities' environment are examples of benefits which may be understated or
completely omitted by this analysis.
Environmental Aspects
5.08      Sanitary conditions should be substantially improved in the urban
areas through the provision of improved and expanded water supply service
and sewage collection. The discharge of untreated sewage into watercourses
will, of course, increase by the provision of better water service and more
use of the sewerage system by urban inhabitants. However, in all cases the
receiving waters are currently able to handle the immediate pollutional
load without untoward effect. Pollution of streams in built-up areas will
be reduced. The improved water supply and sewerage services will be pro-
vided predominately in areas inhabited by lower income groups.
5.09      There will be a need for sewage treatment in due course for Tulua,
and at Santa Marta the same problem will need to be reviewed in a few years.
Institution Building
5.09      The establishment of an effective mechanism in INSFOPAL to prepare
projects and channel loan funds in the sector, as well as take over loan
supervision from the Bank progressively, is an important objective. The
management assistance to be provided to the seven beneficiaries should have
a substantial spillover effect on other municipal empresas and institutions
in Colombia, in addition to the improvement in operations of the beneficiaries
themselves.



- 18 -
VI. FINANCES
Past Finances
6.01      The consolidated financial positions of the five municipal empresas
that are beneficiaries are acceptable, but the positions of the INSFOPAL ben-
eficiaries are precarious. Annex 6 shows consolidated financial indicators
of the seven beneficiaries for 1969-71.
6.02      The largest revenues earned by the empresas are from their power
and/or telephone services, followed by the other services such as, slaughter-
houses., markets and street cleaning. Water supply and sewerage generally
produce the smallest portion of revenues (Annex 7).
6.03      The finances of water and sewerage have been characterized by
operating losses and cash shortages which have precluded substantial invest-
ment. The cash shortages are largely due to low tariffs, less than Col$0.80/m3
(US$0.15/1000 gallons) and to high percentages of unaccounted for water
(from 26% in Manizales to 73% in Buenaventura). The Government has made
capital grants to Manizales, Neiva and Buenaventura because of urgent problems
in those cities.
6.04      The municipal empresas, except Neiva, have telephone services.
These services have been profitable; adequate internal cash generation and
suppliers' credits have enabled the empresas to provide five telephones per
100 inhabitants, a ratio above the national average.
6.05      Only the Pereira and Armenia empresas have electricity services.
The two cities operate their own distribution systems and generating stations
and also purchase power in bulk from Central Hidroelectrica de Caldas. The
financial position of the electrical power division in Pereira is fair; in
Armenia it is poor. Neither city has recently invested in new plant nor
provided adequate maintenance; as a result, losses average 25% to 30%.
Tariffs are too low to support any substantial investment program, and a
recent increase in the bulk price of power has not been passed on to
consumers.
6.06      The slaughterhouse, market and street cleaning services of the
municipal empresas are labor-intensive. Operating costs often exceed
revenues and cash generated by slaughterhouse and market services is gen-
erally used to offset losses incurred by street cleaning.
6.07      About all that can be said about the INSFOPAL systems (Buenaven-
tura and Santa Marta) is that the future should be better than the past.
The financial results of Santa Marta seem to have improved from very bad
to poor and the system has, in effect, defaulted on its debt to INSFOPAL.
Buenaventura has before its transfer to Amadelena been little better.



- 19 -
6.08      The use of independent accountants for audit has been unknown.
In anticipation of loan requirements, steps have been taken by some empresas
to employ them, but only Pereira and Tulua have independent auditors. The
subsidiary loan agreements will stipulate the employment of satisfactory
auditors. The accounts of INSFOPAL's External Credit Office will be audited
similarly.
Financing Plan
6.09      The financing plans for water supply and sewerage during the various
construction periods are summarized below. Annex 8 gives the financing plan
by project and detailed past finances are given for each beneficiary and by
services in Volume 2.
Col$      US$       %
---million---
Applications of funds
Capital Investment:
Expenditure on projects                   384.6      15.53   66.4
Interest charged to construction           65.9       2.47   10.6
Other works                                 77.1      2.98   12.7
Total investment                                527.6     20.98   89.7
Increase in working capital                      64.8      2.41   10.3
Total applications                        592.4      23.39  100.0
Sources of funds
Internal Sources:
Internal cash generation                  274.8      10.48   44.8
Less:  debt service                        87.0       3.36   14.4
net internal sources               187.8       7.12   30.4
Government grant                            9.2       0.42    1.8
Borrowings:
IBRD loan                                 230.5       9.10   38.9
Foreign loan                               10.4       0.37    1.6
National loan I                            131.7      5.41   23.2
National loan II                            17.5      0.73    3.1
Local loans                                 5.3       0.24    1.0
Total borrowings                          395.4      15.85   67.8
Total sources                             592.4      23.39  100.0



- 20 -
6.10      The sources of funds would be:
(a)  a Bank loan of US$9.1 million equivalent at an assumed
interest rate of 7.25%, with amortization over 21 years
after a four-year grace period. The Bank loan would cover
interest and other charges on the loan during construction;
(b)  national (government) loans for Col$ 131.7 1/ million (US$5.41
million equivalent) at an interest rate of 12% 2/, repaid in
equal semi-annual payments over 11 years after a four-year
grace period. This would also cover interest and other
charges to be paid during construction;
(c)  various local bank loans for a total of Col$5.3 million
at various terms;
(d)  internal cash generation of the beneficiaries of Col$188
million; and
(e)  two government grants already made, one to Buenaventura
for Col$7.2 million, and one to Santa Marta for Col$ 2.0
million;
(f)  the foreign loan and the national loan II are for a subse-
quent project in Armenia which would begin in 1975.
6.11      Although this financing plan has been established on the basis of
completely independent projects, the consolidation was necessary to determine:
(i)  the total Bank loan amount and disbursement to INSFOPAL,
including the financing of PAHO's and local management
assistance;
(ii) the amounts and disbursements of the national (government)
loan.
6.12      National (Colombian Government) loans which were included in the
financing plans drawn up for Bank Loans 638-CO (Cali Water Supply and
Sewerage Project) and 738-CO (Palmira Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
have not been provided promptly as required under the Guarantee Agreements.
This has placed both projects in financial difficulties although recent
steps should resolve the delays in the future. Other Bank projects in
Colombia have suffered similarly. To ensure efficient and prompt execution
of the seven projects, assurances were obtained from the Colombian Govern-
ment during negotiations that the national loan funds for 1972 will be made
available and for 1973 will be included in the budget as a condition of loan
effectiveness. A schedule of specific amounts and dates when funds would be
passed to INSFOPAL has been established for 1973 and subsequent years' funds.
1/   Not including Col$1.0 million that will be disbursed in 1972, before the
construction period.
2/   Assumed to be 14% for AID loan in Santa Marta.



- 21 -
Tariffs
6.13      The financial requirements for water supply and sewerage have been
projected in some detail and the financial needs of the other services of
the beneficiaries have been estimated as well. If these financial require-
ments change, the required revenues and the necessary tariffs by these other
services would change also. The revenues necessary to meet the projected
financial requirements have been calculated either as rates of return or
operating ratios (for "other services" and the Santa Marta water supply) and
will be included as targets in the subsidiary loan agreements, which also
provide for their annual review and prompt tariff application and implementa-
tion as required. The required tariffs were estimated on the basis of the
revenues necessary to meet operating expenses, service debt and generate
some 20% to 40% of total project costs and an initial increase would be a
condition of effectiveness for the subsidiary loan agreements. The
projects were reduced in varying amounts so that the resulting tariffs for
water supply and sewerage would not be out of line with those of the other
beneficiaries and Bogota and Cali. The tariffs are discussed in detail in
Volume 2, and compared in Annexes 9 and 10.
6.14      Except for Pereira, no beneficiary had prepared any long-range
investment programs. The programs assumed in the projections are the best
estimates of the appraisal missions but are quite conjectural. A condition
of effectiveness for each subsidiary loan agreement will be that each bene-
ficiary has prepared a five-year investment plan for each service, which will
be revised annually.  Supervision missions would assist in improving these
plans progressively.
6.15      Tariff applications must be made by the empresas themselves to the
National Public Services Tariff Board but implementation is the sole respon-
sibility of the empresas. INSFOPAL initiates tariff requests for its systems;
implementation is the responsibility of the local managers. Assurances were
obtained that INSFOPAL will make appropriate tariff applications on behalf of
Buenaventura and Santa Marta. Their implementation by local managers will be
required by the tariff requirements in the subsidiary loan agreements.
6.16      It is the policy of the Colombian Government that public services
should charge tariffs to earn conventional rates of return, although these
may vary by size of locality. In the size of cities represented by the ben-
eficiaries, these rates are in the range proposed by this report. The Na-
tional Public Services Tariff Board is responsible for the review and ap-
proval of public utilities' tariff applications for all the services dis-
cussed in this report. It has already approved some tariff increases for
the beneficiaries. Assurances were obtained that the Government will
promptly approve tariff requests made to meet the targets set for the pro-
posed loan. The Board has acted promptly and effectively in the past, both
for systems in general and for Bank-financed projects.



- 22 -
6.17      Average tariffs for water supply and sewerage vary from city to
city and are highest in Santa Marta (Col$1.40/m3 or US$0.27/1,000 gal);
none of the other cities has been charging nmre than Col$0.80/m3 (US$0.15/
1,000 gal). Some of these tariffs have not been increased for a number of
years. Sewerage services are charged as a fixed percentage of water bills
and this percentage also varies from city to city (Annex 9).
6.18      The estimated tariffs and annual increases necessary for the
empresas to meet the financial requirements of the water supply and sewerage
investment program are given in Annex 9. The tariffs are about the same as
in Palmira, and less than in Bogota and Cali, and are within the general
range considered acceptable by the National Public Services Tariff Board.
Nevertheless, some public resistance can be expected, and it may well occur
that the effectiveness of individual subsidiary loan agreements will be de-
layed. Except for Santa Marta, large increases from 80% to 120% over 1971
are projected for 1972 when the construction work begins; during construction
some further increases will be necessary to compensate for price increases
estimated at 10% annually. The projections assume no increases after the
final year of construction (1975).
6.19      Increases in telephone tariffs would also be required to compen-
sate for past annual inflation. They would vary annually from 6% to 29% on
average for telephones in 1972 and 1973 and should be easy to obtain (Annex 10).
6.20      Tariff increases would also be necessary for power services (see
para. 6.05). They would vary annually from 5% to 76% on average per kWh
in 1972 and 1973 (Annex 10).
6.21      There is no uniform tariff structure for slaughterhouse, market
and street-cleaning services. Slaughterhouse revenues depend on the number
of animals killed, market revenues are generated by rents, and street-clean-
ing revenues are generally collected through a municipal tax. Some adjust-
ments should be implemented; they would vary by city and by individual serv-
ice.
Future Finances
6.22      The financial performance of the beneficiaries' water supply and
sewerage services would improve during and after construction of the projects
because of larger sales of water, increased tariffs and reduced losses of
water. The subsidiary loan agreements will stipulate that funds generated
by these services should be reserved exclusively for them during the cons-
truction period.
6.23      Annex 11 gives a stmmary of principal consolidated financial data
for the empresas. Operating ratios would decrease progressively from as high
as 88% to about 50% by 1979 and internal cash generation should cover debt
service comfortably. Fixed assets have been revalued in some cities as
recommended by the National Planning Office, and in others according to



- 23 -
replacement value calculated by management consultants. Therefore, the fi-
nancial rates of return are not readily comparable. Valuations should be
reviewed at least annually and tariffs adjusted promptly as necessary. Assets
which have not been properly revalued by the empresas will be revalued within
six months of signing the subsidiary loan; valuations should also be reviewed
annually and will appear in the Balance Sheets. Provision for both measures
will be included in the subsidiary loan agreements. Annex 12 gives the
method of calculating rates of return and the operating ratio.
6.24      Telephone services would continue to provide the empresas with
a high level of income, enabling them to maintain a minimum average of five
telephones per 100 inhabitants, and in Pereira and Armenia to meet their
target ratio of seven.
6.25      Armenia and Pereira will not make new investments in generating
stations since additional power demands will be met by purchasing in bulk.
Investments in new and improved distribution systems will be substantial,
however, and should enable the empresas to reduce the present high losses.
6.26      The slaughterhouse, market and street-cleaning services would
have operating ratios of about 80% by 1979. However, it is not expected
that these services will ever be managed at a high level of profitability.
Risks
6.27      The probability that each of the projects will achieve its institu-
tional, financial, and operational objectives has been determined on a sub-
jective basis by assessing the risks associated with general, financial, and
operational management; public resistance to tariff increases; and the present
financial position. These assessments were made in the context of the proj-
ect themselves and the Bank's experience in earlier water supply projects in
Colombia. The probability of successful completion of all objectives was
then concluded from a review of the individual parameters (Annex 13). As
illustration, this method would have rated the probability of achievement of
all project objectives in Bogota as high, in Palmira as medium, and in Cali
as low. (In the case of Cali, a political change in the municipal council
has resulted in a new board and new managers whose administration of that
empresas is causing the Bank concern.) It is noted that achievement of only
some objectives (higher tariffs, improved operations, etc.) would still be a
significant advance and would justify the investment even in the higher risk
projects.
6.28      Armenia.  The Empresas Publicas de Armenia's organization is inade-
quate for its responsibilities. Mereover, low power revenues have jeopar-
dized its overall financial position. A tenacious general manager never-
theless succeeded in 1971 in getting important tariff increases of 100% for
water supply and sewerage, and has hired qualified management consultants
for a complete reorganization. Substantial increases in the power tariff
would be necessary for the financial viability of the company (paragraph 6.19).
The probability of achievement of all objectives of the project is medium.



- 24 -
6.29      Manizales.  The Empresas Publicas de Manizales has a competent
general manager and its financial position is good. Some improvements are
necessary in its management information system, particularly in cost and
general accountancy, and a financial manager should be appointed. Provided
that the recommendations of the management consultants are implemented and
the proposed tariff increases are applied, the Empresas should be able to
meet its managerial and financial obligations. The probability of achieve-
ment of all objectives of the project is medium.
6.30      Neiva.  The Empresas Publicas de Neiva requires higher tariffs for
water supply and sewerage, and some administrative reorganization. It has a
good general manager and an adequate financial assistant. No major financial
problems are expected, provided the Empresas' debt service to INSFOPAL
(Col$16 million) is postponed until 1975 and the debt to the municipality
(Col$1.8 million) cancelled. The probability of achievement cf all objectives
of the project is medium.
6.31      Pereira.  The Empresas Publicas de Pereira has a young, competent
general manager and a highly qualified financial manager. The empresas has
recently been reorganized to adapt to its well-studied and well-established
expansion program. The financial position of the Empresas is sound. Although
tariff increases will be necessary in all the services in 1972 or 1973, no
major financial problems are likely to develop in the future.  The probabi-
lity of achievement of all objectives of the project is high.
6.32      Tulua.  The financial soundness of the Empresas Municipales de
Tulua has been maintained by its telephone revenues and adequate management.
The poor financial results of water and sewerage services will improve when
the tariff increases approved in August 1971 become fully effective. Never-
theless, their progressive application and the increases required subsequently
are expected to be resisted strongly by the city's population. The proba-
bility of achievement of all project objectives is medium.
6.33      Buenaventura.  The Acuavalle which has taken over the water system
of Buenaventura is directed by a capable manager, who has recently appointed
qualified staff for Buenaventura. The present unsatisfactory financial
position of Buenaventura, the difficulties of administering and financing
the 31 small water systems which Acuavalle operates, the large number of
illegal connections in the city, and the strong resistance to tariff in-
creases expected from customers, all make the probability of achievement of
all project objectives very low.
6.34      Santa Marta.  The financial and technical operations of both
Santa Marta and Acuadelma have been unsatisfactory. There is some hope
that the new manager of Santa Marta and the stimulus of the proposed loan
will achieve an adequate financial basis for further expansion.



- 25 -
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(i) Implementation of the general management assistance
to INSFOPAL will be reviewed periodically with the
Bank (3.04).
(ii)  Consultants acceptable to the Bank will continue to be
employed to advise the External Credit Office (3.10);
(iii) The program of management assistance and the provision of
assistance to the beneficiaries will be carried out by the
External Credit Office in an adequate manner (3.20);
(iv)  The accounts of the External Credit Office will be audited
by independent accountants (6.08);
(v) INSFOPAL will take all action to apply for or support
the water supply and sewerage tariff applications of the
Santa Marta and Buenaventura beneficiaries (6.15).
7.02      In addition to specific conditions set out in the Recommendations
in each of the reports in Volume 2, it was agreed during negotiations that
each subsidiary loan agreement will provide for the following:
(i) employment of competent consultants in administration,
finance, and engineering as required by INSFOPAL (3.20);
(ii)  employment of competent engineers for design, bidding
and supervision of construction (4.22);
(iii) employment of independent accountants for audit (6.08);
(iv)  initial tariff increases as a condition of effectiveness
of the subsidiary loan agreement and the maintenance of
adequate tariffs to meet specified rates of return or
operating ratios and an annual review of water supply and
sewerage, telephone and electricity tariffs and prompt
tariff applications and implementation as required (6.13);
(v) each beneficiary will prepare a five-year investment plan
for each of its services as a condition of effectiveness
of the subsidiary loan agreement, and will agree to revise
that plan at least annually (6.14);
(vi)  reservation of funds generated by water supply and sewerage
services, for the exclusive use of those services during
construction of the project (6.22); valuation within 6
months of signing the subsidiary loan agreement of improperly
reached assets on which a rate of return applies; and



- 26 -
(vii) revaluation annually, in a manner acceptable to the Bank,
of fixed assets on which a rate of return is required
(6.23).
7.03      During negotiations, the Government gave the following assurances:
(i) National loan funds will be made available in accordance
with an acceptable schedule and additional funds will be
made available as required should the beneficiaries be
unable to do so (4.18 and 6.12);
(ii) All tariff applications made in conformance with the
Loan Agreement will be approved promptly (6.16).
7.04      A condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan is the provision
of national funds to INSFOPAL for 1972 and inclusion of the amounts for 1973
in the budget for that year (6.12).
7.05      With the assurances indicated above, and those indicated in the
Recommendations in the report on each project in Volume 2, the seven projects
constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$9.1 million for a term of
25 years including a 4-year grace period.
July 31, 1972



ANNEX 1
COLOMBIA
MEDIUM SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECTS
BANK LOANS MADE TO COLOMBIAN
CITIES FOR WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
Amount of                                             Population of
Loan                                                City Served
US$ Million                                              by Borrower
Loan Number       Equivalent        Date of Loan           Borrower        - Millions
536-CO                14                1968         Empresa de Acueducto        2.5
y Alcantarillado
de Bogota
741-Co                88                1971                Ditto              Ditto
682-CO                18.5              1970         Establecimiento            0.92
Publico Empresas        (1970)
Municipales de Cali
738-C0                 2                1971         Empresas Publicas          0.16
Municipales de
Palmira






COLHBIA
ME01U1 SIZE CITIES WATm SUPPLY AND SESmRAOE PROJEETS
PIRJECTS COSTS
lAight
Construction                        Technical                       Ehgineering                           Price                             Total                   of Each City
Sub-Total                       Gontinganci-                   ad Adlnitatio                        Conting Tnoias                        Cost                    in Total Coat
Local   Foreign ~ToUta       Local   Freign    Total           Local   Foreign    Total          Lo0cal   Foreign    Total         Local   Foreign   Tfotal
ARMENIA
In Cnl$ million            23.6     L.1        27.7          5.s       o.5        5.1,         2.3       0.7       3.0            6.o      1.5        7.5         36.8       6.8       43.6         (
In US$ million              1.2     0.2         1.4          0.3        -         0.3          0.1        -        0.1            -                    '           1.6       0.2        1.8         (  11.8%
% Local - Foreign          85.2    14.8       100.0         90.?       c.3      100.0         76.7      23.3     100.0           80       20        100.0         84.4      15.6      100.0
MANIZALES
In Col$ million            52.1      3.4       55.5         13.2       0.R       14.1          6.3        -        6.3           21.8      2.0       23.8          93.4      6.3       99.7
In US$ million              2.5     0.2         2.7          0.7      0.1         o.8          0.3        -        0.3            0.1       -         0.1          3.6       0.3        3.9         (  26.2%
% Local - Foreign          c3.c      6.1      100.0         93.6       6.11     100.0        100.0        -       100.0          91.6       8.5     100.0          93.7      6.3      100.0
NEIVA
In Gol$ million            25.7      3.3       20.0          5.5       0.7        6.2          2.8        -        2.8            7.7      0.9        8.6         41.7       4.9       46.6
In US$ million              1.2     0.2         1.)a         0.1        -         0.3          0.1        -        0.1            0.1       -         0.1          1.7       o.2        1.9         (  12.6%
8 Local - Foreign          88.6    11.4       100.0         88.7      11.'      100.0        100.0        -      100.0           89.5     10.5      100.0          89.5     1O.5      100.0
PEREIRA
In Col$ million            37.8    1L.8        52.6          7.6       1.7        9.3          6.1       1.0        7.1          15.3       7.2      22.5          66.8     24.7       91.5
In US$ million              1.9      0.7        2.6          0.4       0.1        0.5          0.3       0.1       0.4             -       0.1        0.1           2.6      1.0        3.6          (  24.6%
% Local - Foreign          71.c    28.1       lOO.0         81.7      18.3      100.0         85.9      15.1     100.0           68.o     32.0      100.0          73.0     27.0      100.0
TUDJA
In Col$ million            26.0      1.5       30.5          5.1       o.c        6.2          2.6       0.2        2.8           9.5       2.1     l.5           43.3      7.7       51.0
In US$ million              1.2      0.3        1.5           .,        -         0.3          0.1        -        0.1            0.1        -        0.1           1 7      0.         2.0          (  13.8%
% Local - Foreign          85.r    15.o       l00.r         85.5      14.5      100.0         52.9       7.1      100.0          81.7      18.3     100.0          84.9     15.1      100.0
BU 97AV aTURA
In Coll million            13.       1.5       1L.'          2.7       0.2        2.e          1.5        -         1.5           3.0      0.4        3.4          20.6       2.1      22.7
In 5S$ million              U.7      (.1        0.3          0.1        -         0.1          0.1        -        0.1             -         -         -            0.9      0.1        1.0          (   6.2%
% Local - Foreign          89.9    10.1       101.0          3.1       i.e      100.0        100.0        -      100.0           88.2     11.8      100.0          90.7      9.3      100.0
SANTA MARTA
In Col$ million             5.4      2.2       11.6          1.0       0.2        2.1          1.1       0.1        1.2           2.4      o.8        3.2          15.8      3.3       18.1
In US$ million              0.5      0,2        o.6          0.1        -         0.1          0.1        -         0.1            -         -         -            0.6      0.2        o.8          (   4.8
% Local - Foreign          81.0    19.0       100.0         90.5       9.5      100.0         91.7       8.3      100.0          75.0      25.0     100.0          81.8     18.2      100.0          (
In Col$ million           188.c    33.8       221.8         51.1       5.1       46.2         22.7       2.0       24.7          65.6      14.9      80.5         317.5      55.8     373.2          (
In US$ million              9.1      1.9       11.0          2.2       0.2        2.h          1.1       0.1        1.2           0.3       0.1       0.4          12.7       2.3      15.0             1 ioo.o%
% Local - Foreign          84.8    15.2       100.0         80.3      11.0      100.0         91.9       8.1      100.0          81.5      18.5     0l.o          85.0      15.o     100.0



COIftIA
MEDIUM SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SlERAOGE PROJECTS
ANNUAL PROJECT INVEEThWS
(Col$ million)
ARMENIA          MANIZALES            NEIVA            PEREIRA            TULUA            BUENAVENTURA           SANTA MARTA             7OTAL            %
SUBTC TAL CONSTRUCTION
1S72                             5.2                 5.3               4.2               6.o               -                   5.o                    3.8                 29.5
1973                            10.0                18.2              17.9              14.3             16.2                  9.9                    3.8                  90.3
1974                            12.5                16.6               6.9              23.9             10.5                   -                     4.0                 714.4
1975                       T                        15.4                 -               8.4              3.8                                                             27.6
Total   ~77                   555                 9.               52.6                                 Thr                                        ___              5
Percent of the Total Sub-Project Cost          63.5                 55.7             62.0               57.5             59.8                    65.5                   64.1
TEINICAL CONTINCENCTES
1972                             0.9                 1.3               0.7               0.9               -                   0.9                    0.8                  5.5
1973                             2.0                 4.6               4.2               3.1              3.0                  2.0                    0.8                 19.7
1974                             2.5                 4.3                1.3               3.8             2.4                   -                     0.5                 14.8
1975                        Tt3.l                                        -               1.5              0.8                                          -                   6.2
Total     3l1T629362                                                                                      29_2.75
Percent of the Total Sub-Project Cost           12.4                14.1             13.2               10.2             12.2                    12.8                   11.6
ENGINEERING AND ADhINISTRATTON
1972                             0.7                 0.6                0.3              0.6               -                   0.5                    0.5                   3.2
1973                             1.3                 2.0                1.8              2.7              1.4                  1.0                    0.5                 10.7
1974                             1.0                 1.8                0.7               3.2             1.0                   -                     0.2                   7.9
1975                              -                  1.9                 -               o.6              0.4                   -                      -                    2.9
Total      T6. --                                                  -_           -                                                1.2                 2 2.7         ___
Percent of the Total Sib-Project Cost            6.9                  6.3             6.0                7.8              5.5                     6.6                    6.6
PRCCE CONTINYGENCIE
1972                             1.0                 0.7                0.7               0.9              -                   1.1                     0.8                  5.2
1973                             2.5                 5.4                4.9               4.2             4.3                   2.3                    1.1                 24.7
1974                             4.0                 7.7                3.0              12.2              4.8                  -                      1.3                 33.0
1975                              -                 10.0                 -               5.2              2.4                   -                       -                  17.6
Total                         23.                 5.6              25               !1;3                 73.4                    32        1    .
Percent of the Total Sub-Project Cost           17.2                 23.9            18.8               24.5             22.5                    15.1                   17.7
1972                             7.8                 7.9                5.9               8.4              -                   7.5                     c,9                 43.5           11.6     A
1973                            15.8                30.2               28.8              24.3             24.9                 15.2                    6.2                145.2           39.0
1974                            20.0                30.4               11.9              43.1             18.7                   -                     6.a                130.2           34.9     o
1975                            _                   31.2                 -               15.7              7.4                   -                      -                  54.3           14.
Total        . 69.7                              46.6              91.5             510                   _ 71.                                     373.2         _100        r
Total Percent of the Total Sub-Project         100.0                100.0           100.0              100.0            100.0                   100.0                   100.0                             a
-                           -                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cs



COLOMBIA
MEDt UM SIZE CITIFM WATIR SUPPLY AND SEWERAM3 PROJECT'S
ESTIMETED CUMUIATIVE QULRTIRLY M1SBURSED(TS AND PERCENTAGE OF PROJECT 0OSTI/
FD&N CED BY IRD
(US$ 000 equivalent)
IBRD FISCAL YEAR                                                                                                                    SANTA          SUB-
AND QUARTER                                ARMENIA        MANIZAIES       NEIVA      PEREIRA       IULUA       BUEN VENTIJRA      MARTA         TOTAL            TNSFOPAL         TOTAL
----------------------------------------  -dmulative disbursement at end of quuretre---------r------------------- --
1972/73
2nd quarter                                  130            130            -           203           -              86             100           649                 -             649
3rd quarter                                  230            21,0          143          260           -             185             188          1246                130           1376
4th quarter                                  330            390           301          355          188            281             238          2083                130           2213
1973/74
1st quarter                                   W30           540           461          445          356            379             288          2899                270           3169
2nd quarter                                  540            690           621          550          460            512             331          3704                330           4034
3rd quarter                                  650            840           803          720          566            534             371          4484                490           4974
4th quarter                                  760           1000          1067         1340          669            534             411          5781                490           6271
1974/75
1st quarter                                  870           1180          1067         1460          772            534             431          6314                510           6824  
2nd quarter                                  980           1360          1067         1580          877            534             431          6829                510           7339  
3rd quarter                                 1010           1540          1067         1710          982            5324            431          7274                5240          7814
4th quarter                                 1010           1720          1067         1800         1035            534             431          7597                540           8137      ,
1975/76
1st quarter                                 1010           1870          1067         1930         1089            534             431          7931                540           8471      
2nd quarter                                 1010           2010          1067         2060         1157            534             431          8269                 540           8809
3rd quarter                                 1010           2220          1067         2137jV       1161            534             431          8560                 540           9100
l/  Assuming the subsidiary loan agreements are effective by September 30, 1972.
7/  Arbitrarily recdaced by $3,000 to recognize  total of $9,100,000.



COLCMBTh
MEDIUM SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SENWES3E PROJECTS
BANIK LOAN COMPONENTS
- Disbursemeat of Bank Loan----------------
1                                                           Interest &           Percentage
Estimated                   Foreign              Local                commitment           of local
Cost of       Amount of     exchange             currency             charges during       currency cost
Project       Bank loan     costs                costs                construction         of project fi-
US$ million   US$ million   US$ million    L    US$ million    %    US$ million        %   nanced by Bank
Anmenia         1.80          1.01          0.26       28         0.63       62       0.12         12        41
Manizales       3.90          2.22          0.27       12         1.65       74       0.30         14        45
Neiva           1.94          1.07          0.21       20         0.77       72       0.09          8        44
Pereira         3.62          2.14          0.99       46         o.81       38       0.34         16        31
Tulua           2.03          1.16          0.28       24         0.71       61       0.17         15        40
Bienaventura    0.99          0.53          0.09       17         0.39       74       0.05          9        43
Santa Marta     0.77          0.43          0.17       40        0.20        47      0o.6         14         33
INSFOPAL        0.48          0.54          0.48        89         -          -       0.06         11         -b
TOTAL          15.53          9.10          275                   5.16                1.19                            v
Ca
j  Before interest dcuring construction.



COLOHBIA
IEDIDM SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SE1A0E PROJECTS
INSTIrfO DE FOlNCNrO NNIOIIAL
EXTERNAL CREDIT OFFICE
CASH FMW  STATEhNTS
Total
1972                    19                       1974                     1975                     1976                      1972-1976
Rate of Exchange                                Ga    ,[. )              Co    38 A )                 (al) CU bl (S                                        0)G$
(million)  (million)    (million)  (million)    (million)  (million)    (million)  (million) (million)  (million)    (million)  (million)   %
APPLICATIONS
Expenditure on Project (Consultants):
Assistance to External Credit Office                  1.5        0.07          2.0        0.08         2.2         0.09                       -          -                        5.7        0.24      24
General Assistance to ITSFOIAL                        1.2        o.06          2.4        0.10         1.8         0.07         0.3        0.01           -          -            5.7        0.24      24
Interest during Construction                          0.2         -           0.5         0.02         o.6        0.02          0.7        0.02           -          -            2,0        0.06       7
Total                                                   .7                                   0     _                                                                             13.
Increase (decrease) in Working Capital                    0.2        0.01          2.2        0.09         4.3         0.15         3-9        0.13          2.0        0.07         12.6        0.45    145
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                               3.1        0.14         7.1         0.29         8.9        0.33         14.9        0.16          2.0        0._7         26.0        0.99    1O0
SOllRES
Capital Contributionsi/                                   2.0        0.13         3.2         0.13         3.6        01.      4      4.      0.14          4.5        0.16         18.2        0.70      70
Internal Cash Generation:
Interest on National Loans (100")                     0.l        0.02          5.c        0.22        10.7         0.40         9.7        0.33          7.0         0.24        33.4        1.21    122
Less: Externa Credit Offie  running cost(2.')      (0-13)       (3.2)       (0.13)       (3.6)      (O.1)         (4.0)      (-14)         (4-5)      (0.16)       (18.2)      (0.70)   (70)
Less: External Credit office running cost                                                             _____
Total Internal Cash Generation                         O.F                                                                                                                                    T 0r.7  0.40  07  33.4  122
Less: Debt Service
Interest on National Loans l60%)                      0,3        0.01          3.3        0.13         6.4         0.25         5.8         0.20         4.2         0.14        20.0         0.73     74
Interest on I.B.R.D. Loan2'                            -          -             -          -            -                        -           -           o.6         0.02         o.6         0.02      2
Amortization I.B R.D. LoanV                            - 2                                 -            -           -            -           -           0.2         0.01         0.2        0.01       1
Total Debt Service                                    0.3           1          3.3        0.13     6.4             0.25          5-         0.20 5-                 0.17          0.7  
Net Internal Cash Generation                          F.2        00                        .09                       5                      0.13           W0.07 2                            0.45
Borrowings
I.B.R.D. Loan                                         2,9        0.13          4.9        0.20         4.6         0.18         1.0         0.03                                 13.4         0.54     55
TOTAL SOURCES                                   3.1        o.14          7.1        0.29         8.9         0.33         4.9         0.16         2.0         0.07        26.o         0.99    loo
1/ From INUFOPAL budget,equIvalmt to External Credit Office running costs.
2/ ECO potion of I.B.R.D. loan,remaining pcrtion covered directly out of INSFOPAL's Budget



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2 pages
COLCKBIA
MEDIUM SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECTS
CALCULATION OF NET INTERNAL
CASH GENERATION OF
INSFOPALIS
EXTERNAL CREDIT OFFICE
1.        Net internal cash generation would be the difference between
total internal cash generation and debt service.
2.        Total internal cash generation would be the total interest on
national loans paid by the beneficiaries to INSFOPAL, plus a portion of
INSFOPAL's budget consisting of
(i) during construction, the interest on that portion
of the Bank loan financing managerial assistance
to INSFOPAL,
(ii) after construction, the debt service of the same
portion of the Bank loan, less the running costs
of the External Credit Office.
3.        Debt service would include 60% of the interest on national
loans paid by the beneficiaries to INSFOPAL, which would go into a fund
for further relending in the sector, and the debt service on INSFOPAL's
portion of the Bank loan which would be covered by the remaining 40% of
the interest on national loans.



ANNX 5
COIOMBIA
MEDIUM SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEW.ERAGE PROJECTS
POPULATION SERVED AND 1WLATER USED
Percentage of po-    rjross
----Population-----------    pulation served by   consumption  Unaccounted fo:
water supply             1/c/d        water %
1972   1980    Growth %       1972      1980             1980       1972       198(
Armenia   170,000  260,000    5            79        88               290       46          25
Manizales 300,000  480,000    6            80        90               25C0      45          20
Neiva     130,000  210,000    6            73        90               250       34          20
Pereira   240,00  350,000    5            80        90               o(        30          25
Tulua      80,000  130,000    5            74        90               250       30          20
%uena-
ventura   100,000  1140,00     5           50        75               290       52          25
Santa-
Marta      140,000 210,000    5            72        87               250       53          no



COLOMBIA
M" ,AX .Zs A        WA&T  8 iPLY AID BOUARG FROJECTS
PAST FINAYCIAL INDICATOS (CONSOLIDATED)
INTERNAL             DEBT SERVICE
OPERATING RATIO           TET INCOME           CASH GENERATION            COVERAGE              DEBT AS % OF-              CURREET             ACCUMULATED CASH
(8fF)             (Col$ million)         (Col  million)               (%)               CAPITALIZATION               RATIO               AT END OF YEAR
199  1970  1971       1  9 1970  1971         1979  1970  1971        1969  1970  1971        1969  1970  1971        1969  1970  1971        1969  1970  1971
ARMENIA                 84    84    86         2.9   3.2   4.o         3.6   4.2   4.8         4.0   2.8   2.1          12    10     6         0.6   o.8   0.9         0.5   o.6   1.6
MANIZALES               72    80    67         0.4  (0.8) (1.1)        7.2   5.8  11.2         1.0   1.2   1.1          37    27    17         2.1   1.0   0.6         6.9   3.8   3.7
NEIVA                   76    75    70         1.7   1.9   1.3         2.1   2.4   3.2        2.1   1.9   2.5           10     4    27         0.3   0.3   0.5         0.0   0.4   1.3
PEREIRA                 (0   68    78          8.4  11.9   3.2        11.3  15.1  11.3         4.7   4.6   3.3           7     5     8         3.3   3.3   2.2         4.0   7.2   1.4
TlLlA                   72    80    77         o.6   0.3   0.0         1.2   1.0   1.6         2.0   2.0   1.8          -      3     3         2.8   9.6   3.5         0.4   1.0   1.4
P,UENAVENI73RA          -    111   133          -    0.2  (0.3)         -   (0-1) (0.3)         2/ ,/   ;/              _     _     _           i/    i/    i/           /   o.4  o0o
SARiTA MARTA           125   102    89        (2.0) (1.3) (1.5)       (0.3)  0.4   0.7          i/    /    i/           -     -     -           i/    i/    /         (3.5) (0.3)  1.0
i/  No debt service requirements or debt service absorbed by ACUAS
Not available



COLOMBIA
MEDIUM SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECTS
DISTRIBUTION OF REVENUES BY SERVICES IN 1971
Water Supply
And Sewerage           Telephones           Power            Other           Total
ARMENIA                 20%o                  26%                 32%,            22%             0oo%
MANIZALES               36%                   47%                                 17%             100%
NEIVA                   50%                   50%                                  -              lOo%
PEREIRA                 18%                   1 to                46%             17%             100%
TUIUA                   35%                   27%                 -               38%             100%



~~~~~~  ~~~~~MNZL                                   N91                     PmoKIRA                                             80L DUA003171A             SAMOA 1458A              MICK4 0ITI0
APPLOCATIONO 07, FM~
CoPito1 0)E"ndiOoO
!20p.  -t.. On9o.ot                     h 3.6     1.87    53..3    99,7     3.00     71.3   3.6.6      1. ,   78.5    '1.1    1.62    6,, 11                        31     2.         .K     666    11.1        0.77    42.2    1673.2   16.05   65.9       .l.4     0.48    43.8   38.6    15.53   63..0
TNt.r.t  h,-god to CO.E-t-tl.            0.        .2)     6.8    i1.3.      1.73    13.9     I..7     1.17    7.1     17.0   '1.63    12.1        .7    '1.36    014.2     2.0      0.716    5.9       .      0.24    13.16     63.9    9.3.1   .1         2.0      0.06      7.7    65.9      2.4.7   u.s
7th.. Oork.                  ~~~~~~~~21.0    '1.7.  262A,          ..      90       661.                     14.7    1'       1'1.       -                        0'        .21    20.      15.'1    7.63    J1..0     77.1    6.98   M                     -               77.1     2.98
Ot. 7k0.1Tvtet2.l                                       26.        6      0.46     9.0      67.887.3                                                                     7t7               93. I.."  T-                        S1'    06      91.        al       7
(d.  ~    W-i~g  -iW   1.2       .3j    127         I.    2,                         .71.            17.0   '1.0    1.1           .0 32    12,7           2.1      7.17     0.0       .9     '.16      9.0      2.      1. 96    9.2     12.6      8..      617.             2.41       0
700A1 APPLOCO7IONO                                                            1OO230                   _71___                                                            I     I-  =  7.0 7  ET  T02MOIE.                                                      7.90 1     ~       J
2s*72 0F FUND2
I66.r..  7.ah 0...t-tio                 31.6      1.22    30.3    03.2      3.15    59.5    16.0       7.66   27.0    67.6    2.59   416.1    24.1.       0.91    30.7      0.5      0.33    24.9      9.9      0.4.0    23.0   241.3.    9.27   42.6      33.4      1.21.  128.5   214.8   10.lJ8   46.3.
00610)t 00.6-                                                                                     .       -       -         -                            -                    7.2      0.33              2.9i"   0.09       4.7      9.2    0.42    1.6         -       .-                9.2     0.42     I 76
7002 to.                                24.8      1.0      30.9    516.0    2.22    4.1.57   26.6      1.07   46.6     55.3    2.14.    30.3    21.6      1.16   4.2.4    12.4.    '.53    36.4,   1.0.6       0.43      94.5   217.1    16.56   36.3      13.4.    0.53.    51.6   230.5       9.10   38.9
r-p..Ooo. 110.4                                   0.37    13.        --                                         -                -         -       -       --                         .        -                           -      10.4    0.7      1.8        .       -               10.4      0         :
IIatilo.  La.. 7                        1.        0.2    160.    37.5       1.67    26.      15.7      0.68   26.6     30.9    1.23    22.0    20 ,2k'  '1.80    26.0       6.       0.30    20-2      7.0/                      131.7                                          -    131.              22.2
1 ...1                              6      010      0-                          --                       -        .       -        -                                                            3O      7.8          3   M77.      0.73      .1.17.6                                    0.73    3.0
X   9ro.tg                                       -     100    1916-12.                               27lo.           ..2     56    100         98       2.1 13._0.0                                4.        1.80    100.      6.    _           _        -9.                                          .
TOUSMOS61_ 06038                                            __                                                             __                                                                                                        230160           36.0         9__                     3.39106.
1972-I971  for 5r-, 3451,.. 3..a'.tb-, Sf.ot  )45ta
1973-1975 fo. Nlo
21  706. l0  o  9.0  1lijo  V.Mo gi-.  th-4o..g  A-od.1-  Wo C0101.0 .011ion ..otftb.16.1o   by -b-. d.-.lp.-.
3/  Th. '1.153.0 661l1o  710ID 10  .0t pnybl.i.    Co1.6i"a po.. tho. it 0.. t-.td5 A oa t.63001 1-.n
j/  Not i-oldlog So13I.0 6611li. tht1 M11  b. di.b-.d in 1972. befor  hI. oo0r0t~p-i.t



ANNEX 9
COLC4BIA
MEDIUM SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SWERAGE PRO JECTS
WATER SUPPLY AND SNERAGE
TARIFF INCREASES
(Average tariffs give price per cubic meter)
PROPORTION
1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    FOR SEWERAGE
ARMENIA
Average tariffs (Col.$)    0.72    1.30    1.40    1.50    1.60    1.60
Annual Increase(%)           -        81        8       7       7      -         50%
MANIZALES
Average tariffs (Col.$)   0.72      1.13    1.53    1.65    1.65    1.65
Annual Increase (%)         -         57       35       8     -        -         30%
NEIVA
Average tariffs (Col.$)   0.73      1.23    1.40    1.50    1.50    1.50
Annual Increase (%)         -         68      14        7     -        -         30%
PEREIRA
Average tariffs (Col.$)   0.75      1.30    1.45    1.60    1.60    1.60
Annual Increase (,)         -         73      12       10     -        -         25%
TULUA
Average tariffs (Col.$)   0.46      1.00    1.30    1.43    1.57    1.57
Annual Increase (M)         -        117       30      10      10      -         40,
BUENA VENTURA
Average tariffs (Col.$)   0.59      1.20    1.40    1.50    1.60    1.60
Annual Increase (A)         -        103        8       7       7      -          -
SANTA MARTA
Average tariffs (Col.$)   1.10      1.32    1.45    1.45    1.45    1.45
Annual Increase (.)         -         20       10     -       -        -         50%
_/ Average tariffs includes sewerage
2/  Average tariffs do not include sewerage (which is not operated by the Enpresas)
/ Average tariffs do pot include sewerage (which is operated by the Empresas)



COLOMBIA
MEDIUM SIZE CITIlES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECTS
POWER - TELEPHONES AND OTHER SERVICES
TARIFF INCREASES AND FINANCIAL TARGETS
1971        1972         1973         1974         1975         1976
-__-__----_-______--------Percentages - ---____________
ARMENIA
Power:  Annual Tariff Increase                      -            -           76           14            5
Financial Rate of Return                    -            -           6           11           11          11
Telephones:  Annual Tariff Increase                 -            -           17            2           6           -
Financial Rate of Return              20          12           12           12           10          10
Other Services:  Operating Ratio                   90           94           84          78           73          73
IANIZALES
Telephones: Annual Tariff Increase                  -            6            4            -           10          5
Financial Rate of Return               13           6           12            9            9          10
Other Services:  Operating Ratio                  117          106           86           85          85          85
NEIVA
Other Services:  Operating Ratio (%                62           69           68           67          65          65
PEREIRA
Pow,,er:  Annual Tariff Increase                    -            5           15           15           20           7
Financial Rate of Return                    6            -            -           4            9           9
Telephones:  Annual Tariff Increase                 -            -           29            7            8           -
Financial Rate of Return               6           2            6            6            6           6
Other Services:  Operating Ratio                   95           96           86           87           84         83
TJLUA
Telephones:  Annual Rate Increase                   -           11            -           40            -           -
Financial Rate of Return              22           10          11           22           17          13
Other Services:  Operating Ratio                   80           79           79           76           77          78
Notes:  Annual tariff increase in power is per kwh sold.
Annual tariff increaoe in *elepthones is per telephone installed.
Financial Rate of I'eturn:  Income before depreciation divided by average rate base
(fixed assets are revalued each year).
Opera'ing Ratio : Income before depreciation divided by total revenues.



COIOE4BIA
MEDIUM8 SIZE CITIBS WATfER SUPPLY AXED SfDHAQE PRIJiETS
oONSOLIkTED FUnME FINANCECS
INETERNEAL CASD.
OPERATING RATIO                     NE7 INCOME                         GINERATION                                                OEBT AS PERCENT OF CAPI-                                                 ACCUCLAMUTE) CASE
~~ ~~~ma11,on                                   (laiR  mIllion> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEBT S87{VIOE COVERAGE           TALIZATION                       CURARENT RATIO                   AT DM OF TUB
1_12   1___                                                        T97IeF158t7                       197    1(1   396_27              1972   19714   1976   1979        1972   1974.17           99       AI        fj      96 17
AIRIA4IA         88      61      58      56       (1.))  1K,.2   16.8   23.2         I_?   2t.1   36.1   1.6_6         1.6     3.2    2.3    2.6         7      27      26      18        0.7    1.9    2.0       2.8       o.5    5.5   n1.4.  13.1
IWIA211L10S       68      50      52)    06        0.6   i5.5   13.2   22./         12.3   32.8   03.1   58.1.         0.6    0.1    3.1    3.0         18      25      28      19        o.6     2.1     3.0    4..7        1.1    9.8   26.2   55.5
SfV6            68      56      5       5         e8      3.6   (0.2)   3.8         ..2    9.7   12.3   16.3         3.0    2.1    1.7    2.1          32      014     i0      33        o.6     2.2    2.4.   2.7         I.8     7.7   11.0   15.1
PEREIA           76      62      59      59       (0.1.)  iL.6   18.0   24.6        15.2   38.3   51.7   60.4.         3.0    2.C    3.4.   5.o         10      23      21      16        1.7     2.2    3.5    4..7         1.4.   5.4.  23.5   37.1          I
J3711A           '2      52      1.9     17        92       .       .6    0/        2.6    8.C   11.7   1 7. 5        2.0    8.1    2.2    1.6          12      41      U.      37        7.2   10.3    5.5    5.5          4.2    9.0   21.5   26.8
BU004AV 4NTURA    87      5~   01         /       (o.')  (0.2)  (D. P)   1.2         o.      ( 1.2    5.7    '.5        -  ~ .7    2.6    3.0            6       21.    22      26          -       -     7.3    6.0         o.14    0.7    o.6    o.6
00170 91ARTA     77      67      98      55   ~ 1)7)   1.3    4.1    7.0C            1.1    5.8    7.6   11.1           -       -     2.1    3.3        V/      I/      1       1/         1      I        I       i'        1.7    3.8    5.2    9.9
I/Noavial






ANNEX 12
COLCQ4BIA
MEDIUM SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECTS
METHOD OF CALCULATING RATES OF RETURN
AND THE OPERATING RATIO
1.        The annual rates of return will be calculated for each service
of water supply and sewerage, electrical power, and telephones on December
31 of each year with respect to the 12-month period immediately before
and after said date. For this purpose, the rate of return will be cal-
culated by dividing the net income of each service for the 12-month period
considered by the net average value of the fixed assets in service for the
same period.
2.        The net average value of fixed assets means half the sum of
(i) the net value of the fixed assets at the beginning of
the 12-month period, and
(ii) the net value of the fixed assets at the end of the
same period.
3.        The net value of the fixed assets means the gross value (reval-
ued historical costs) of such assets utilized by the respective service
minus accumulated depreciation, both revalued by the application of the
cost of living index for workers in the city or the department prepared
by the Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadistica, or other
equivalent index acceptable to INSFOPAL and the Bank.
4.        Net income is defined as the difference between:
(i)  total operating income of each service (excluding
deposits and contributions for investments), and
(ii) the total of general and maintenance operating costs
(but excluding interest and other charges on debts),
a reasonable provision for doubtful accounts, the
indirect cost of connections and reconnections, taxes
where applicable, a provision for free services given
to the municipality as applicable, and adequate pro-
vision for annual depreciation, calculated on a
straight line basis on revalued and depreciable fixed
assets.
5.        The annual depreciation will be calculated on the average
gross value of the revalued fixed assets at the beginning and the end of
the period under consideration, with average minirmm annual rates of 3Z



- 2 -
for the water supply and sewerage service, 4% for the electrical energy
service, and 5% for the telephone service and various other services,
with a mdnimuia however of 2% for any single class of fixed assets.
6.        The revaluation of the fixed assets, depreciation and external
debt will be accu-lated and included in the general balance sheet of
the kpresas.
7.        The operating ratio is understood to mean the annual total of
operating costs in paragraph 2(ii) above divided by the annual total of
operating income in paragraph 2(i) above, but excluding from costs the
provision for annual depreciation.



OOLOMEEA
MEDIUM SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWEiRE PROJECTS
EVALJATION OF RISK
General             Financial            Management of            Probable Pub-               Present             Probability of
Management          Management           Operations Ca-           lic Acceptance to           Financial           AchievmInt of
Capability          Capability           pability                 Rate Increases              Strengh             all Objectives
ARMENIA            Medium               Low                 Medium                    Medium                   Medium               Medium
MANIZALFS          High                 Medium              Medium                    Medium                   Medium               Medium
NEIVA              Medium               Medium              Low                       Medium                   Medium                Medium
PEREIRA            High                 High                High                      Medium                   High                  High
TULUA              Medium               Medium             Medium                     Low                      Medium               Medium
BUENAVENTURA       Medium               Low                 Low                       Low                      Low                   Low
SANTA MARTA        Low                  Low                 Low                       High                      Low                  Low






COLOMBIA
MEDIUM SIZE CITIES WATER AND SUPPLY PROJECTS
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO MUNICIPAL
ORGANIZATION CHART
National                                                                     Ministry of                                      Ministry of
Planning Office                                                                    Health                                          Finances
U  Board of                                 National Account
3<; -                         -Ditors -                                                      Centrol Office
Legal
Office
U                 ~~~~~Office of
Educatieo                                              eral                                          Planning
Promotion                                          Manager                                          Office
Secretary
Physical
|   g  S                                                                               7    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Planning
3                  ~~~~~General
Seices                                                                                              Financial
l                                                                                      _      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Planning
I       \                                                                               j  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Organization
g  {(Consultant5\                                                                       7   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~& Methods
l  _  ........                         _                                               1      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Budget |
_ E.ternal                         ManagerX                       Technical                     Administrative
Credit Manager   |of Operations   | |Manager                                                        Manager
Consultativ 
Committee    |    ProJects    l           |    ~~~~~Operations &| ;               Projects                 |      Personnel
i        l                 l             | ~~~~~~~~~~Maintenance                                         1
l       i     Planning     l            j  ~~~~~~~~Administration |             & Contracts  |           4      Finance
i             -|    F n~~~~I'ancial                    Tariffs    l I         -      osrcin|-                          netr
|   I                                    I       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~e  Ice
Municipal                                                      l  nsfopal
Empresas                                                          Empresas
World Bank -659912R)






7B                                   7,6                                    2                                     0      
A  r L A  N  r Ic                                     o c E A  N>                                                  ,                     VSU7H AMERC
Barroner III <<,}HO
ATLA5TC         /           t -          /         ',;td                                                v      N
MAGDALENA                                
Mofei \                   Sn   tMrrcRt 
e 6    >    *   >  <  -         N t    di    / I < vlNRTE kXl.                     V  E  N  E  Z  U  E  L  A
41~~ ~   ~~ S      ,                COD                                  SA-NTANDER(
R   (      l oMetemn         6g5 A ~~~N TAN D ER  .j        ,    A  R A U C A                      
<            (t       ~~~~~~~Q..bdo                 t t           fNw5                                               ?f
C H O C''O           P4-    f      0                  ul       B  O Y A C A              O                                     3
                       ' ~~~~~R154RLDA /, CALDAS   4,
g g ; g~~~~CUNDINAMARCA]  b==t
tJ / j<! f //4 ol~~~0BOGOe}1>  tA
S   $5~~~~~ f ~~~ '         (      1   S ~~~~~M             E    T      A               i      ffdfs.s
t<   {,  PoeYnO  S   ' 9       J                         r-~ /                           Mi-,  ra-          
4   N A  R I N O   ^                                             '               V  A  U  PHUISA                        A I NIA
A  _.s -                          -, C AO U C A                                    .- 
I N 0                                                             V0  A  U  P E S
Q                          CCa,<or    <~~~r 
COLOMBIA xvt. r
Medcium Size Cities Water Supply a Sewerage Proes                                      A  M A Z O N A S   $    
PROJECT LOCATIONS                                                                                               I 
Monizeles Proleet Citiesiu 
Lu Elevations obove 1400nce1ers-. 
Doportmtent, lntendencio $& Comnisor(G boundortes                            p    E   R   U                           .
MaitlQn rivgers                                                                                                        |
4I                      KILOifETERa                                                                                       v 
.'plJ/ I/fdf;/.t /J -W6s /Clw, 0! fil                    -AV&
7tB                       ~~            ~~                       ~~~~75P  7T5                           To.I    31
LAPRIL 1972IBD31



