DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1119
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR THE
MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
September 18, 1972
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMNDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR THE
MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal (INSFOPAL) with the
guarantee of the Republic of Colombia for the equivalent of US$9.1 million
to help finance water supply and 8ewerage projects for seven medium-size
cities.  The loan would have a term of 25 years, including 4 years of grace,
with an interest of 7-1/4 percent per annum. The proceeds of the loan would
be relent to six municipal enterprises in Armenia, Pereira, Tulua, Santa
Narta, Manizalez, and Neiva, and to Aquavalle, a regional authority respon-
sible for water supply in Buenaventura. The loan funds would be passed on
by the borrower to the seven beneficiaries mentioned above on the same terms
as the Bank loan.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.        The Bank's most recent economic report (Economic Position and
Prospects of Colombia, R-72-21) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on January 14, 1972. The next Bank mission to assess the Colombian economic
situation is scheduled for October-November of this year.
3.        The Colombian economy grew by 5.2 percent per annum on the average
in the 1960's; from 1968 through 1970 annual growth exceeded 6 percent. In
1971, the growth in gross domestic product declined to an estimated 5.5 percent
largely because an unexpected and sharp decline in coffee prices from mid-1970
through 1971, and unusually heavy and prolonged rainfall--which together
broke the momentum of growth and disrupted development. Although the medium-
term economic outlook is good, with coffee prices moving upwards, Colombia
continues to be confronted by two structural problems--rural poverty and a
high rate of urban unemployment. In addition, Colombia's heavy dependence
on coffee exports--which still account for over 50 percent of total merchandise
exports--has led to frequent balance of payments problems, and has therefore
been an obstacle to economic development.



- 2 -
4.        Concerning unemployment, the rate at which Colombia's labor force is
growing makes the problem especially difficult: for the next 10-15 years the
labor force is projected to grow at 3.5 percent per year, one of the highest
rates in the world. Open unemployment in Bogota reached a peak of 12 percent
in 1967 and has declined since, but it still averaged 8 percent in 1970. If
productivity increases in the future at the same rate as in the past--3.2 percent
per annum--output would have to grow at least by 6.7 percent to absorb the
increment in the labor force. A faster growth rate would be needed to reduce
the backlog of the unemployed, as concluded in recent International Labor
Office and Bank studies.
5.        Since foreign exchange earnings and public revenues still largely
depend on sharply, fluctuating world coffee prices, the authorities recognize
that non-traditional export growth--i.e., all exports except coffee and
petroleum-- is the key to expanding the economy. They have had considerable
success: non-traditional exports rose from US$45 million in 1963 to about
US$300 million in 1971, to represent 40 percent of total merchandise exports.
One of the instruments used to achieve such rapid export growth has been
Colombia's flexible exchange rate system adopted in March 1967, which the
Government plans to continue. Another device providing considerable stimulus
is the Tax Credit Certificate, which raises the effective export exchange rate
by 15 percent over the nominal market rate.
6.        In the years ahead two obstacles to Colombia's growth will be the
fiscal constraint upon public investment and the foreign exchange constraint
on imports. With regard to the fiscal issue, the Government has>made good
progress in increasing the level of public revenues. The foreign exchange
constraint will still be binding for several years, even with a strong export
performance, and the country will need sizable amounts of external assistance.
As confirmed by the Consultative Group for Colombia at its last meeting last
February, Colombia's public sector will need external loan commitments in
1973-75 of about US$400 million per year.
7.        The main sources of external financing for Colombia in the 1963-71
period are shown in Annex II. Thanks to the relatively large assistance
from official development agencies, Colombia's debt structure is favorable;
suppliers' and financial credits account for only one-tenth of the total
medium and long-term debt. This has been an important factor in holding
down the debt servicing burden despite the large capital inflow. Colombia's
long-term public external debt repayable in foreign currency amounted to
US$2,018 million at the end of 1971, US$1,354 million excluding undisbursed
conmitments. Interest and amortization payments came to US$133 million in
1971, representing about 13 percent of goods and services exports, only
slightly higher than the average 1967-70 debt service ratio. This ratio can
be expected to rise gradually during the next several years, but assuming
continued financial assistance on favorable terms it should peak at roughly
20 percent in the early nineteen-eighties. With continued high growth on
the order of seven percent per year, together with further strong expansion
of non-coffee exports and progress toward wider employment opportunities and
an improved distribution of personal income, Colombia should remain credit-
worthy for sizable amounts of external assistance from the Bank and other
members of the Consultative Group.



-3-
8.        Despite recent favorable growth, there remain serious problems in
agriculture. Average per capita income in the rural areas is only half that
in the towns and income distribution is very skewed. This distribution of income
is undoubtedly related to the concentration of land ownership: 1960
agricultural census figures showed that the largest 10 percent of farms
accounted for 81 percent of all farmland. Partial results from the 1970
agricultural census indicate that the distribution of land may have improved
somewhat during the last ten years, but not to any substantial degree.
The Government, through its agrarian reform agency, has made modest progress
in helping small farmers and hitherto landless peasants, but much still
needs to be done to distribute the benefits of agriculture more widely.
9.        As in many other developing countries, there has been a large and
steady migration from its rural areas to the cities, particularly to the
largest urban centers of the country; the urban populatibn now accounts
for about 57 percent of the total, compared with less than 40 percent in
1960. Despite the heavy migration to the cities, the Colombian authorities
are fully aware that a large percentage of the population will continue
to depend on agriculture, and that therefore they must give adequate
attention to economic and social programs for improving living conditions
in rural areas.
10.       Colombia has an urban and regional structure which is unique in
Latin America. The centers of development are widely dispersed throughout
the country because until recently Colombia's difficult geography enforced
the semi-isolation of regions and led to the growth of decentralized urban
centers. In contrast to the monocentric urban structure of many Latin
American countries, Colombia has four major centers (Bogota, Medellin,
Barranquilla, and Cali) of over 500,000 inhabitants each, and 100 urban
centers with over 10,000 inhabitants. There are about 24 cities in Colombia
with a population of between 50,000 and 300,000--termed "medium-size cities".
Because of these characteristics, the Colombian Government considers that
it has the opportunity to build on the existing regional and urban
structure.
11.       Recognizing that the heavy flow of inmmigrants from rural to urban
areas will continue, the Government's aim is to attract these people to
medium-size cities instead of to the already overcrowded metropolitan centers.
The planning authorities are, therefore, seeking to promote social and
economic development in smual and medium-size cities. This involves (a)
programs for improvement of infrastructure, including water supply and
sewerage systems; (b) credit programs for small and medium industries in
the cities; (c) expansion of the Government's low-income housing program,
focussing on low-cost solutions such as sites and services; and (d) improve-
ment of public administration, both local and national, in urban areas.



-4-
12.       As a reflection of its growing concern about the mounting economic
and social pressures in the cities, the Government has recently proposed
guidelines for a revision of its development program, giving increased
emphasis to urban development, to balanced regional growth, and to stimulation
of a pattern of demand which will maximize employment.   The planning
authorities in Colombia also hope a program can be formulated that will better
serve the needs of the lower income groups. One of the principal elements
of this program is to stimulate urban housing. We shall maintain close
contact with the Colombian authorities to adjust our own lending program
to the changes which emerge from the current re-evaluation.
PART II:  BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
13.       The proposed loan, which would be the fifty-first made to Colombia,
would bring the total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$941.6 million
(net of cancellations). Of the foregoing amount, US$759.1 million is now
held by the Bank. IDA has made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways
in Colombia.
14,       Bank disbursements as a percentage of total disbursements by
official lenders to Colombia should peak at about 40 percent in 1973-74 and
then decline. The Bank's share of total debt service is also projected
to peak at about 40 percent in 1974-75 before turning down, and the Bank
Group share of total debt disbursed and outstanding should stay at about
33 percent during the next several years (assuming that Bank lending over
the next few years averages about US$1 20 million per annum).
15.       Historically, the majority of Bank loans to Colombia has been
for electric power and transportation, although beginning in 1966 an
increasing share of the loans has been for agriculture, industry, and
telecommunications, and more recently, for education and water supply.
Disbursements have been completed on twenty-six loans and the one IDA
credit. Of the twenty-four with undisbursed balances, progress on the



majority is satisfactory. IFC has made investment and underwriting commit-
ments in 18 enterprises in Colombia, totalling about US$19.7 million of
which IFC now holds US$10.2 million. Annex I contains a summary statement
Of Bank loans, the IDA credit, and IFC investments as of August 31, 1972, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects with particular reference to
those which are encountering problems in execution and giving rise to delays
in disbursements.
16.       For this fiscal year, we are proceeding with an active lending
program for Colombia. In addition to appraising the Medium-size Cities
Water Supply and Sewerage project, the staff has recently appraised a fifth
development finance companies project, the Guatape II hydroelectric project,
and a sixth railway project. I hope to be able to recommend loans for most,
if not all, of these projects during the next months. In addition, a loan
for presentation in the latter part of fiscal year 1973 for a third education
project is under preparation.
17.       Over the past few years, Bank lending in Colombia has become
increasingly diversified. In earlier years, the Bank focussed primarily
on power and transport. As Bank activities in Colombia expanded and as
the Bank assumed increasing responsibilities as head of the Consultative
Group for Colombia, it has moved increasingly into industry, agriculture,
and the social sectors. In formulating conditions for lending and in
selecting fields ot activity, the Bank has been motivated by the following
principal considerations:  (a) to provide capital for high-priority sectors
where other sources of external finance have been difficult to mobilize;
(b) to assist the Colombians in obtaining capital from other sources on
adequate terms; (c) to contribute to important institution-building
objectives, including the development of an improved fiscal system and
institutions capable of inoreasing publio savings; (d) to give support to
Government programs and projects designed to remove the balanoe of payments
constraint on accelerated economic development; and (e) to associate the
Bank increasingly with the efforts of the Colombian Government to distribute
the benefits of economic progress more widely.
lb.       In accordance with these considerations, we expect over the
next few years to make a substantial contribution to the expansion of
agriculture and industry, with perhaps as much as 60 percent of our total
lending in those two sectors. We would hope that through our lending
in agriculture we shall be able to assist in tackling the problems of the
lower income groups in the rural sector. A major objective in both fields
will be to continue to help remove the balance of payments constraint on
development. We shall be oontinuing with additional projects in water
supply, education, and in other projects involving some urban development--



- 6 -
where we have important institution-building objectives--as well as providing
direct support to Government efforts to provide widening opportunities for
the development of human capacities, and for broadening the geographical
distribution of the benefits of economic growth. While our future lending
for transport and power will be significant, we would hope progressively to
encourage other members of the Consultative Group to assume a growing role
in these fields.
19.       In the past, several Bank loans for electric power, water supply,
transportation, and education have had impact on urban development in Colombia.
Also, as executing agency for a UNDP project on urban development and trans-
port in Bogota, the Bank is cooperating with the Government in developing
criteria for preparation of urban development projects within well-conceived
sector policy objectives. While we hope to become involved further in urban
development, our role will be considerably smaller than in the commodity - produc-
ing sectors. The US Agency for International Development (AID) has become
increasingly involved in a variety of urban development activities through
urban sector loans in Colombia and the IDB is also making loans in this
field.
PART III: WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
20.       Most of the water supply and sewerage systems in Colombia have not
kept pace with the rapid growth of the urban population. This has been
partly due to the inability of most municipalities to generate funds through
adequate tariffs. Even though the growth of the systems has been relatively
rapid during the past six years, one-fourth of the urban population still
does not have direct access to public water supply and sewerage services.
About 50 percent of the urban population has access to sewers and less than
30 percent of the rural population is connected to septic tanks or latrines.
Many systems have deteriorated because of deficient maintenance, and expansion
has left many overloada. Since sewage and industrial wastes are not generally
treated, the receiving bodies of water may become seriously polluted in the
near future, particularly in the highly industrialized areas. In this
connection, as part of the second loan (741-CO) to the Bogota Water Supply
Company, the Bank is providing assistance to study a River Regulation and
Pollution Control Project. As a result of the deficiencies described above,
waterborne diseases in Colombia are the second most frequent causes of
hospitalization and they cause one in eight of all deaths.
21 .      The Colombian water supply and sewerage sector comprises three
major groups: larger cities, of which 21 have organized municipal companies
to provide water supply and sewerage services; cities and towns with over
2,500 inhabitants which have water supply and sewerage systems under the
control of the Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal (INSFOPAL); and
rural communities.with less than 2,500 inhabitants where the Instituto
Nacional para Programas Especiales de Salud (INPES), has embarked on a
program to improve sanitary conditions.



- 7 -
22.       Besides the Empresas, INSFOPAL and INPES, there are regional
authorities and independent municipalities operating in the sector. The
autonomous Regional Corporation of the Bogota Plain, Ubate and Chiquinquira
Valleys (CAR) is a planning and coordinating agency for Greater Bogota,
having jurisdiction in an area of 6,000 sq. km. A second regional system
(Madrid-Mosquera-Funza) is being built. These systems are independent of
INSFOPAL and INPES. The Cauca Valley Authority (CVC) aunplies water to
communities under its jurisdiction.   The Institute for Agrarian
Reform (INCORA) and the Coffee Federation have likewise built small
rural systems in areas of particular interest to them.
23.       The 21 cities with their own municipal companies provide water
supply and sewerage services to about 6 million Colombians. The operating
companies in the two major cities of Colombia--Bogota and Medellin--appear
able to cope to a fair degree with the water supply problems of these
fast-growing urban centers. However, the two next largest cities, Cali
and Barranquilla have serious financial asid administrative problems. The
17 remaining companies serving medium-size cities have experienced difficulties
in providing adequate services.
24.       INSFOPAL provides water supply services to about 3 million people
through 750 separate systems under its control. INPES provides services to
about 2.2 million people in rural commmnities. This institute, created in
1968 is, like INSFOPAL, a dependency of the Ministry of Health.   Its main
activities are rural sanitation involving water supply and sewerage
for communities with less than 2,500 inhabitants, biomedical and epidemio-
logical research and training of professional and auxiliary personnel in the
public health sector. Water supply and sewerage systems are constructed
by departmental branches of INPES, and priority investments depends on local
interest and willingness to contribute labor and materials.
25'.      Colombia's capacity to finance the needed investment in the water
supply and sewerage sector--including the ability to provide local currency
to supplement foreign loans--is closely related to internal cash generation
of the sector. This has been its weak spot: cash generation has been low.
The larger Empresas have been able to generate up to 25 percent of invest-
ment needs, while the smaller ones have used praotically all of their
internally generated resources for administration, operation or maintenance
expenses and for debt service. Some of the Empresas have financed the
expansion of the water supply systems with funds generated from other
services, such as eleotric energy or telephone service; frequently, the
result has been to reduce the investment in theae sectors below priority
needs or to rely on additional assistance from the central government.
26.       In recent years, the Government has become inoreasingly aware of
the need to expand public savings through adequate user charges for the
purpose of accelerating development of the country's public utilities.
By the actions to provide adequate tariffs in the proposed project, the
beneficiary entities in the medium-size cities would be taking a step for-
ward towards achieving financial viability and thus to be able to expand
their systems in the future with increasing amounts of their own resources.



- 8 -
27.       Three major sources of investment financing have been available
to Colombia's water supply and sewerage sector: contributions from the
Government budget, internal cash generations of the companies, and foreign
loans. The Government planning authorities have recently completed a
survey of the investment requirements for the water supply and sewerage
sector through 1980 and have concluded that to meet minimum standards
Colombia will have to allocate the equivalent of about US$70 million per
anmum for water supply and sewerage projects in the next eight years.
This compares with about US$3I million per annum for the 1965-70 period.
28.       The IDB, AID, and the Bank have been the chief sources of external
finance.  IDB made loans totalling US$43.2 million to the sector during
1961-69 for the cities of Medellin, Cartagena, Cucuta, and Cali, and to
INSFOPAL. Following the depletion of the Social Progress Trust Fund, the
IDB made no further loans to INSFOPAL. AID has provided assistance total-
ling over US$13 million for water and sewerage projects and for preinvest-
ment studies leading to projects financed by multilateral and bilateral
credit institutions. The Bank has made four loans for water supply total-
ling US$122 million for the cities of Bogota (two loans), Cali, and Palmira.
29.      The main constraint on the development of the water supply" and
sewerage systems in the medium and smaller size cities has been their
inability of most of them to prepare technically suitable projects and
also inability to raise enough financing from tariffs. Also, overhead
costs of project identification and loan administration were too high in
the case of separate projects for medium size cities.
30.      To help break the financial and technical constraints mentioned
above and to assist Colombia in its efforts to stimulate balanced growth
of water supply and sewerage systems in medium-size cities, the Bank is
proposing to channel the funds from the proposed loan through a single
agency, INSFOPAL, acting as an intermediary between the Bank and the bene-
ficiary cities. The aim is not only to provide funds for priority projects
in medium-size cities, but also to help transform INSFOPAL into a more
efficient agency that will be better able than in the past to plan, identify,
and evaluate projects in the sector. The need to satisfy the urgent water
and sewerage requirements of several million Colombians living in medium-
size cities, and to avoid appraisal and supervision of a great number of
small projects, have both been important considerations in determining
this approach..



- 9 -
PART IV: THE PROJECT
31.       Appraisal of the proposed medium-size cities water supply and
sewerage project was carried out in October and November 1971 and loan
negotiations were held in June 1972. The head of the Colombian delegation
was Mr. Rafael Paredes, Director General of Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal (INSFOPAL); the Government was represented by Mr. Isidro Parra,
Chief of the External Finance Unit of the National Planning Department.
32.       This operation would support the Colombian Government's policy of
raising living standards in medium-size cities and thus divert some of the
rural migration to a large number of medium-size cities instead of encouraging
a further inflow into the largest urban centers such as Bogota and Medellin.
It would also further two of the Bank's objectives in its lending strategy
for Colombia: to help development institutions capable of increasing public
savings--which in the case of the proposed loan would involve introduction
of adequate water supply and sewerage rates; and to associate the Bank with
the Colombian Government's efforts to distribute the benefits of economic
growth more widely.
33.       The proposed loan would be for water supply and sewerage projects
to be executed from 1972 to 1975 in seven cities with populations between
80,000 and 300,000 namely: Armenia, Manizales, Neiva, Pereira, Tulua,
Buenaventura, and Santa Marta (see attached map). The project for Buena-
ventura does not include sewerage works. Out of a number of projects
originally proposed by the Colombian authorities, the seven listed above
were chosen on grounds of technical and financial feasibility as demonstrated
by detailed studies.   A loan and project summary is attached as Annex III to
this report and an appraisal report (PA- 100 )is being circulated separately to
the Executive Directors.
34.       The improved water supply and sewerage services will be provided
in areas predominantely inhabited by lower income groups. The populations
of the seven cities are growing at rates from 5 percent to 6.4 percent
annually, and they will have a combined population of 1.8 million by 1980.
These projects would ensure that a population of 1.6 million would be served
with an adequate supply of wholesome water--that is, about double the population
which has a supply at present. The project should substantially inprove
sanitary conditions in the urban areas affeoted. Also, pollution of streams
in built up areas will be considerably reduced.
35.       The size and content of the seven projects and their financing plans
have been determined by the following two objeotives, first, to service by
1980 an approximately equal percentage of the population of each of the cities;
and, second, to establish in the cities concerned fairly uniform tariffs in
terms of pesos per cubio meter of water no higher than the charges currently



- 10 -
prevailing in the largest cities. The first objective reflects mainly
equity considerations. The second reflects the Government's desire to
increase substantially present subsidized water rates and the judgment
that such increases are feasible politically only if the average consumer
does not pay much more for his water in one city than in another. Both
are consistent with the basic goal of these projects: to provide better
services at reasonable prices in alternative centers of growth. It should
be noted that the water supply conditions in the seven cities do not differ
widely so that following these principles will not lead, over the long run,
to ignoring real cost factors. In the short run, however, the different
sizes of the projects and the variations in the cost of water pr,,oduction,
has led to substantial differences in the financing plans of the various
beneficiaries and also in the projected financial rates of return. The
percentage contributions of the Bank to the total project coats ;are about
the same in all cases; the contributions of the Government were treated
as a residual. It follows that the Central Oovernment's contribution varies
a great deal between the different cities. All these differences are brought
out in Annex III, Table 1.
36.       Each enterprise has a program of tariff increases which will bring
about fairly equal water rates per cubic meter among the cities by the end
of the project period. Most of this equalization is to be achieved during
the first year of the project and this first round of tariff increases has
been proposed as a condition of effectiveness of the subsidiary loans. As
indicated in Annex III, Table 2, the required increases range from 57 to
117 percent over 1971 tariffs, except for Santa Marta where only a 20 percent
increase is necessary. The proposed tariffs are similar to those in the
other cities to which the Bank has lent and, in at least three of the cities--
Manizales, Pereira, and Tulua--the central government and the city authorities
have already approved increases and the new tariffs are being implemented in
steps. In some of the other cities, public resistance to the proposed tariff
increases.can nevertheless be expected and the effectiveness of individual
subsidiary loan agreements may, therefore, be delayed.
37.       Of the seven beneficiaries, five are responsible not only for
water suppLy but also for other public services such as power, telecom-
munications, and slaughterhouses.  In order to ensure the financial viability
of these beneficiaries as a whole, financial targets had to be set also
for these other services so as to ensure that they will be able:to generate
sufficient cash for their own projected expansion programs.
36.       The minimum estimated economic rates of return for the individual
projects are as follows: Armenia, 17 percent; Manizales, 11 percent; Neiva,
10 percent; Pereira, 13 percent; Tulua, 9 percent; Buenaventura, 14 percent;
and Santa Marts, 13 percent.



- 11 -
Benefits were measured by the additional quantities of water provided,
valued at the proposed water supply and sewerage tariffs, after deducting
incremental operating costs due to the project. Variations in the rates
of return are explained by differences in topography, hydrology, existing
facilities, investing phasing and incomes. Not all benefits are captured
by this method, which equates willingness to pay with economic benefits.
Health benefits are examples of benefits which may be understated or
completely omitted by this analysis.
39.       The total cost of tbb'project, plus the coat of managerial assistance
to INSFOPAL, is US$15.5 million equivalent, excluding interest during con-
struction. Local costs are estimated at US$12.7 million and foreign costs
at US$2.8 million.  The US$9.1 million Bank loan would finance one-half of
the cost of construction (US$7.4 million equivalent); the cost of consulting
services for INSFOPAL and the seven beneficiaries assistance (US$0.5 million
equivalent); and interest on the Bank loan during construction (US$1.2 million
equivalent). The local currency expenditures to be financed under the loan
amount to US$5.1 million equivalent. A sunmary of the disbursement schedule
is contained in Annex III. The loan includes retroactive financing after
May 31, 1972 of up to US$150,000 to cover the cost of consultants incurred
prior to the signing of the loan. The balance of the local costs, equivalent
to US$7.6 million, would be provided by Government (the equivalent of about
US$6.8 million) to INSFOPAL and from internal generations of the beneficiary
entities. INSFOPAL would lend the Government contribution to the beneficiaries
and use the repayments for further investment in the sector.
40,       The proposed amount of local cost financing by the Bank is fully
justified since Colombia has a well-conceived development program, but in
spite of its efforts to mobilize domestic resources for its support, still
requires external assistanoe in exoess of the foreign exchange component
of development projecta auitable for external financing.
41.       The loan would be ohanneled to the beneficiaries through the
Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal (INSFOPAL), a national water supply
agency, under subsidiary loan agreements. INSFOPAL was created in 1936
under the Ministry of Public Works. In 1968 it was placed under the
Ministry of Health. The principal functions of INSFOPAL are: (a) to
prepare public investment programs in the water supply and sewerage sector;
(b) to construct water supply and sewerage projeots for communities with
more than 2,500 inhabitants that do not have their own company; (c) to
supervise the construction of projects financed with Government funds;
(d)to establish standards of construction and operation; (e) to submit
applications for tariff inoreasea to the National Public Servioes Tariff
Board for those systems under its jurisdictionj and (f) to operate and
maintain those aystems.



_ 12 -
42.       INSFOPAL operates in over 750 towns with more than 2,500 inhab-
itants, which have no public service corporation, through a variety of
institutions such as departmental water supply corporations called acuas,
departmental offices called direcciones seccionales, and local systems.
In 1970, systems under INSFOPAL's control covered areas having 25 percent
of Colombia's population.
43.       INSFOPAL's resources come principally from Government transfers.
Its investment has averaged the equivalent of about US$7.5 million per year
for the period 1966-71. The Government proposes to step up its contribution
to the equivalent of about US$17 million in 1972 and to about US$20 million
in 1973, as part of its policy to expand INSFOPAL's water supply and
sewerage program for medium-size and small cities. INSFOPAL has received
loan assistancelfrom external lending agencies: the Inter-American Develop-
ment Bank (DB) has lent INSFOPAL a total of US$10.6 million in 1962 for
a large number of its systems, and AID has made available to INSFOPAL peso
proceeds from several program loans during 1960's.
44.       AID has financed a number of feasibility studies for water supply
and sewerage projects for medium-size cities, including those which provided
the basis for the proposed Bank loan recommended in this report. AID is
also planning to help INSFOPAL finance part of its expanded 1972-1973
investment plan. For this purpose it has allocated local currency proceeds
equivalent to US$7 million from a recently-signed sector loan for urban
development to the Colombian Government. Arrangements have been made to
ensure coordination of the AD-financed projects and those to be carried
out with the proposed Bank loan (see paragraph 46 below).
45.       The management of INSFOPAL has been uneven over the years and
its administration and organization poor. To correct this deficiency,
INSFOPAL has recently reached agreement with the Pan American Health Orga-
nization (PAHO) for managerial assistance provided for under the proposed
loan. Further, as part of its plan to work closely with the Bank to improve
its planning, project preparation and implementation of projects, INSFOPAL
has established an External Credit Offioe (ECO) to implement the projects
using both national and foreign resources. This unit would carry out the
responsibilities of INSFOPAL under the proposed loan, inoluding project
supervision and execution, bidding review, data collection, loan withdrawal
applications, and reporting. The External Credit Office has eight profes-
sional staff members, including one project engineer, two engineers in
charge of loan administration, two financial analysts, and one accountant.
ECO will also have a full-time staff member to supervise AD-financed pro-
jects in order to ensure that they meet the projeot criteria of ECO.



- 13 -
ECO's manager reports directly to the Manager of INSFOPAL. It will receive
assistance from consultants in organization, supervision of projects, and
preparation and evaluation of projects.
46.       The impact of the ECO will reaoh far beyond the administration
of the proposed loan since it is expected to spur administrative and tech-
nical improvement in the rest of INSFOPAL. ECO's role and its potential
influence on the whole of INSFOPAL are illustrated by its functions: (A) to
assist the local water supply and sewerage entities in the medium-size cities
in the preparation of projects for foreign financing; (b) to assist the Bank
in the appraisal of projects and gradually to take over this function;
(c) to assist the beneficiaries in the preparation of progress reports and
disbursement requests; (d) to review and approve bidding documents and bid
evaluation; (e) to oversee loan conditions; (f) to establish uniform
administrative procedures for programs of construction and cost accounting;
(g) to coordinate and promote training programs; and (h) to coordinate
joint purchases when feasible. Further, all of INSFOPAL's projects
partially financed by the AID sector loan will have to meet the technical,
administrative, and financial standards of the ECO. The Bank would approve
these standards and thus ensure that both the AID-financed projects and
those financed by the IHRD will have the same institutional impact.
47.       Organization and management in most of the entities responsible
for water supply and sewerage for the beneficiary cities are weak, and rates
charged for services have been inadequate. (A summary of the management and
financial status for each of the seven entities benefitting under the pro-'
ject is shown in Annex III). To remedy the administrative and organizational
deficiencies of the beneficiary entities, technical assistance will be pro-
vided through consultants whose services are called for under the proposed
project. Similar assistance will be provided to improve the empresas'
financial and technical capabilities.
hA.       The proposed loan would help finance the costs of civil works,
imported equipment, and consulting services. International competitive
bidding procedures will be followed in selecting contracts for civil works
and equipment purchases. Foreign suppliers are expected to win contracts
for large valves and piping. All civil works contracts, however, are
expected to go to local firms. For the purpose of evaluating bids, a
15 percent preference would be allowed for equipment manufactured in
Colombia, except for pipes for which Colombian suppliers have a substantial
local advantage and are able to compete without preferential terms. The
beneficiaries are exempt from import duties and the bidding will not take
-into aooount regional preferenoes.
49.       Colombian and foreign consultants will be retained for the final
design and construction of the Armenia, Manizales, Neiva, Pereira, and Tulua
projects. In the case of the Buenaventura and the Santa Marta Projects
either INSFOPAL's staff or consultants will supervise the final design and
construction.



- 14 -
50.       Given the involvement of seven separate water supply and sewerage
systems in the proposed project, more than the normal amount of project
supervision will be required. For this reason, and since four other Bank
loans for the sector are still in the implementation stage, we plan to
station an experienced water supply specialist in Colombia as part of our
resident representative office in that country to oversee the projects on
a full-time basis.
PART V: L-EAL INSTRUNENTS AND AUTHCMITY
51.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Instituto Nacional
de Fomento Municipal and the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic
of Colombia and the Bank, as well as the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the
text of a Resolution approving the proposed loan, are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
52.       The draft Agreements contain covenants normally included in agree-
ments for public utilities projects. Attention ie drawn to the following
provisions: (a) Section 9.01 of the draft Loan Agreement establishes as a
condition to effectiveness of the Loan Agreement that INSFOPAL shall have
received the Government contribution required for the project in 1972 and
that the national budget of the Government for the fiscal year 1973 sub-
mitted to the National Congress provide for the Government funds to be
transferred to INSFOPAL for the project during that year. (b) Paragraph
3(c) of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement provides as special conditions
of withdrawal of the proceeds of the loan for use by each Empresa the adoption
by the corresponding Empresa of a five-year investment plan and the execution
and delivery of its .Subsidiary Loan Agreement with INSFOPAL.
53.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
54.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
September 18, 1972



ANNEX I
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of August 31, 1972)
US$ Million
Loan                                                              Amount (less cancellationL
Number   Year    Borrower                           Purpose         Bank    IDA    Undisbursec
Fully disbursed loans and credits                 381.1   19.5
369     1964    Empresas ?ablicas de Medellin      Power           39.0               1.2
499     1967  Empresa Nac. de Telecomwicaciones CommunicatLias     16.0                o.8
502     1967    Instituto Colombiano de la
Reforma Agraria                  Irrigation       9.0               4.5
534     1968    Banco de la Repfiblica             Industry        12.5                0.5
536     1968    Empresa de Acueducto y Alcanta-    Water
rillado de Bogota                 Supply         14.0               1.7
537     1968    Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogot&                        Power           18.o                3.1
550     1968    Colombia                           Roads            17.2               2.0
551     1968    Ferrocarriles Nacionales           Railways         12.4               0.1
552     1968    Colombia                           Education         7.6               2.3
575     1968    Interconexion Electrica, S.A.      Power            18.o               8.o
624     1969    Colombia                           Agriculture      17.0              14.4
625     1969    Banco de la Repfiblica             Industry         25.0               3.5
651     1969    Colombia                           Agriculture      18.3              16.7
679     1970    Colombia                           Education        6.5                5.2
680     1970    Colombia                           Roads            32.0              17.3
681     1970    Interconexion Electrica, S.A.      Power            52.3              37.1
682     1970    Empresas Municipales de Cali       Water Supply     18.5              16.0
738     1971    Empresas Municipales de Palmira    Water Supply      2.0               2.0
739     1971    Colombia                           Agriculture      8.1                7.6
740     1971    Empresa Nacional de Telecomuni-    Communica-
caciones                           tions         15.0              14.7
741     1971    Empresa de Acueducto y             Water
Alcantarillado de Bogota          Supply         88.o               83.5
742     1971    Banco de la Rep6iblica             Industry        40.0               26.0
842     1972    Colombia                           Industry        60.0               60.0
8491/   1972    Instituto Colombiano de la                         927.5            328.2
Reforma Agraria                  Irrigation       5.0               5.0
333.2
Total                                             932.5   19.5
Of which has been repaid                        170.7    0.2
Total now outstanding                             761.8   19.3
Exchange adjustment                                      1.7.
Amount sold                          20.2
Of which has been repaid           17.5            2.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA                    759.1   21.0
Total undisbursed                                 333.2             333.2
1/ Signed but not yet effective.



ANNEX I
Page 2
B. STATEMENT.OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As at August 31, 1972)
Amount in US$ million
Year       Obligor                        Type of Business    Loan    Equity   Total
1959         Laminas del Caribe, S.A.       Giber-board         0.50       -      0.50
1960 -1965   Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                   Food products       1.98     o.o8     2.06
1961         Envases Colombianos, S.A.      Metal cans          0.70       -      0.70
1961-1968    Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                  Home furniture      o.o8     0.09     0.17
1961         Electromanufacturas, S.A.      Electrical
equipment          0.50       -      0.50
1962         Corporaci6n Financiera         Development
Colombiania                   financing            -      2.02     2.02
1962-1963    Corporaci6n Financiera         Development
Nacional-                     financing            -      2.04     2.04
1963-1967-   Compaflia Cqlombiana de
1968-1969     Tejidos, S.A.                Textiles            1.86     0.27     2.13
1964-1970    Corporacion Financiera de      Development
Caldas                        financing            -      O.81    o.81
1964-1968    Forjas de Colombia, S.A.       Steel forging                1.27     1.27
1966         Almacenes Generales de
Deposito &nta F6, S.A.        Warehousing         1.00       -      1.00
1966         Industria Ganadera Colom-
biana, S.A.                  Livestock           1.00     0.58     1.58
1967-1970    ENKA de Colombia, S.A.         Textiles            1.00     1.65     2.65
1969         Compafiia de Desarrollo de
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
Hoturismo                    Tourism               -      0.01.    0.01
1969         Corporacion Financiera del     Development
Norte                         financing            -      0.45     0.45
1969         Corporaci6n Financiera del     Development
Valle                         financing            -      0.43    0.43
1970         Promotora de Hoteles de
Turismo Medellin, S.A.       Tourism             0.23     0.11     0.34
1970         Pro-Hoteles, S.A.              Tourism             0.80     0.22     1.02
Total gross commitments                            9.65    10.03    19.68
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                             7.87     1.66    9.53
Total cormnitments now held by IFC                 1.78     8.37   10.15
Total undisbursed                                    -        -        -



ANNEX I
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Summarized below is the current status of all loans signed but
not fully disbursed:
Loan 369 - Electric Power (Nare Project), US$39 million, February, 1967.
Construction of the Guatape I Project is substantially com-
pleted and operation has commenced satisfactorily. The un-
disbursed portion of the loan (about US$1.2 million) will be
used for settling final accounts and retention payments.
Loan 499 - Telecommunications I, US$16 million, June 1967.
This project has been largely completed; however, the installation
of switching equipment in some small exchanges is behind schedule
owing to delays in erection of buildings. There have also been
some delays in deliveries of equipment. As a result disbursements
have lagged somewhat and the Bank therefore agreed to extend the
Closing Date by one year to December 31, 1972.
Loan 502 - Irrigation (Atlantico I), US$9 million, June 1967.
This project has suffered from unexpected difficulties in
selecting suitable irrigable soils. Also, difficulties were
experimented in constructing the main irrigation pumping plant
and the main drainage pumping plant. Construction is about two
years behind schedule but is now expected to be completed by
the revised Closing Date of December 31, 1973.
Loan 534 - Development Finance Companies II, US$12.5 million, May 1968.
This loan is fully committed for approved sub-projects, and the
undisbursed balance of us$0.5 million is expected to be completely
disbursed by the June 30, 1973 Closing Date.
Loan 536 - Water Supply (Bogota I), US$14 million, June 1968.
The major part of the First Bogota Project is in operation.
Water service in most areas with poor service is rapidly
improving. The operating performance of the Empresas is good.
The remaining works are proceeding at a pace partly adjusted to
needs dictated by the borrowing entity's temporary budget
constraints, but should be completed between mid- and end 1973.
The budget constraints are the results of apparently temporary
shortfalls in projected borrowing sources.



ANNEX I
Page 4
Loan 537 - Electric Power (Bogota), US$18 million, June 1968.
The project financed by this loan is substantially completed.
Lower than anticipated participation of joint financing agencies
together with foreign cost increases due to the devaluation of
the U.S. dollar led to a re-allocation of funds in mid-1972 among
the loan categories. Delays in the definition of the distribution
expansions have caused late bidding for distribution equipment.
An extension of the Closing Date until end of 1973 may be required
to disburse the loan amount.
Loan 550 - Highway !V, US$17.2 million, July 1968.
Project implementation has been somewhat lengthier than foreseen
because of poor performance by contractors, rainy seasons
appreciably heavier than normal, delays in payments to contractors
and delays experienced by contractors in obtaining equipmaent and
spares. iSome of the obstacles for progress of the project have been
eliminated and the Bank has granted an extension of the Closing
Date by one year to June 30, 1973.
Loan 551 - Railways. V, US$18.3 million, July 1968.
In October 1970, US$5.9 million of the loan was cancelled after the
Borrower obtained financing for a portion of the project 'under a
barter agreement with Poland. Disbursements under the loan were
not quite as rapid as forecast and the Closing Date was extended
first to June 30, 1972, and then to December 31, 1972.  Only
US$9.1 million is still undisbursed.
Loan 552 - EducatLon I, US$7.6 million, July 1968.
School construction is virtually completed but the procurement of
furniture and equipment is seriously delayed. We have urged the
executing entity for the project to take specific measures to
speed up delivery of these items. The Closing Date has already
been extended by one year to December 31, 1972, and will probably
have to be extended again. Full-time qualified teachers are
developing a new curriculum sheet that includes pre-vocational
activities, but the supply of qualified teachers for some
technical subJects remains insufficient; this matter is being
discussed in the course of preparation of a third education project.
Loan 575 - Electric Power (Interconnection), US$18 million, December 1968.
The project as originally described in the Loan Agreement started
operation in November 1971. Mainly due to the fact that the
joint financing arrangements raised more funds than anticipated
during the appraisal, the 230 kv line Guatape-Barrancabermeja,
which will incorporate the northeastern region into the inter-
connected system, was included in the loan. Completion of the
extension is scheduled by mid-1974.



ANNEX I
Page 5
Loan 624 - Agricultural Credit II, US$17 million, June 1969.
The project has been affected by many problems, one of which is
that INCORA now prefers to concentrate its resources on farmers
who have already benefitted from the agrarian reform program, thus
excluding areas presently undergoing such program. As only
US$2.5 million of the US$17 million loan has been disbursed
through July 31, 1972, the Government has presented a proposal
for restructuring the project which is under review in the Bank.
Loan 625 - Development Finance Companies III, US$25 million, June 1969.
US$24.4 million of this loan is committed for approved sub-projects.
The borrower's request for the extension of the original Closing
Date from September 30, 1972, to December 31, 1973, to permit
completion of disbursements is under consideration by the Bank.
Loan 651 - Livestock II, US$18.3 million, December 1969.
Disbursements under this loan have been affected by policy and
administrative problems.  Demand for the loans has been reduced
by uncertainties associated with lack of clarity in application
of the Agrarian Reform Law. However, the Government feels that
proposed amendments to the Law, which have passed the Senate and
are awaiting House concurrence, should help to resolve the
uncertainties; higher beef prices should also contribute to an
improved investment climate. During the last supervision mission,
the Colombians requested some changes in the Project designed to
facilitate loan implementation. The changes mainly strengthen
the administrative organization, expand the project areas and
increase the flexibility of the executing agency in fixing the
term and grace period of the sub-loans. In addition to improve
administration, these changes should increase access by smaller
ranchers to loan funds. The proposed changes have been accepted.
We will continue to keep this loan under close supervision in
order to assess the effects of the new measures on the progress
of disbursements.
Loan 679 - Education II, US$6.5 million, June 1970.
Disbursements under this loan amounted to US$1.3 million by
August 1972, or aboat 17 percent of the loan amount. Delays in
procurement of furniture and equipment are responsible for the
slow rate of project execution and disbursements. Some improve-
ment is expected, however, when the new project unit staff
gains experience.



ANNEX I
Page 6
Loan 680 - Highways VI, US$32 million, June 1970.
This project started slowly and disbursements are currently about
60 percent of appraisal estimates. There have been substantial
cost overruns which to some extent can be ascribed to insufficient
supervision of the works. The borrower has agreed to take action
to correct this problem. The loan is being kept under close
review with a view to taking action if improvements are not made
within a&reasonable time.
Loan 681 - Electric Power (Chivor I), US$52.3 million, June 1970.
Progress of the main civil works contract is generally satisfactory
and in agreement with the contractual dates. Bidding for the rest
of the civil works financed by the Bank is proceeding as planned.
Higher than expected prices for equipment together with changes
in the access road program have increased the total cost of the
project by about US$21 million which is tentatively planned to
be covered in part by unallocated funds of the IBRD loan (for
civil works) and the IDB loan (for equipment) and possibly by
contributions of ISA's shareholders. The situation will be re-
viewed as cost overrun estimates become more firm.
Loan 682 - Cali Water Supply and Sewerage, US$18.5 million, June 1970.
Of this loan for a water supply and sewerage project in Cali,
US$2.5 million was disbursed as of August 31, 1972. The Project
lost about one year due to a change in the Cali Municipal Govern-
ment that occurred after the loan was signed. The new Board
changed the general manager twice, and a number of key personnel
resigned. Weakened administrative capacity has accentuated the
tight fiiiancial situation and the need to raise tariffs.
Nevertheless, the Board has expressed a position against, tariff
increases. Presently, a large cash deficit and lack of financial
controls threaten the project and the financial viability of the
company. The Bank is considering what action would be appropriate
if corrective financial measures are not taken in the immediate
future.
Loan 738 - Palmira Water Supply and Sewerage, US$2 million, May 1971.
Construction on this project was delayed by about six months due
to slow project design and administration by consultants and
borrowers. The situation is now improving. Bidding on equip-
ment and materials has been substantially completed and bidding
on construction has begun.



ANNEX I
Page 7
Loan 739 - Land Settlement Caqueta I, Us$8.1 million, May 1971.
This loan is financing primarily fam credits, road construction,
schools and health centers for a colonization project administered
by the INCORA (Agrarian Reform Agency). Road ahd building
construction work is proceeding on schedule, but there was initially
some delay in worldng out the details of administrative arrange-
ments between INCORA and the Banco Ganadero for the operation of
the credit program. Additional problems were caused by a shortage
in the supply of suitable livestocck. As the result of recent
discussions these problems have been largely resolved.
Loan 740 - Telecommunications II, US$15 million, May 1971.
All loan funds have been committed. TELECOM presently has a
liquidity problem owing to the nonpayment of accounts receivable.
Action has been taken in this respect and it is expected that
improvements will occur before the end of the year.
Loan 741 - Water Supply (Bogota II), US$88 million, May 1971.
Of this loan, US$4.5 million was disbursed as of July 31, 1972.
Preparatory works for tunnel construction have started and design
and preparations for the other works are proceeding on schedule
(refer to Loan 536 above).
Loan 742 - Development Finance Companies IV, US$40 million, May 1971.
-Only US$1.0 million of this loan remains uncomiitted.  Disburse-
ments are proceeding on schedule.
Loan 842 - Development Program and Expansion Project, US$60 million, June
1972.
This loan was declared effective on August 24, 1972.
Loan 849 - Irrigation (Atlantico II), US$5 million, June 1972.
The Borrower is in the process of fulfilling conditions to
effectiveness.



A.oN22 1I
COUIITRY DATA
Co7Jnm1    COLOISZA
AM:   1.139.000 k.2                                          P0PtJLATlO4z       22.3 mi'lIlo, (1971 mid-year estimate)               DRNISITY.   19.6, per k,02
AREA,                                             l~~~~~~~~~~~ace of GroWth:  3.21. (from 1965 to 1970)                  ibid    :    81.6 per kit2 at -tbl    L.
POPULATION C_t1AA__T_E_IS_TItCS.ALH
Cruda Birth Rare ip8a   1,000)                47 (1966)                                                  Pplto          e   hlca          20'96
Crude DOvath Note (per 1,000)                 1s (1964)                                                  Population per phospitian       22d00 (1966)
infant   lorervlity (Pe r 1,000 live births)  78 (1967)                                                    putinprhptlbd                  40   (1.6
INON  IBT180101:                                                                                   DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWYTRSNIXI.P:i
o.f national Income, lowect qutntile         2.21                                                       20of land o.,a    bycp17       wners        81.1
highest quintile     66.06                                                       2 of land ownked by smallest 102. cnmers     0.1
S,'ES8 nTO POTABL. WATER:(% Of population)                                                               ACICESS TO ELECTRICITY;    (7. of population)
rb ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Uban
Bural    25                                                                                              Rural    7
NUTRITION:                                                        GOIP PD CAPITA;    9325 (1970)                    EDUCATION:
Calorie intake as 7. of raquiremonts       89 (1963)                                                                Adult literacy rate            757.  (1968)
Per capita protei. intake (pramwa)        49 (1963)                                                                 Primary school enrolment       94')  (1968)
CROSS NIATIONIAL PRODUICT ( 1970):                                                                                  ANNIUAL. RATE OF GROWTH (7. constant prices)-
(valvein US$oln'    7.                                                      1960-65            1965.70            1970
ClIP at Market prices                  68853             100.0                                                      4.1                5.1                6.3
Crsos Investment                       1521               22.2                                                      3.0                5.8               1532
.r0,, Nntional Savings                  12217.7                                                                     1.3                39..
Cu rrent Account 92alan.,.             .283               .4.1
Exports of Coods, 9F5                  1001               L4.8                                                      1.7                4.58.
lmporcs of Good&,. 979                 1116               16.3                                                      5.0                5.5               17.1
WTPUJL..LABCR FORCE AND
PRODLICTtVITY LN-1970-,  Value  Otd-             _,,b,, 'Irce.,                              ~  ~~~~Volvo Added Per Wdorke-
(U59 million)        7                       millos         .(U8 8)                                      1. of national average
Agri ru ture                        188s            29.1                       2.349      40.7                        802                         71
tnduetny                            1703            26.2                       1.126      19.7                       1499                        133
Services                            2900Ii..        4.7. ..Z.                .L.Z!       ..L.L                       1272                        111
Total/Averaga                  6488            100.0                     -3.64      TO00.0                       1126                        100
P'll" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~All Governments 1'                                                                                 ationial  Governmzent
(valse, in 09$ millions)                              ,. or .,ur vara5e               (ameunt) ~~~~ ni con. ~      of GDP Average
(unt)  2 of CD? ~~11 Iaat,IVa Aveage                                            laon)%  fGP Ist three yar.
Currant Receipts                                                 (mut            fCP        11116          er                  646          9.2              8.7      a 
Curranit Expenditurea (inctl. transfers)                                                                                       428          6.1              5.5
Currant Surplis/sDeficit (.                                         63           8.0                                           211          3.1              3.2
Capital Expenditures                                               425          11.7                                            294         4.2              4.0
Extarnal AaaLstance (net)                                          155           2.2                                             79         1.1               1.1
PRCES AND CREDITL:akCei                                                                                                                         oPrvt      ,co9
end of year:                    IIo.l         Pice   d alde                      Bonk Credit to Publif Sector-'Bn                    rdtt      rvt      ,co!
ine  (33100      %c. hangs                    (Coil million)       7.change               (Col$ million)         7. clangs
1968                      169.3               6.3                            I,9                   .                     7862.
1969                      180.8               6.?                             ,9                   .                     7862.
1970                      194..6              7.6                            9,834                0.7                   22,305                2'. 7
1971                      213.1               9.6                            3,809               -0.4                   26,946                20.8
Feb.   1971                      203.?..
Feb.   1972                      2:7.1             11.3
BaLAMCR OF PANNENT:                      (mlin         u                            DMCNADIS9     BXFORTS  (Avetaxa of 1968.     ~ 1 ~~_l9'2          (U$Hilop
MI6 ~j        jl                       Coffee                                                               390.4              61.9
Exports of Goods, lIPS                 N1       87-0     1000                    Petrolaum                                                              49,6               7.9
Importa of Goods, ff95                886       939      1149                    cotton                                                                 33.5               5.3
Aesou,r# Cap (deficit *- 314                  _zu       jk                      Textiles                                                               16.7               2.6
Blananasn   eat16.0                                                                       2.5
Interest Paymene (nt!Cattle rd                                                               ef15.8                                                                        2.5
Worker,' Ba,sttac                  Sitt),3   38        36                    Sugar                                                                  15.7               2.5
Other Factor Payments (not)          -2.13.    -14,4     -180                    All ether Commnodities                                                 92.7              14.7
Net Tran,sfesr                        -82      .106      -144                      Total                                                               630.4             Wi ..'.7
Selman    on Current Actoont         -180      -175      -293
'Direct foreign Invastoant              68        so        59
Madium and Long-term Loana (set)0      137       151      161                     Medium and Long-term Credit.. Public.                               1072.4
Disibursmoonta                  (210)     (197)     (234)                    lIon..Ouarenteed Private )C.T.                                   1.J..LL
Amurttistlln                     (71)      (66)      (73)
OffLicial Crants                       na        nao       n                      Total Ouitstanding and Disbursod.                                /1229.7
Other Caipictl (net                                         ai 
InTA0in Ollictel   Upearvol       ;9        59        36                   RUT 61AXJ.!L  PAT~IO...L 9Z7.L  11.4 7.
All Other itama                                   41      -19                   DBRUMI      LKNIIINC. DCOU     I.   17                                  (R Mtn.)         ID
Green Basoarvee 1                      21.4      23       298                     Outstanding and Disburasd                                            391                20
Not Bajerves                           2A        97       152                     Undisbursead                                                         321
Outotanding intl. Undisbursed                                        712                20
Rate of Exchange:    UBI 1.00   -  Coal$  21.70              Date:         May 19. 1972
CaIl$  .00  -   105  0.0481              Department:   South America Dearstment
1960 censug.   Pieures refer to ftrm unite Irrespettive of ownership.
1st lade. National Goverrnment, Natit.al D,centraiis0d Entities, Departments entd K,,nitipal'itiaa (inctudin9j Xuniclp.1 tnterpriases).
Figuroeerar In tended as useful appim.nimatiouil rather than precise valuse, end srea subject to reviaion as improve data become avaLilable.
Icuded in uthef 1actor puYments 'net).-
J/Total net u,nrequited fransates.
6/   IMF Sperial Dr.aning Bights.
Ti   Consrat Saink ro..rvsa.
I/   Cevt.nal Batik onac.  ennerciat Soank tel-lit (net ba1ancaut yanr end) to thea National Government, nepartm.v,ta, Municipalitieo      and ONfficiat Entitie,s.
I/   Central D.a,k and Coneretlal SanSt Ct:.liL (not balantomat Year end) to davelopsent sgoncioa anid to tbs prviate1 sector.



ANNEX II
Page 2
SOURCES OF EXTERNAI FINANCING OF COLOMBIAN PROJECTS FOR 1963-1971
(Amounts in Millions of US Dollars)
. 1.963-1 96.9,         1.970           1 971 
Average     /
Annual,Amountfa   (     Amount    (%)   Amount    (%)
U.S. AID                        61           30      72      23      82     21
U.s. EximBANK                   14            7      12       4       3      i
IBRD                            50           25     i09      36     153     40
IDB                             44           22      49      16      85     22
Subtotal ..    ..  .,      169          84      242   , ,79     323  .. 84
Belgium                                               2               2      1
France                                                5       2       7      2
Germany                                              1'6      5      12      3
Great Britain                                         8       3     . 2      1
Italy                                                 3      1       10      2
Japan                                                 4      1        1      -
Sweden                                               20       7       4      1
Switzerland                                           3      1
USA-excluding AID &
EXIEBANK                                          .4     1       12      3
Others                                                               12     3
Subtotal          . , .      33     ,,     6 , .66..21      6,,...       16
GRAND TOTAL                 202         100      308    100      385    joo
i Amounts for most bilateral financing not available
Source: Colombia National Planning Department



ANNEX III
Page 1
COLOMBIA: LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
MEIUM-CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Borrowers                Instituto de Fomento Municipal (INSFOPAL)
Beneficiary:             6 public utilities entities in Tulua, Armenia,
Pereira, Santa Marta, Manizales, Neiva and
Aquavalle, a regional water supply and sewerage
authority responsible for a project in
Buenaventura.
Guarantors               Republic of Colombia.
Amount:                  The equivalent in various currencies of US$9.1
million.
Terms:                   Repayment in 25 years, including 4 years of
grace at an interest of 7 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:         The loan funds would be passed on by the borrower
to the various beneficiaries on
the same terms as the Bank loan.
Project Description:     The project consists of seven sub-projects designec
to increase water treatment and storage capacities
and to improve water distribution. With the
exception of sub-projects in Buenaventura and
Santa Marta, sewerage works are also included.
Estimated aost and       The following table summarizes the estimated
Financing Plan:         project costs:
US$ (million)
Local Foreign Total
Armenia                     1.54    0.26    1.80
Manizales                   3.63    0.27    3.90
Neiva                       1.73    0.21    1.94
Pereira                     2.63    0.99    3.62
Tulua                       1.75    0.28     2.03
Buenaventura                0.90    0.09    0.99
Santa Marta                 0.60    0.17    0.77
INSFOPAL's Costs             -      0.48    o.48
TOTAL COST OF THE PROJECTS           2.75   1 m
Interest on Bank loan
during Construction         -      1.20      -
Total Foreign Exchange       -      3.85



ANNEX III
Page 2
Estimated Disbursement:              IBRD Fiscal Year           US$ Million
1973                      2.3
1974                       4.1
1975                      1.7
1976                      1.0
Procurement Arrangements:            International competitive bidding
arrangements would be followed in
contracts for civil works and for
equipment purchases. For the purpose
of evaluating bids, a 15 percent
preference would be allowed for equipment
manufactured in Colombia except for pipes
where Colombian suppliers have a sub-
stantial local advantage and are able
to compete effectively with6ut a prefe-
recent. The beneficiaries are exempt
from import duties; the bidding would
therefore not be affected by regional
preferences.
Consultants:                         The Pan American Health Organization will
provide management assistance to INSFOPAL.
INSFOPAL's External Credit Office, which
will administer the projects,will be
assisted by local consultants. Consultant
arrangements will also be made for the
7 beneficiaries.
Rate of Return:                      The economic rate of return of the various
sub-projects varies between 9 and 17
percent. These percentages represent
minimum estimates of the sub-projects
benefits since in the calculations of
these returns, no attempt was made to
capture the substantial, but unquantifiable,
health and other benefits.
Appraisal. Report:                   PA-100



ANNEX III
Page 3
Water Supply and Sewerage Operations of Beneficiary Entities
The main financial and administrative aspects of the seven utilities
that will benefit from the proposed loan are described below. Apart from water
supply and sewerage services, they also provide other services to the local
communities including public markets, slaughterhouses, and street cleaning.
In addition, some of them provide telephone services and/or electric power.
The attached table shows the existing and proposed rates for water supply and
sewerage services. The financial rates of return shown refer only to the water
and sewerage operation of the seven beneficiaries.   The Buenaventura and Santa
Marta accounting systems, however, did not allow for a reliable rate of return
estimate. Thus, operating ratios are shown.
ARMENIA (Population 170,000)
In the past, the organization and financial position of the Empresas
Publicas de Armenia (EPA) has been inadequate. With the help of management
consultants the Empresas have improved substantially during 1971 and 1972 and
further progress is expected in the future. A tariff increase of 81 percent
for water supply and sewerage went into effect this year. It is estimated that
in 1972 the financial rate of return on the revalued fixed assets will be about
0.2 percent. This rate of return is expected to rise to 6.9 percent in 1973
and 7.1 percent in 1978. EPA also provides electric power supply, telephone,
and other services to Armenia.
MANIZALES (Population 300,000)
The organization and financial position of the Empresas Publicas de
Manizales (EPM) is adequate. However; improvements are necessary in its manage-
ment information system, particularly in cost and general accounting. Consultant
would be appointed to help management tackle this problem. A tariff increase of
57 percent for water supply and sewerage went into effect earlier this year and
this has substantially improved the financial situation of EPM. A further increa
of 35 percent is programmed for 1973. It is estimated that in 1972 the financial
rate of return on revalued fixed assets is about 0.7 percent; this is expected
to rise to 5 percent in 1973 and 7.4 percent in 1978. EPM also handles telephone
and other services, but no electric power.
NEIVA (Population 130,000)
The Empresas Publicas de Neiva (EPN) requires administrative reorgani-
zation particularly with regard to internal control and accounting. This problem
is being tackled by EPN with the assistance of management consultants. A tariff



ANNEX III
Page   4
increase of 68 percent for water supply and sewerage, programmed for 1972,
will help improve the EPN financial situation. It is estimated that in 1972
the financial rate of return on revalued fixed assets will be 0.1 percent and
it is expected that this would raise to 4.5 percent in 1974 and 3.9 percent
in 1978. EPN also administers telephone service for Neiva.
PEREIRA (Population 230,000)
The Empresas Publicas de Pereira (EPP), recently reorganized, is
a well managed utility. The financial situation of EPP is sound and it is
estimated that the rate of return revalued fixed assets in 1972 will be about
1 percent;in 1974', 2.6 percent; and in 1978, 5.4 percent. Tariffs have been
raised 73 percentfin June of this year. EPP also supplies electric power
and telephone service and administers other services in Pereira.
TULUA (Population 80,000)
The Empresas Municipales de Tulua (EMT) is in a poor financial
position.  However, to correct this deficiency, tariff increases are programmed,
the first to be instituted at'the beginning of 1973 (117 percent) for water
supply and sewerage.  Also, management consultants will assist EM  in strengthen-
ing its internal organization through better administrative procedures. It is
estimated that-for 1972 the rate of return on revalued fixed assets will be
4.7 percent and that this would decrease to 3 percent in 197h and remain at that
level thereafter, except for 1975, when the rate of return would be 2 percent.
EMT also administers telephone service and operates a slaughterhouse and a
market place.
BUENAVENTURA (Population 100,000)
The financial and administrative situation of the Buenaventura water
supply and sewerage system has been very poor; however, noteworthy improvements
have been made by Acuavalle since taking over the management of Buenaventura in
1971. Tariff increases are programmed to resolve the financial problem. The
first increase of 303 percent in 1972 is expected to meet some strong resistance
by the public. INSFOPAL and consultants will help the management to further
improve the administration of the system. It is estimated that for 1972 the
Buenaventura water supply system operating ratio (excluding depreciation) will
be 87 percent, in'1974, 54 percent, and in 1980, 50 percent.
SANTA MARTA (Population 130,000)
The Santa Marta water supply and sewerage system, operated by Acuadelma,
has had an unsatisfactory technical and economic performance in the past. A new
independent corpoiation will be established to administer this system. This new
corporation will receive managerial, technical, and administrative assistance
from consultants and INSFOPAL. Tariff increases are programmed for this water
supply and sewerage system, the first one of 20 percent in 1972. 'It is estimated
that in 1972 the Santa Marta water supply and sewerage system would improve its
operating ratio (excluding depreciation) from 84 percent in 1972 to 66 percent in
1979, and 50 percent in 1980.



ANNEX III
Page 5
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Table 1 - Basic Features of Projects
Financial     Sources of Funds during Project
City      Total     Bank     Minimum      Rate                Period %
(Population)   Cost  Financing    I.E.R.    of Return    Cash      Govern   Bank   Other
(US$ million)      %        (1971)     Generation  ment
Armenia        1.80    1.01        17        6.9          34.2     21.7     32.3    11.8
(170,000)
Manizales      3.90     2.22       11        6.5          29.8     29.1     41.1     --
(300,000)
Neiva          1.94    1.07        10        3.4          19.4     27.6     43.3     9.7
(130,000)
Pereira        3.62    2.14        13        4.5          38.5     22.0     39.5     --
(240,000)
Tulua          2.03    1.16        9.2       2.8          27.7     29.5     42.8
(8o,ooo)
Buenaventura   0.99    0.53        14        0.4          20.6     43.1     36.3
(100,000)
Santa Marta    0.77    0.43        13.4      n.a.i/       23.0     52.0     25.0
(140,000)
1/    Assets have not yet been revalued and agreement would be sought on
minimum operating ratios.



ANNEX III
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Table 2 Average Tariffs 1971-1976
(Col $)
Of Which
1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976      For Sewerage
ARMENIA
Average tariffs (Col.$)     0.72     1.30    1.40    1.50    1.60    1.60
Annual Increase (%)          -         81       8       7       7     -        50%
MANIZALES
Average tariffs (Col.$)     0.72     1.13    1.53    1.65    1.65    1.65
Annual Increase (%)           -        57      35       8     -       -        30%
NEIVA
Average tariffs (Col.$)     0.73     1.23    1.40    1.50    1.50    1.50
Annual Increase (%)           -        68      14       7     -       -        30%
PEREIRA
Average tariffs (Col.$)     0.75    1.30     1.45    1.60    1.60    1.60
Annual Increase (%)           -        73      12      10     -       -        25%
TULUA
Average tariffs (Col.$)     Q.46     1.00    1.30    1.43    1.57    1.57
Annual Increase (%)           -       117      30      10      10     -        40%
BUENAVENTURA  (Provides only water)
Average tariffs (Col.$)     0.59     1.20    1.40    1.50    1.60    1.60
Annual Increase (%)          -        103       8       7       7     -
SANTA MARTA ( Average tariff excludes sewerage charges)
Average tariffs (Col.$)     1.10     1.32    1.45    1.45    1.45    1.45
Annual Increase (%)           -        20      10     -       -       -        50%



7.                   76                    Z                   70-              _
Rio~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C S      OlA2\
-1'A  TI   A    NTI   C                                                       SOUTHEMEAIC
Sa,ronqoii
,I 0  e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                0
>  t   ~  ~  ~ ~ 9ocorolonoa  - 
s  ) , CRDEA            t5 DEI          V E N E Z U E L A
8ANTANDESR A jA .  A  A UCA
eno C H OnCtbu^ . ro  .   ,i  I  9 r  idOA ND   AYR  A  U C A
CAC bot,                                                 GUAINIA . ,  CUNDINAMARCAV''  c
tK             BuenovnsuCP V A L L E / ~~~~~Bb'GT  OLtMA           q g, 
Mitd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
Su.~~~~~~~~~~.
i /j r_, i,I // ' ......  0FMIEoroncIo.
0C.11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Medum Sze'U CiesWaerSC A  Se H U  g L e o   A                      U A  I N  IA 
<r   Elvt., ,' .Flornsaove 140  o ne /ter
DepoAR tmentN O   .   Cotn-l jrfoV              A  U  P E Sboundarie
g 2 Mob  rboers  M=/ q 
1 < r.~~~~~~~~/'                                   ' I 0-
0   0  00 io  A  U E TA
CILOMLO Ail 
Medium Size Cities Water Supply a, Sewerage Projects  A M A Z O N A 5S,
PROJECT LOCATIONS         
r oil  Projcet  cities                           yo
IElevations axbove 1400 motors 
--  1Department, Intandencio el Comisarlo boundaries  P>  E  R  U
LJ Maxin rivers.
0   50  100  )SOi                                             ,t
_4           KILOMETERS                                    ^ t   b   i  g4-
,Z,p 'W,-   .'-'   by A,lw
WWA.k.dinkodpiO,flt.
708-                 715                  753                  70-t
APRIL 1972                                                                            IBRD  3916



