Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICAL USiE ONLY
Report No. 12847
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
THIRD SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2673-EC)
MARCH 11, 1994
Trade, Finance and Private Sector Development
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency unit - Sucre
Exchange Rate: Intervention Rate (end of period):
1985        US$1  =        69.6
1986        US$1 =         122.8
1987        US$1 =         170.5
1988        US$1  =        301.6
1989        US$1  =        526.3
1990        US$1  =        767.8
1991        US$1 =       1,046.2
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCE         Banco Central del Ecuador (Central Bank)
BNF         National Development Bank
CD          Certificate of Deposit
CFN         Corporaci6n Financiera Nacional
DFC         Development Finance Company
FOPINAR    Fondo de Fomento para la Pequenia Industria y la Artesania
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
IMF         International Monetary Fund
SDR         Special Drawing Rights
SSE         Small Scale Enterprises
TA          Technical Assistance



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
W"hington. D.C. 20433
USA
Offic, of Dlrctor-Goneral
Operdions Evaluaton
March 11, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Ecuador -
Third Small Scale Enterprise Credit Project (Loan 2673-EC)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Ecuador - Third Small Scale Enterprise Credit
Project (Loan 2673-EC) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office, with Part
II of the report contributed by the Borrower.
The objective of the project was to support small-scale enterprise (SSE) development through the
provision of a line of credit and technical assistance to Ecuador's Development Fund for Small Scale
Enterprises and Artisans. The Borrower's contribution to the PCR highlights the benefits of the project,
which succeeded in: providing critically needed funds to SSEs at a time when the prevailing economic
crisis made alternative funds scarce; and consolidating the institutional building efforts initiated under
the two previous SSE projects. The performance of the SSEs supported is unknown.
Notwithstanding the above positive contributions, the project had serious shortcomings. Most
importantly, the Borrower failed to comply with loan covenants relating to interest rate policy, which
called for positive real interest rates on subloans. As a result, onlending rates to the SSEs were heavily
subsidized. This stimulated demand for the subloans and resulted in the incurrence of substantial
foreign exchange losses for the Government. Despite the lack of compliance, loan commitments were
not suspended because it was felt that this would have a serious negative impact on SSEs. However,
loan commitments under the Industrial Finance Project (Loan 2672-EC), which was being implemented
concurrently, were interrupted until an acceptable interest rate policy was adopted.
The project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory. Institutional development achievements are rated
as modest and sustainability as uncertain.
The PCR is of very good quality. It raises some interesting issues regarding: the financing and
performance of SSE projects in difficult macroeconomic environments; subsidized credit to SSEs; and
the absorption of foreign exchange risk by the Government.
An audit is planned. The audit should attempt to analyze the performance of subprojects, and
probe deeper into some of the issues raised in the PCR, including the reasons for the low utilization of
the more innovative, albeit small, component of the project, which was the provision of technical
assistance loans to SSEs.
Attachment
This document bak a retuicted diutribution and nmy be uwed by recipients only in the perfomance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
THIRD SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2673-EC)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ................................................. i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..................................... ii-v
PART I.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity  ...........               ................   1
B. Background ............................1
C. Project Objectives and Description . ......................  6
D. Project Design and Organization ......................... 7
E. Project Implementation ...........................                          9
F. Project Results .......................... 13
G. Project Sustainability ..........................                          15
H. Bank Performance ..........................                                15
I. Borrower Performance ..........................                            16
J. Project Relationship ........................... 17
K. Project Documentation and Data ........................ 18
PART II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. The Borrower and the Executing Agency ................... 19
B. Relations with the World Bank ......................... 20
C. Relations between the Executing Agency and Participating
Financial Institutions ............................... 20
PART III.    STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans .22
2. Project Timetable .22
3. Loan Disbursements .22
4. Use of Bank Resources .23
ANNEXES .......                                                                          24-60
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
THIRD SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2673-EC)
Preface
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Small Scale Enterprise Credit
Project in Ecuador, for which Loan 2673-EC in the amount of US$30.0 million equivalent was
approved on March 27, 1986. The project was implemented during a particularly difficult
period, marked by high inflation and recession, the onslaught of a natural disaster in 1987, and
the consequent liquidity crisis. The loan was closed on December 31, 1992, six months behind
schedule. The final disbursement was made on April 26, 1993.
2.    The PCR was prepared by the Trade, Finance, and Private Sector Development Division,
Country Department IV, of the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
3.   In preparation of this PCR, a mission visited Ecuador in June 1992 and discussed the
effectiveness of the operation with Governmental officials, with representatives of the Executing
Agency, and with representatives of the participating financial intermediaries, and investment
enterprises that received financing from this loan. It is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
Report; the Loan and Guarantee Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.






- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
THIRD SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2673-EC)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The project was to continue the initiatives begun under two prior Bank credit lines for
Small Scale Enterprises (SSEs) channeled through the same Executing Agency, FOPINAR'. Its
objectives were to: (i) relieve the scarcity of term financing on reasonable terms to strengthen,
expand, diversify, and modernize existing SSEs; (ii) provide medium-term financing for
permanent working capital to help reduce current idle capacity in the SSE sector; and (iii)
continue expanding FOPINAR's institutional capabilities.
Design and Implementation
2.    The project objectives were well focused and provided essential continuity for
FOPINAR's operations. The critical issues dealing with design and implementation are
summarized below.
Exchange rate risk. A critical feature of the loan was the Government's decision to
undertake the exchange rate risk associated with sub-loans to SSEs. Demand for sub-
loans from these enterprises was very strong because they provided a hedge against
devaluation, and in consequence, the Government incurred a substantial foreign exchange
loss. Economic losses arise from conversion of sucres into dollars whenever debt service
payments were made. Part of these losses have not yet been realized, but have been
accruing as a result of the differential in the exchange rate between the time of loan
disbursement and when the loan is repaid. As of year-end 1992, the net losses to the
Borrower from debt service payment as well as the accumulated translation losses
amounted to about US$20.5 million. These losses will continue to increase as long as
there is any balance outstanding on the loan; their ultimate impact will depend on the
evolution of currency relationships over the full repayment period of the loan.
'FOPINAR (Fondo de Fomento para la Pequenia Industria y Artesanfa) is a second-tier
organization in charge of channeling funds through commercial financial institutions for lending
to small scale enterprises. FOPINAR is a subdivision of the state owned Corporaci6n Financiera
Nacional (CFN).



- iii -
Interest rate policy conditionality. The design of interest rate policy conditionality was
aimed at rationalizing Ecuador's managed interest rate structure. Under the Loan
Agreement, certain interest rates were to be positive in real terms. While these
conditions were not satisfied, loan commitments were not interrupted as was the case
with another concurrent Bank loan (2672-EC). In 1989, the Govemment adopted a new
interest rate policy that was more consistent with positive real interest rates. While the
adoption of a new formula rate on loan operations was an important step in improving
the response of the financial system to market forces, it was only gradually applied to
the various lending categories. However, the Bank's persistence in this area, through
this as well as through other financial sector operations and policy dialogue, was
instrumental in the Government's ultimate decision to adopt a policy of market
determined interest rates.
Participation by financial intermediaries. By design, the participating financial
intermediaries (PFIs) intermediated FOPINAR funds for onlending to investing
enterprises, with the intermediaries retaining the credit risk. This feature assured that
the lending institutions would undertake thorough credit analysis of the applicants and
perform the appropriate loan supervision. The PFIs showed mixed responses to sub-loan
processing. Some complained of high administrative and supervision costs associated
with very small operations. Nevertheless, they recognized that participation in the sub-
loan enhanced the relationship with their customers. PFIs saw the loan as an opportunity
to cross-sell other banking services such as cash management, letters of credit, and
deposit accounts.
Technical assistance. The technical assistance (TA) component of the loan was aimed
at several areas: (i) carrying out of studies to identify industries where import
prohibitions were redundant; (ii) carrying out of reviews to estimate idle capacity of
various industries; (iii) acquisition of micro-computing equipment; and (iv) training of
FOPINAR staff. While the emphasis on preparation of specialized studies (items i and
ii) was well intentioned, the more critical areas were those dealing with training and
institution building of FOPINAR (items iii and iv). The TA component of the loan was
successfully implemented although with some delays. The loan's closing date had to be
extended by 6 months to allow for the use of the TA component. Technical training of
FOPINAR staff appears to have worked well; however, it is less clear whether TA for
SSE's produced the desired results. Little utilization of TA assistance financing under
the sub-loan facility should be evaluated to identify why SSEs were not responsive to this
facility and what needs to be done to ensure greater usage in the future.
Results and Sustainability
3.    Overall, the results of the loan were satisfactory. The principal accomplishments were
support of the SSEs through medium-and long-term financing, reform of the Government's
interest rate policies, enhancement of FOPINAR's performance, and promotion of greater
participation by financial institutions in lending to SSEs. Several deficiencies were encountered



- IV -
in both loan design and implementation. The assumption of exchange rate risk by the
Government resulted in an additional financial burden, while the SSEs benefitted in the form of
subsidized credit. Loan supervision should have been more aggressive, particularly in the TA
component of the loan.
4.    Based on reported statistics, the project supported 1,941 loans to SSEs and micro
enterprises. The financial crisis and bouts of inflation that affected Ecuador during 1986-88
seriously affected the ability of SSEs to obtain medium-and long-term financing. By injecting
much needed financial resources into the economy, this loan provided a boost to the SSE sector
and helped to ensure a sustainable recovery. The low incidence of problem loans demonstrates
that risk factors were effectively managed by the PFIs, and confirms the satisfactory repayment
records of SSEs in Ecuador. The principal results of this loan are summarized below.
- The credit component was utilized faster than envisaged. Most of the loan approvals
occurred during 1986-88. However, the average loan size declined considerably before
levelling off in 1988. This is attributed mostly to the problem with specifying credit
limits in sucres which resulted in a shrinking dollar value of credit limits as the sucre
was devalued.
- As per the appraisal, sub-loans financed about 62 percent of the cost of investment
projects, the rest was covered by the companies' internal funds. The bulk of lending
activity was handled by commercial banks accounting for about 93 percent of loan
proceeds.
- From a financial perspective, the quality of the sub-loans significantly exceeded
expectations. Only 2.5 percent of FOPINAR loans by commercial banks were in arrears
in 1991, the corresponding figure for finance companies was 1.5 percent. These results
compare quite favorably with the percentage of arrears in their global loan portfolio.
- The principal sectors in terms of financing were fishing, food products, textiles,
clothing, and basic metallic products which represented about 51 percent of loan
proceeds. Lending to other manufacturing and services industries was well diversified
with no single industry accounting for more than 5 percent of total loans. Little over half
of the loan amount was disbursed in Guayas and Pichincha provinces.
Findings and Lessons Learned
4.     The following are some of the main findings and lessons learned.
Loan pricing. Interest rates on sub-loans were determined by the monetary authorities
at below market rates. Subsidized interest rates stimulated demand for the loan and
contributed to the substantial foreign exchange losses incurred by the Government. Bank
loans should be undertaken only if interest rates are market determined. The spreads
specified in this operation may not have been adequate to cover the costs and risks of the



v 
PFIs. Bank loans should not predetermine either interest rates or the spreads of the
PFIs. If predetermination of spreads is required due to lack of market determined
interest rates--as in the case of this loan--the full cost of loan processing should be
assessed to arrive to a more realistic pricing formula.
Foreign exchange risk. In this loan the Government experienced a substantial foreign
exchange loss. This loss was the result of lending the Bank funds in sucres at subsidized
interest rates that did not reflect devaluation expectations. Under these conditions, it is
difficult to estimate the premium that the Government should charge to cover the foreign
exchange risk. The experience with similar exchange guarantees in other countries is
that the Government usually ends up incurring substantial losses. Under ideal conditions
of market determined interest and exchange rates, a foreign exchange premium could be
determined that would compensate for future changes in the exchange rate; and the
results would be indifferent whether the Government or the final borrower assumes the
foreign exchange risk.
Technical assistance. FOPINAR complied satisfactorily with the execution of
promotional and training programs. However, Bank guidance in evaluating the outcome
of these events could have generated useful insights on their effectiveness.
Supervision. Bank supervision of the project was adequate. FOPINAR's supervision of
the sub-loans was also adequate. However, greater efforts by FOPINAR to analyze the
impact of the sub-loans would have been helpful in measuring the loan's impact.
Specifically, more emphasis was needed in procedures for collection of loan performance
information from final borrowers and its evaluation by FOPINAR staff. Overall,
FOPINAR gathered an extensive amount of raw data which needs to be refined and
analyzed.



- I -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
TH1RD SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2673-EC)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
1.1   Project Name: Third Small Scale Enterprise Credit Project
Loan Number: 2673-EC
RVP Unit:   LA4TF
Country:     Ecuador
Sector:      Finance and Industry
B. BackgrQund2
1.2   Ecuador had entered the 1970's as one of the least developed Latin American countries.
In 1967, petroleum was discovered in Ecuador's Amazon region and in 1972 the country became
a net oil exporter. In 1973 world oil prices quadrupled and Ecuador's export earnings doubled.
During the 1970's, Ecuadoran income and output expanded rapidly, perhaps at a rate
unprecedented in its history. By 1983 per capita GNP had risen to US$1,430, placing Ecuador
firmly among the Bank's middle-income borrowers.
1.3   Between 1960 and 1980, much social progress was made. Life expectancy increased by
ten years; death and infant mortality rates dropped by more than 40 percent; and school
enrollment expanded rapidly. Nevertheless, because of the low level from which Ecuador
started, its social indicators lagged behind those of other countries with similar levels of per
capita income. Moreover, the benefits of growth were not evenly distributed. While a sizeable
middle class emerged, about 40 percent of the urban and 65 percent of the rural population lived
in absolute poverty.
1.4   During 1981/82, the terms of trade turned against Ecuador as oil prices began to decline.
Export earnings fell by about 8 percent in 1982. Despite a reduced volume of imports, the
current account deficit of the balance of payments exceeded US$1 billion, about 9 percent of
GDP. The authorities' attempts to deal with the crisis were, for the most part, prompt and in
the right direction. First, they dealt with the exchange rate. In 1982, the sucre was devalued
for the first time since 1970 and thereafter it was adjusted frequently. Second, they dealt with
I Based on: President's Report, March 1986. This section describes the principal economic
and financial system trends prior to loan approval.



-2-
the liquidity crisis by temporarily prohibiting or limiting many imports and renegotiating the
principal on the external private and public debt.
1.5   A fiscal austerity program was put in place 1983 in cooperation with the IMF. The
public sector deficit was reduced from about 8 percent of GDP in 1982 to about 1.4 percent in
1983 and virtually eliminated in 1984. Ecuador also complied with the rest of the IMF program.
Partly as a result, inflation was more than halved in 1984, to about 23 percent; the balance of
payments was practically brought into equilibrium, and growth resumed. A subsequent IMF
program--a one year SDR 105.5 million stand-by for 1985/1986--also prodded the Government
to achieve a public sector surplus equivalent to about 2 percent of GDP for 1985 by raising
revenues and holding down expenditures. The exchange rates of the official and intervention
markets were also unified, and inflation fell to an annualized rate of about 14 percent during the
last half of 1985.
1.6   The Manufacturing Sector. At the time of loan appraisal, manufacturing remained at an
early stage of development. Activities such as food processing, textiles, and wood processing
accounted for about three-quarters of manufacturing value added. Most production was sold in
the domestic market and was highly dependent upon imported inputs. The manufacturing sector
had accounted for about 18 percent of GDP in the early 1980's, and in 1983 employed about
320,000 workers (11 percent of the work force). During the economic expansion from 1972 to
1982, manufacturing was Ecuador's leading growth sector, expanding at an average annual real
rate of 9.5 percent. However, the growth of manufacturing value added fell from 6.9 percent
in 1982 to a negative 1.9 percent in 1983, reflecting the impact of economic recession, severe
shortages of raw materials resulting from import restrictions and poor weather conditions, and
the lack of foreign as well as domestic credit. The manufacturing sector's contribution to
exports was minimal during the 1970's. This situation was largely due to the anti-export bias
of the import substituting policies adopted by the country.
1.7    More than 80 percent of manufacturing employment and of manufacturing value added
was generated by firms located in Guayaquil and Quito. Manufacturing industry was also
characterized by a small, modern oligopolistic segment of import substituting industries that had
been superimposed on a largely traditional sector where small firms prevailed. In most
industries less than four firms controlled between 50 and 95 percent of the domestic market.
1.8   Small-Scale Enterprises. The Government's economic program  contemplated the
provision of financial support for the development of SSEs. For purposes of this support, SSEs
were defined as firms engaged in industry, agro-industry, fishing, tourism, and related industrial
services and marketing activities, with fixed assets of less than US$350,000 equivalent,
excluding land and buildings. As official statistics on SSEs provided information only on the
general structure and characteristics of the SSE sector, a survey of 101 SSEs was carried out by
the Bank's appraisal mission. This survey provided further insight into the situation and
performance of SSEs. Overall, SSEs had shown great potential for job creation. In 1980, some
8,000 small firms and 200,000 artisans accounted for 12 percent of manufacturing output and
employed about 40 percent of total manufacturing labor. Moreover, the Bank's survey revealed



that in 1982-84, SSEs created employment at an average cost per job of $1,400--a fraction of
the industrial sector average.  SSEs were widely distributed geographically, but were
concentrated in the food, wood processing, leather, garment, and light metalworking sub-sectors,
where activities were mostly labor intensive and generally did not require large-scale production.
They also utilized intermediate products that were less costly and had a higher local content than
the rest of industry. The main markets of SSEs were local urban centers. Strong market
segmentation prevailed, owing to high transport costs, underdeveloped commercial
infrastructure, and cultural differences among the country's various geographical areas. This
market segmentation prevented greater competition among SSEs.
1.9  Idle capacity had been a chronic problem (it averaged 42 percent in 1984), resulting
from: (i) scarcity of credit, especially for working capital; (ii) difficulty by SSEs in obtaining
imported inputs; and (iii) the high market segmentation.
1.10 The main organizations providing technical assistance (TA) to SSEs were the provincial
Small Industrialists' Associations, coordinated by a Federation in Quito; the Professional
Training Service under the Ministry of labor; and the National Center for Promotion of Small-
Scale Industry and Artisans established by the Ministry of Industry Commerce and Integration
to support firms registered under the SSE and Artisan Incentive Laws. Generally, efforts by
these organizations to deliver technical assistance to SSEs were scattered and uncoordinated.
1.11 Policy Environment. Investment incentives were established by the Industrial Incentive
Law of 1957. The core of the law emphasized the development of import-substitution industries.
Trade policies provided high import tariffs for final consumer goods and low tariffs for raw
materials, intermediate, and capital goods. Protection from imports was also provided through
numerous quantitative restrictions, import prohibitions and prior authorization for imports. This
policy framework and, until 1982, the fixed exchange rate for inputs and machinery imports,
provided high effective protection to domestic industry, encouraged capital-intensive industries,
and hindered the development of export-oriented activities.
1.12 In an effort to streamline industrial incentives and encourage manufacturing exports, more
intensive use of domestic resources and better use of installed capacity, new regulations for the
Industrial Incentive Law were issued in January 1985. Major reforms included: (i) granting of
tax benefits based on export performance; (ii) reductions of income tax exonerations, especially
for sectors with excess capacity, thereby eliminating a major inducement for the current
oligopolistic structure of the manufacturing sector; (iii) introduction of progressive reduction and
time limitations on tariff exonerations for raw materials and intermediate products; a maximum
period of 4 years for existing enterprises, and of 10 years for new enterprises, was established.
1.13 In the context of the preparation of a proposed trade policy reform loan, the Government
and the Bank agreed on a program of import tariff reductions and elimination of quantitative
trade restrictions (QRs). A revised tariff structure was adopted by the Government in January
1986. Import tariffs were reduced from a maximum (including all surcharges) of 220 percent
to 100 percent, and tariff dispersion was reduced so that over 75 percent of commodities had



tariffs of 70 percent or less. Based on these data, average tariffs and tariff dispersion were
reduced for all tariff categories by about 30 percent and 50 percent respectively. The reductions
in nominal tariff levels on final products, together with the progressive reduction of tariff
exonerations on imported inputs and raw materials, reduced levels of effective protection
significantly.
1.14 The Financial Sector. The main institutions in Ecuador's financial system were the
Central Bank (BCE), 32 private commercial banks with about 285 branches; 3 state banks--the
National Development Bank (BNF), the Ecuadoran Housing Bank (BEV), and the Ecuadoran
Development Bank (BEDE)--and 13 finance corporations, including the public National Finance
Corporation (CFN). There were also 11 savings and loans associations; more than 25 insurance
companies; various currency exchange offices and securities markets in Guayaquil and Quito.
The Social Security Institute (IESS) was also a major depository for financial savings. As a
group, commercial banks dominated Ecuador's financial system, and their outstanding loan
portfolio represents 75 percent of total lending to non-bank borrowers.
1.15   Policy maldng agencies are the Monetary Board, BCE, and the Superintendency of
Banks. The Monetary Board sets exchange rate, interest rate, and other financial policies which
are implemented by the BCE and the Superintendency of Banks. BCE also provided credit to
financial intermediaries, including special discount credit lines. The Superintendency of Banks
supervises financial intermediaries and is responsible for publishing statistical information on the
banking system.
1.16 The financial system grew rapidly in the 1970's, mainly because bank ownership granted
access to profitable BCE credit lines and because guarantees for foreign loans to the private
sector grew rapidly and appeared profitable. Additionally, negative real interest rates charged
to final borrowers, and attractive margins and commissions provided to intermediaries,
stimulated lending growth. However, such a situation provided little incentive for financial
institutions to mobilize domestic resources on their own, and they became increasingly dependent
on BCE credits and foreign borrowing for resources. The structurally flawed financial system
which thus arose became all the more fragile because easy granting of bank licenses led to the
establishment of many small, inefficient and undercapitalized banks.
1.17 Between 1973 and 1984 the number of private banks increased from 21 to 32 and finance
companies from 2 to 13. The system suffered grave liquidity problems beginning in 1983 as
foreign resources dwindled and economic conditions deteriorated.  Combined with the
devaluation of the sucre, these factors diminished the ability of borrowers to meet dollar-
denominated obligations guaranteed by the banks. To help financial intermediaries, the
Government carried out a 'sucretization" program under which BCE assumed foreign debts and
the participating institutions became obligated to repay BCE in sucres over a period of up to
seven years. While this program alleviated the liquidity crisis, one of its legacies was that BCE
credit in 1983 financed about 35 percent of the commercial banks' and up to 60 percent of
finance companies' portfolios.



1.18 Prior to the mid-1980's, interest rates were set exclusively by the Monetary Board. Most
interest bearing assets and liabilities were assigned an arbitrarily established interest rate which
was changed from time to time. This mechanism was not responsive to the country's rapidly
changing economic/financial environment characterized by high inflation. During periods of low
inflation the prescribed interest rates were moderately positive in inflation adjusted terms;
however, the inflationary spiral beginning in 1982 quickly turned the balance against depositors.
The resulting periods of negative real interest rates discouraged domestic savings and fomented
capital outflows.
1.19 The first step towards market-determined interest rates occurred in December 1984, when
the Monetary Board allowed banks to set their own rates on Certificates of Deposits (P61izas de
Acumulaci6n) and Financial Certificates. However, the freeing up of rates on these key deposit
instruments heightened interest rate risk for financial institutions that were gathering short-term
deposits and redeploying these funds as longer term loans. The Monetary Board responded to
this problem by allowing financial institutions to use variable rate pricing on loans over one
year. Subsequently, rate ceilings were lifted on selected loan operations. These measures
diminished some of the distortions in the rate structure, although negative real rates were still
prevalent for those instruments subject to controlled rates. This hodgepodge approach of
liberalizing some rates but not others aggravated the distortions arising from the disparity
between the free and the controlled rates, and greatly complicated the process of asset/liability
management at financial institutions.
1.20 The gradual dismantling of this rigidly cumbersome interest rate structure eventually led
to the decision to tie the lending rates directly to a reference or cost of funds rate. For this
purpose, the Monetary Board chose the freely negotiated interest rates on deposits. The
authorities devised a formula to calculate a reference rate from the aforementioned deposit
instruments and established a legal limit on the spread which commercial banks could apply to
this reference rate in order to determine the lending rate that the borrower would pay on the
loan. In August 1988, the Govemment introduced a ceiling of 19 percentage points on spreads
between passbook saving rates and lending rates. However, at that time passbook savings rates
were considered unresponsive to market forces and thus not representative of the banks'
marginal cost of funds. The Government modified the system of spreads in April, 1989 by
allowing commercial banks to set their lending rate at 15 percentage points above a reference
base equal to the arithmetic average of the 90 day CD rate and their respective passbook savings
rate.
1.21  Even though the piecemeal liberalization of interest rates which began in the early 1980's
introduced greater flexibility in the negotiation of financial instruments, this did not assure that
interest rates became freely market determined.  Central Bank and financial institutions
preferential rates--including for SSEs--as well as rates on loans funded through external
resources continued to be administered by the Monetary Board.



-6 -
C.   Project Obiectives and Description
1.22 The project was identified in October 1984, and was prepared by FOPINAR, a
subdivision of CFN3, with the help of Bank staff. It was appraised in November/December
1984 and the appraisal mission's report was completed in March 1986. Negotiations for the
proposed project took place in Washington from August 28-30, 1985 and January 15-22, 1986.
1.23  The project was to continue the initiatives begun under the prior two SSE projects. Its
objectives were to: (i) relieve the scarcity of term financing on reasonable terms to strengthen,
expand, diversify, and modernize existing SSEs; (ii) provide medium-term financing for
permanent working capital to help reduce current idle capacity in the SSE sector; and (iii)
continue expanding FOPINAR's institutional capabilities.
1.24 The project was to provide long-term loans to SSEs to finance: (i) fixed assets, including
appropriately reconditioned, certified and valued used equipment; (ii) permanent working capital;
and (iii) technical assistance for SSEs to prepare or implement sub-projects and improve their
overall productivity. Beneficiaries would correspond normally to firms having less than 25-30
employees before expansion. About 2,100 sub-projects were expected to be financed under the
project with an average investment cost of US$45,000. In addition, a technical assistance (TA)
component of US$200,000 equivalent was included to provide FOPINAR with expertise to help
carry out sub-sectoral studies and technical assistance to SSEs, and purchase micro-computing
equipment.
1.25 In 1980, with Bank support, FOPINAR was established within CFN as a self-contained
financial unit to undertake rediscounting operations. It was structured to be shielded from
CFN's financial difficulties. FOPINAR's management has successfully built an efficient
institution, with a low ratio of administrative costs to outstanding portfolio. The quality of
FOPINAR's portfolio has been good, and it has maintained a sound financial position since its
inception. FOPINAR operations are governed by its Policy Statement which can only be
modified in agreement with the Bank. During project preparation, FOPINAR adopted several
amendments to its Policy Statement designed to improve its operations. These included
measures to increase the share of staff time in project follow-up, and technical assistance;
eligibility guidelines for financial intermediaries were spelled out; and guidelines were included
to focus FOPINAR's sub-project appraisal process on those sectors with high trade protection
or idle capacity.
1.27 A summary of the loan's terms and conditions is provided as an Annex.
3 Established in 1960, CFN is the oldest and largest finance company in Ecuador and the
major provider of medium- and long-term credit to the industrial sector. CFN is wholly
govemment-owned. Although its policies and operations must conform with government
development objectives, CFN is relatively autonomous in its day-to-day operations.



D.   Project Design and Organization
1.28 The project objectives were well focused in two areas: (i) relieving the scarcity of
medium-term financing for SSE's; and (ii) strengthening FOPINAR's institutional capabilities.
The loan, which was the third consecutive facility of this type, provided essential continuity for
FOPINAR's operations. The loan's dimension was appropriately set at US$30 million
equivalent, which represented about 4 percent of total medium- and long-term credit by
commercial banks, finance companies, BNF and CFN to the private sector in 1984. At that
time, over-one year term financing accounted for about 25 percent of total credit by those
institutions to the private sector. In this regard, the loan was properly designed to expand the
availability of medium-term financing.
1.29 A critical feature of the loan was the Borrower's undertaking of the exchange rate risk
associated with the sub-loans to the investment enterprises. This decision was motivated by the
losses incurred in previous devaluations.  The 1983 maxi-devaluation had curtailed the
commercial banks' ability to meet their external debt obligations. In most cases, the banks had
borrowed in dollars in order to finance domestic companies in local currency, thus assuming the
full extent of the foreign exchange risk. The government bailed out the banks by "sucretizing"
their external debt, or converting the dollar loans into sucres and assuming the dollar liability
to the foreign creditors. In view of the prospects of imminent currency instability at the time
of appraisal, it was decided to denominate the subsidiary, FOPINAR and sub-loans in sucres.
Otherwise it was felt that demand for these loans would be minimal since neither the investment
enterprises nor the financial intermediaries would be willing to take on the additional exchange
rate risk. In retrospect this became a loan design problem. Demand for sub-loans from
investment enterprises was very strong because they provided a hedge against devaluation, and
as a result, the Government incurred a substantial foreign exchange loss after the ensuing
devaluations.
1.30 The design of the loan conditionality dealing with interest rate policy was aimed at
rationalizing Ecuador's managed interest rate structure.  It was a noble effort that was
unfortunately plagued with design problems which were mostly due to the idiosyncracies of
Ecuador's interest rate policies. Under the Agreement, certain interest rates were to be positive
in real terms. Interest rates on sub-loans as well as other long-term interest rates (2 years or
more) on loans to the manufacturing, agro-industrial, fisheries, and tourism sectors were to be
tested under the real rates condition. However, this was not a practical definition since the
interest rates that are regulated by the Monetary Board are not classified by economic sectors
but rather by type of lending operation such as preferential or standard lending rates. This
discrepancy complicated the application of the real interest rate test which instead should have
been applied to the specific rates used by the Monetary Board.
1.31  Based on the mutually agreed interpretation of the Loan Agreement, the Bank and the
Borrower specified certain indicators that would be used in testing interest rate policy



- 8 -
compliance. Each rate subject to the real interest rate test was to be compared to the 90 day CD
rate or the seasonally adjusted annual rate of inflation.
1.32  Another complication with the interest rate test was that the affected rates were to be
adjusted to reflect the overall cost of monies to borrowers including commissions, fees, taxes
and the dates on which all amounts were payable. While this calculation would have been more
accurate in measuring the all-in cost of funds to the final borrower, the heterogeneity of terms
applied by financial institutions to some of these components made the application of this
formula unwieldy. A partial adjustment was made to reflect the payment of interest on an
annual yield basis; however, this fell short of the comprehensive method prescribed by the
Agreement. The real problem with interest rate policy was the mismatch between freely
determined and administered rates on both sides of the balance sheet, and not the difference
between the nominal and the effective rates.
1.33 By design, the participating financial intermediary discounted with FOPINAR the sub-
loan to an investment enterprise, with the intermediary retaining the credit risk. This feature
assured that the lending institution would undertake a thorough credit analysis of the applicant
and perform the appropriate loan supervision. In addition, the intermediary was required to
retain at least 10 percent of the sub-loan amount as direct exposure. FOPINAR's risk was thus
limited to that of the participating financial institution.
1.34 Lenders' return on the loan was determined by a spread which varied according to the
terms-4 percentage points for loans up to 6 years and 5 percentage points for longer term loans.
The higher spread reflected the higher degree of risk associated with a longer exposure. While
this may have been a suitable approach to encouraging longer term lending, the magnitude of
the spread may not have adequately compensated for the administrative costs associated with
very small lending operations. For example, under the Industrial Finance Project--loan 2672-
EC--financial intermediaries were offered a 5 percentage points spread on substantially larger
sub-loans to better capitalized investment enterprises. Participating intermediaries were required
to finance at least 10 percent of the value of the SSE sub-loan, while this condition was not
applied in the case of the Industrial Finance Project.
1.35 The spreads on the sub-loans also did not compare favorably to those being earned by
the financial intermediaries on short-term commercial loans. According to Monetary Board
regulations, the maximum interest rate on freely negotiated loans (which included short-term
commercial loans) was set 17 to 19 percentage points above the deposit rate. In most cases, this
spread significantly exceeded those earned on the sub-loan. Thus, financial intermediaries were
more inclined to sidestep this loan and offer more profitable commercial loans to their
customers.
1.36 In view of the preferential interest rates established by the Monetary Board on long-term
loans, financial intermediaries may have had to finance their portion of the sub-loan at
disadvantageous terms. Depending on the structure of their deposit base, these institutions may
have had to pay high market-determined rates on deposits such as the 90 days CD's in order to



redeploy these funds at the lower interest rates applicable to the sub-loans. The potentially
negative interest rate spread on the intermediaries' portion of the loan was an additional deterrent
to participation in this project.
1.37 The technical assistance component of the loan was ambitious. It was aimed at several
areas: (i) carrying out studies to identify industries where import prohibitions were redundant;
(ii) carrying out a review to estimate idle capacity of various industries; (iii) acquisition of
micro-computing equipment; and (iv) training of FOPINAR staff. While the emphasis on
preparation of specialized studies (items i and ii) was well intentioned, the more critical areas
were those dealing with training and institution building of FOPINAR (items iii and iv). As a
second-tier lending institution, FOPINAR's ongoing needs for professional training in evaluating
financial intermediaries were of primary importance. Also, important for the success of the loan
was the technical know-how of the financial intermediaries in the areas of credit analysis and
supervision and the tools at their disposal such as up to date computing technologies and
adequate financial as well as accounting software. Recognizing this, FOPINAR decided to
finance items (i) and (ii) from its own resources and obtained Bank approval to funnel more
funds to training of FOPINAR and other financial intermediaries' staff and to the acquisition of
computer equipment and software. The design of technical assistance to FOPINAR also
appropriately incorporated the development of promotional seminars to reach out to the SSEs
that were outside the formal financial loop.
1.38 Technical assistance was also made available to SSEs as part of the financing facility
under category 1. In addition to fixed assets and working capital, sub-loans could be used to
finance technical assistance as required to carry out a specific project. This innovative feature
was introduced as an amendment to the Agreement.
E.   Project Implementation
1.39 Most of the loan approvals occurred during 1987-88. By March 1988 the Bank had
disbursed US$27.0 million or 90 percent of loan proceeds, compared to about 30 percent
disbursement estimated in the SAR. The strength of demand for FOPINAR funds is explained
by the credit crunch that followed the worsening of the economic environment during the loan's
implementation and the low interest rates of these funds.
1.40 The collapse of oil prices in 1986, followed by a major earthquake in March 1987,
produced a severe shortage of foreign exchange that was further aggravated by the Government's
delayed response to the crisis. In August 1986, the liberalization of exchange rates triggered
maxi-devaluations that fueled inflationary pressures. The 1987 earthquake severely damaged the
oil pipeline, as well as roads and structures in the north and northeast regions of the country.
The authorities had to divert the dwindling foreign exchange reserves to pay for the repairs to
the country's infrastructure, and external debt service was suspended.
1.41 The ensuing liquidity crisis stimulated demand for sub-loans. The private sector was
being squeezed out of the domestic credit markets and forced to seek the much more onerous



- 10 -
terms on external borrowing, when available. SSE's were virtually excluded from access to
long-term financing. They had to rely either on their own limited resources or on money
brokers who charged exorbitant rates. In this regard, the loan helped to avert a more serious
downturn in the economy by providing a lifeline to a sprouting labor-intensive sector of the
economy.
1.42 Another factor that accounts for the strength of demand for FOPINAR funds was the
Borrower's failure to comply with interest rate policy measures. Since interest rates on sub-
loans were set at below-market rates, SSE's were enticed to borrow heavily. At the same time,
the very high risk of devaluations during that period discouraged borrowing in dollars even
though dollar interest rates were quite low compared to sucre interest rates.
1.43 Since only a small proportion of all SSE's had accessed FOPINAR funds in the past, the
lending market was far from saturated. From a credit risk perspective, financial intermediaries
were favorably disposed towards lending to SSE's because of the small companies' above-
average financial condition. The healthy financial status of many SSE's was explained in large
part by their low overall indebtedness.
1.44 The degree of participation by financial intermediaries in the loan was influenced by the
philosophy and management style of the personnel in charge of the SSE lending department.
Those institutions that were oriented to small enterprises such as BNF were very aggressive in
utilizing the loan's resources. Personnel tumover at some institutions materially affected their
participation in the loan. For instance, when the credit officer at Banco Continental who had
managed the SSE facility from the loan's inception left the bank, his successor was not as
supportive of this type of lending program. This situation was more likely to occur in those
institutions where SSEs were not considered one of the target markets and thus lending activity
in that sector depended on the commitment of the individual officer in charge. A similar
experience was noted in FilanBanco which had not been an active participant in the loan until
an ex-BNF official was brought in to manage the SSE department in 1990.
1.45 The PFIs showed mixed responses to sub-loan processing. Some complained of high
administrative and supervision costs associated with very small operations. Unfortunately, the
PFIs did not monitor their internal costs associated with the processing of loans. This type of
information would have made it possible to evaluate the adequacy of the spreads as prescribed
in the Agreement. Accurate information on loan processing and supervision costs would have
been useful in understanding productivity trends and identifying alternative strategies for their
improvement.
1.46 Even though some lenders complained of high direct costs associated with sub-loan
processing, they recognized that participation in the sub-loan enhanced the relationship with their
customers and provided an opportunity to cross-sell other banking services such as cash
management, letters of credit, and deposit accounts. Since FOPINAR discounted up to 90
percent of the sub-loan amount, intermediaries were able to benefit from the spread they earned



- 11 -
on the sub-loan, whenever those spreads were positive, without incurring the interest rate risk
normally associated with the funding of a commercial loan.
1.47 FOPINAR incurred only moderate loan losses as a result of bankruptcies of several PFIs.
One commercial bank, Banco Industrial y Commercial, and three finance companies,
FINANDES, FINANSA, and FINIBER were intervened. Banco Industrial y Commercial and
FINANDES were intervened in 1987 as a result of fraud and liquidated in 1989. FINANSA was
intervened in 1987 after a number of irregularities were discovered in 1985, and liquidated in
1988. FINIBER was liquidated in 1989 at the request of stockholders. In each case, FOPINAR
had made an initial provision to loan loss reserves of 15 percent, and the remaining 85 percent
during the first year after intervention. In this regard, the success of the loan can be attributed
to the use of banks as intermediaries which took the commercial risk.
1.48 During implementation, the average size of FOPINAR loans declined considerably before
levelling off in 19884.
1986        11989
Average loan
size(US$):   30,550      22,014       11,580      11,630
1.49 The decline in average loan size is attributed mostly to specified credit limits in sucres
which resulted in a shrinking dollar value of credit limits as the sucre was devalued. The
sucretization of the loan proceeds as well as lending limits by the Borrower significantly
restricted eligibility standards for many mid-sized SSEs. Under the Agreement the maximum
loan amount was set at US$350,000 and the lending limit of a participating financial
intermediary to US$200,000. However, the Borrower translated these amounts into sucres at
the initial exchange rate and adjusted them from time to time. As a result of maxi-devaluations
and consequent high inflation, the real value of these limits suffered significant erosion. The
dollar equivalent of these sucre limits shrunk from US$350,000 in 1986, to a low of US$91,000
in 1989. While micro enterprises were not affected, medium-sized SSEs were increasingly left
out of the program. This problem could have been resolved by having instituted an automatic
quarterly adjustment to the sucre amount of the dollar limits to reflect currency changes.
Another reason for the reduction in loan size was that a major component of the loan proceeds
were used to purchase previously owned machinery and equipment in the domestic market. The
fact that the sucre price of these capital goods did not rise concomitantly with the sucre's
devaluation meant that the dollar amount of the loans fell accordingly.
1.50 Interest Rate Condition. The management of interest rates was not consistent with the
conditions established in the Loan Agreement. The Loan Agreement called for the Borrower
to set interest rates that were positive in real terms. Despite non-compliance, the Bank decided
4These calculations are based on the average annual exchange rate and may not coincide with
the actual dollar amounts disbursed by the Bank.



- 12 -
not to interrupt loan commitments as with another concurrent Bank loan (2672-EC). The Bank
considered that suspension of commitments would have a serious negative effect on SSEs, which
had no alternative sources of finance. In 1988, in response to the Bank's actions, the
Government adopted a new interest rate policy that was more consistent with positive real
interest rates. Effective August 1988, a formula was introduced linking lending interest rates
to the lender's cost of funds. Interest rates for domestic lending operations were determined by
the passbook savings rate plus a maximum spread of 19 percentage points. In April 1989, the
formula was changed to the average of the 90 day CD and passbook savings rates plus a
maximum spread of 15 percentage points. By blocking loan commitments on another project,
the Bank was influential in the Government's decision to reform its interest rate policy, yet it
did not interrupt the essential flow of resources to SSE's which were more vulnerable than
industrial enterprises to the cutoff in financing.
1.51 While the adoption of a new formula to determine interest rates was an important step
in improving the response of the financial system to market forces, it was only gradually applied
to some lending categories. Initially, only financial institutions' standard loans based on flexible
rate funding such as CD's and savings accounts, were subject to the formula rate. Technically,
this meant that the borrower was still in non-compliance even after disbursements were resumed.
The Agreement had called for positive real interest rates on sub-loans as well all other long-term
loans to the manufacturing, agro-industrial, fisheries or tourism sectors. As shown in table 11
rates on Sub-loans did not meet the conditions--to exceed the lower of the inflation rate or the
90 day CD minus 2 percentage points until December 1990; while the maximum lending rate
as well as the financial institutions' preferential and external funds rates did not pass the test
until February 1991.
1.52 Under the Fourth SSE loan (loan 3162 - EC) approved in February 1990, interest rates
for SSE loans had to be adjusted every 6 months starting June 30, 1990 to reach the free lending
rate by July 1992. In May 1991, the Government advanced by one year the interest rate
adjustment and fully freed interest rates in September 1992.
1.53 Technical Assistance Component. The TA component of the loan was successfully
implemented though with some delays. The loan's closing date had to be extended by 6 months
to allow for the use of the TA component; otherwise the loan could have closed prior to the
original estimate given the brisk pace of disbursements. The promotional and training aspects
of TA were directed both to financial institutions and to SSEs. Workshops for credit officers
from financial institutions were aimed at the areas of credit evaluation and supervision.
Promotional programs for SSEs presented basic information on financing possibilities through
FOPINAR. Numerous training workshops were offered on how to prepare loan applications.
However, FOPINAR staff felt that a number of participants expected that the purpose of the
seminars was to prepare their loan applications. This may in part explain the limited ex-post
response to the FOPINAR SSE workshops in terms of new loan applicants. Part of the technical
assistance funds were also used in preparatory work for the Fourth SSE Loan. Since 1981,
FOPINAR had identified various prospective sources of professional assistance and sought their



- 13 -
cooperation in sponsoring TA programs. FOPINAR's coordination of technical assistance to
SSEs was formalized in the Bank's Fourth SSE Loan.
1.54 The reports on FOPINAR sponsored events and seminars combined the technical
assistance funds for all three SSE Bank loans. Between 1981 and 1987, 224 promotional events
of which 72 were held for 978 participants from PFIs and 152 for 5,625 participants from SSEs.
Training seminars were held during that same period consisting of 48 project evaluation seminars
for 1,242 participants from PFIs, and 46 training sessions for 580 representatives from SSEs.
During 1989, 13 promotional events were held for 242 participants from PFIs and 50 events for
1,678 participants from SSEs. Thirteen training programs for 242 participants from PFIS and
30 programs for 911 participants from SSEs were held. During 1990, 6 promotional events for
270 participants from PFIs, and 6 promotional events for 234 participants from SSEs were held.
Training sessions in that year consisted of 2 for 33 participants from PFIs, and 2 for 60
participants from SSEs.
F.    Project Results
1.55 The main accomplishments of the Third Small Scale Enterprise Credit were:
(a) providing long-term financing for many SSEs for which no other significant sources
of financing existed. Based on reported statistics, the project supported 1,941 loans to SSE's
and micro enterprises. Little over half of the loan amount was disbursed in Guayas and
Pichincha provinces. The concentration in these two geographical areas is reflective of their
economic importance relative to the rest of the country and of the large number of bank branches
in these areas which made it easier for financial intermediaries to reach out to their customers.
The principal sectors in terms of financing were fishing, food products, textiles, clothing, and
basic metallic products which represented about 51 percent of loan proceeds. By and large, the
participation within these sectors reflects their importance to the overall economy. Lending to
other manufacturing and services industries was well diversified with no single industry
accounting for more than 5 percent of total loans. About two-thirds of the projects were for
expansion of existing plant, while one-third were for new facilities.
(b) encouraging the participation of banks in the long-term credit market. The bulk of
lending activity was handled by commercial banks accounting for about 93 percent of loan
proceeds. The biggest user was BNF which channeled about 38 percent of the loan amount.
In terms of volume of operations, BNF originated 62 percent of all loans. As a development
finance specialist focusing on SSE's, BNF's organizational structure is well suited in terms of
staff and branch network to handle a large number of small- to mid-sized lending operations.
Its participation in this loan was a decisive factor in the expedient utilization of the funds. As
per the appraisal, sub-loans financed about 62 percent of the cost of investment projects, the rest
was covered by the companies' internal funds. Of the 62 percent financed through sub-loans,
89 percent consisted of FOPINAR loans, and 11 percent of participation by the financial
intermediaries.



- 14 -
(c) providing effective training to PFIs and SSE's in project evaluation. FOPINAR's
experience with TA and familiarity from previous SSE loan operations ensured satisfactory
results once the programs were initiated. Numerous promotional events were held for officials
from financial institutions, as well as small and micro enterprises. Training seminars were
effective in strengthening project evaluation and loan processing capabilities of the financial
institutions and SSEs.
(d) providing finance to viable projects. From a financial perspective, the quality of the
sub-loans significantly exceeded expectations. As shown in table 7, only 2.5 percent of
FOPINAR loans by commercial banks were in arrears in 1991, the corresponding figure for
finance companies was 1.5 percent. These results compare quite favorably with the percentage
of arrears in their global loan portfolio. However, these figures overstate the extent of non-
performing loans since they did not distinguish between loans past due less than ninety days and
those beyond. The low percentage of loans in arrears demonstrates that small entrepreneurs in
Ecuador tend to be very good payers. SSE's have traditionally relied on internal funds for their
working capital and investment needs so that debt ratios tend to be relatively low. Nevertheless,
as small companies, they are vulnerable to the vagaries of the economic cycle, particularly
during the period of liquidity crisis 1986-88.
(e) strengthening of FOPINAR's second-tier lending skills. Under this loan, FOPINAR
continued developing into an efficient second-tier institution. This experience has been the basis
for CFN's restructuring into a second-tier bank under a global credit line approved by the Bank
in June 1993.
1.56 By assuming the exchange rate risk on the loan, the Borrower incurred substantial losses
following the maxi-devaluations of the currency.  These losses are the financial costs of the
Government's decision to subsidize credit to SSEs. The sub-loans were denominated in local
currency even though a good part of the proceeds were used to purchase imports. Since the
local currency value of the loan was determined at the time the funds were drawn from the
Special Account, the investment enterprise was only exposed to interest rate risk, since the
principal amount of the sub-loan was fixed in sucres.
1.57   Exchange rate losses experienced by the Borrower consisted of two parts: first, the
gains/losses due to the conversion of sucres into dollars whenever debt service payments were
made; and second, the translation losses from converting the principal amount of the loan
outstanding from dollars into sucres. The Technical Note at the end of this report shows an
approximation of the gains/losses accruing from debt service payments and translation of the
principal amount outstanding. It compares the exchange rate cover premium--which results from
deducting the PFIs', CFN's, and BCE's spreads from the sub-loan interest rate, to the sucre cost
to the BCE for making the debt service payment to the Bank. To the extent the Borrower
realizes a gain from debt service payments, which would mean that the amount received from
the FX rate cover fee exceeded the actual interest payments, the surplus is assumed to be
deposited in a FX rate cover fund. At year end 1992, the Borrower had an accumulated loss
of about US$2.0 million in the FX rate cover fund.



- 15 -
1.58 The second component of the exchange rate gains/losses, translation gains/losses, is
realized only when the Borrower repays principal. In view of the repeated sucre devaluations,
in this case the accumulated amounts are losses, which are equal to the difference between the
exchange rate at the time of the repayment and the exchange rate when the sub-loan was
approved. However, the accumulated translation losses will eventually be realized, and thus
must be considered as a liability of the Borrower. Based on the balance outstanding at year-end
1992, the translation losses at that time represented about US$21.5 million. The amount of these
losses will continue to increase as long as there is any balance outstanding on the loan. The
covering of these losses will impose a sizeable burden on the government's finances. As of
year-end 1992, the Borrower's net exposure represented an accumulated loss of US$23.5 million
(US$21.5 million plus US$2.0 million) excluding and US$24.9 including the effect of variations
in the value of the dollar relative to the Bank's basket of currencies which amounted to US$1.44
million.
G.   Project Sustainability
1.59 The financial crisis and bouts of inflation that affected Ecuador during 1986-88 seriously
affected the ability of SSEs to obtain medium- and long-term financing. By injecting much
needed financial resources into the economy, this loan provided a boost to the SSEs and helped
to ensure a sustainable recovery. The low incidence of problem loans demonstrates that risk
factors were effectively mitigated by the participating financial intermediaries. However, the
assumption of exchange rate risk by the Borrower resulted in an additional fiscal burden which
has undermined the Government's finances. Recognition of these losses has prompted the
Government to decide that loans from multilateral institutions should be onlent in the currency
of these loans to avoid the possibility of the Government having to assume the exchange losses.
Interest rate policy reforms applied in 1989 put the loan back on track and achieved a healthier
environment for the financial system.  This bodes well for the continued satisfactory
performance of this loan and for the sustainability of the subsequent Fourth SSE Credit Project.
H.   Bank Performance
1.60 This was the third in a series of special loan facilities for SSEs and as such the Bank had
the benefit of hindsight from the experience with the first two. The staff appropriately
structured the Loan Agreement to give as much autonomy as possible to FOPINAR in the
implementation of the project. The appraisal mission produced a satisfactory assessment of
FOPINAR's needs and correctly identified the potential beneficiaries in terms of industries and
credit demands. Although modest in their scope, the inclusion of interest rate policy measures,
as part of loan conditionality in tandem with other Bank loans helped to induce a more positive
response from the Government on policy reforms.
1.61 Loan supervision was satisfactory during the crucial initial two year phase of the project.
A particularly thorough evaluation of the project results was performed in January 1988 after
98 percent of the sub-loans had been approved by FOPINAR. Through the TA component the
Bank's staff facilitated institution-building at FOPINAR. In particular, it contributed to the



- 16 -
expansion of essential operational staff to handle the increased workload at FOPINAR, and
prompted CFN to review with greater scrutiny its assessment of fees charged to FOPINAR
which had placed a heavy burden on that entity's budget.
1.62 While FOPINAR complied satisfactorily with the execution of promotional and training
programs, a more active role in evaluating the outcome of these events could have generated
useful insights on their effectiveness. FOPINAR would have benefited from more Bank
guidance in the area of ex-post analysis of loans. FOPINAR has produced abundant data on
individual sub-loans that needs to be analyzed both in a micro and macro context to get a better
understanding of the true economic impact of these projects.
1.63 Greater supervision of FOPINAR's operational practices would have been helpful in
streamlining sub-loan processing. Some financial intermediaries complained that FOPINAR
reviewed and approved every loan even those under the free-limit.
I.    Borrower/Executing Agency Performance
1.64 The success of the loan can be attributed to FOPINAR's effective organizational structure
and extensive experience in lending to SSEs. Performance improved during the loan through
consolidation of policies and procedures. FOPINAR aggressively promoted the loan facility
through numerous events for PFIs and SSEs. An adequate level of staffing helped to support
the ongoing lending program. Continuous training of FOPINAR staff as well as staff from PFIs
and SSEs has enhanced the quality of project evaluation and credit analysis. FOPINAR
developed quite rapidly into a respected second-tier institution, which can respond to the shifting
needs of its small-scale clientele.
1.65 FOPINAR developed a data base on PFIs in order to monitor their earnings, asset
quality, and capital adequacy and devised a grading system that would help it to anticipate any
problems that could result in arrears or possible loan losses from those institutions. This has
reinforced FOPINAR's technical capabilities in the management of credit risk which is crucial
to its financial standing.
1.66 Despite significant progress in performance, some deficiencies were encountered in the
operational area. The annual FOPINAR budget was not presented to the Bank as called for by
the Loan Agreement but only after considerable delays. Supervision missions reported weak
communications between FOPINAR and CFN staff which resulted in loan approval and
disbursement delays. Also, FOPINAR failed to comply with timely submission of audited
reports to the Bank. Similar delays occurred frequently with the presentation of audited reports
on the project account by the Central Bank. Ex-post sub-loan supervision needed strengthening.
Improvements were noted in the preparation of annual surveys of SSEs which provided good raw
data on some of the basic indicators such as employment and sales; however, more analysis of
this information should have been forthcoming. FOPINAR should have made greater efforts to
identify weaknesses in SSE's and their TA needs.



- 17 -
1.67 FOPINAR's financial performance improved significantly during the period of this loan,
except for a loss in 1989 incurred as a result of a sizeable provision for loan losses. Excluding
1989, return on assets averaged a healthy 2.78 percent during 1987-90, while return on equity
yielded an average of 22.98 percent. Net interest margin improved noticeably from 3.69 percent
in 1987 to 8.69 percent in 1990. The 1990 net interest margin compared favorably with the
average for commercial banks of 8.37 percent. FOPINAR's interest margins significantly
exceeded the 2.5 percent spread it earned on the loan.
1.68 Operating expenses during this period were dominated by two items. The first was the
one time increase in loan loss reserves, and the second were the fees charged by CFN to
FOPINAR for provision of services. As a result of a sizeable increase in loan loss reserves in
1989, FOPINAR's reserves reached a satisfactory level of 3.19 in 1990. This reflects a more
conservative management philosophy regarding asset quality when compared to commercial
banks' loan loss provision average of 2.79 percent of loans, even though FOPINAR's percentage
of loans in arrears was lower than commercial banks'.
1.69 Excluding 1989, CFN fees averaged 64.5 percent of total operating expenses of
FOPINAR. For an institution like FOPINAR, these charges appear to be excessive, particularly
when compared to personnel expenses which represented an average of 22.81 percent of
operating expenses for the same period. Traditionally CFN charges an amount based on an
informal survey performed once a year of how much time its staff spent on FOPINAR related
activities. However, a more detailed survey was to be performed in 1986. At the time of this
report, the conflict between FOPINAR and CFN over the allotted fees had not been resolved,
nor had CFN performed an acceptable internal audit of the charges passed on to FOPINAR.
1.70 Technical training of FOPINAR staff appears to have worked well. However, the
question is whether TA for SSEs produced the desired results. FOPINAR reports on various
events and seminars are adequately explained; but these reports combined the results for all Bank
lending operations. Future reports should separate activities by individual Bank line. In
addition, more follow up is needed in terms of the actual benefits received by SSEs that
participated in different programs as well as their feedback on individual sessions. Little
utilization of technical assistance financing under the sub-loan facility should be evaluated to
identify why SSEs were not responsive to this facility and what needs to be done to ensure
greater usage in the future. FOPINAR should make greater effort to identify weaknesses in
SSEs and their TA needs. FOPINAR's good track record on supervision should be easily
transferrable to include more intensive scrutiny of administrative and organizational weaknesses
of SSEs as part of overall loan supervision activities.
J.    Project Relationship
1.71 Relationships between the Borrower and the Bank and the Executing Agency and the
Bank were generally cordial. FOPINAR staff worked closely with the Bank in all areas of loan
implementation.  This was an influential factor in the loan's success.  Low turnover at
FOPINAR contributed to a good working relationship with the Bank.



- 18 -
K.   Project Documentation and Data
1.72   The project appraisal report contained extensive information that proved to be quite
useful in the proper structuring of this loan. A special survey of 101 SSE's conducted by the
appraisal mission provided a critical mass of information to identify financing and technical
assistance needs of SSEs. The appraisal report also contained detailed analysis of FOPINAR's
financial statements with projections for the period up to the estimated loan closing date, as well
as projections of staff utilization by individual staff member and by various functions such as
promotion, analysis and supervision. The loan demand estimates in the appraisal proved to be
quite accurate.
1.73 The Loan Agreement was well structured in terms of the financial conditions attached to
different lending vehicles such as the subsidiary, FOPINAR, and sub-loans. Some ambiguity
in the language was noted in the policy conditionality dealing with interest rate policy; reflecting
the ambiguous way in which such conditionality was addressed in the SAR. Also, there was a
misstatement in the Loan Agreement: Section 3.02 (iii) which implies that CFN was to assume
part of the exchange rate risk since it was supposed to pay the interest rate payable by the
Borrower to the Bank. In practice, however, the parties followed the spirit of the agreement
which implied assumption of the exchange risk by the government. The other covenants in the
Legal Agreement seemed to abide by standard Bank lending policies and procedures.
1.74 Some of the information made available for PCR preparation was not satisfactory.
FOPINAR has compiled a considerable amount of information on sub-loans which needs to be
consolidated, synthesized, and organized in a format that can be better analyzed. Some
inaccuracies were discovered in the information provided by FOPINAR. These errors were
found mostly in totals and sub-totals which did not add up from the individual items in data
tables. The information on the economic impact of the project needs to be re-arranged by
industry in order to calculate average rates of return that can be used in comparing individual
companies within an industry category. The employment generation data should be compared
to the base of employment prior to the investment project in order to measure the relative impact
of the project. Overall, FOPINAR gathered an extensive amount of raw data, but it needs to
be refined.
1.75 A critical problem with the data provided by FOPINAR was that the loan amounts were
reported only in sucres. Sub-loans were denominated in sucres even though there was a
corresponding dollar disbursement by the Bank upon approval of the application. Because of
this, the information presented in this report, which shows disbursements in sucres by year, does
not reconcile with the Bank's own disbursements in dollars. Nevertheless, the figures are still
accurate indicators of loan utilization. In the future, FOPINAR should establish a dollar
accounting method whereby the dollar amount of disbursements by each sub-loan will add up
to those reported by the Bank.



- 19 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
THIRD SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2673-EC)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. The Borrower and the Executing Agency.
2.1   Use of the Loan Funds. The US$29.8 million credit component of the loan was utilized
by June 1990. However, the utilization of the US$200,000 technical assistance component was
delayed due to the several changes in the destination of the resources. As a result, it was
necessary to request two extensions of the loan's closing date.  The technical assistance
component was utilized by December 31, 1992.
2.2   According to the Loan Agreement, the use of the funds would have taken six years,
starting with the initial disbursements in early 1987. However, the credit component was
utilized in abut half that time. This rapid utilization prompted the request to the World Bank
for a Fourth SSE loan, currently under execution.
2.3  It is worth pointing out that during the execution of this project, the Monetary Board
introduced a variable interest rate regime to allow rates to adjust better to the variations in the
cost of funds. This new regime required some adaptation by the beneficiaries, which prevented
a faster and more regular use of the resources.
2.4   Project Financing. CFN contributed with US$5.25 million from its own resources, in
addition to the World Bank resources. To participate in the program, the private banks and the
BNF had to contribute an additional 10 percent from their own resources to the financing
package; that is US$3.9 million. Therefore, the total funds used in sub-project financing
reached US$38.95 million.
2.5   Project Results. The project has generated important benefits for the SSE sector and the
economy in general. The main effects have been the strengthening of the productive and
financial activities; generation of employment; and participation of new entrepreneurs in
economic activities. Also, the project has contributed to decentralization and diversification of
SSEs activities. These effects can be deducted from the following data:
Credit provided          8,289.8 million sucres
Number of sub-loans      1,941



- 20 -
New projects      428
expansion          1,513
Investment generated     13,361.6 million sucres
Value Added generated    20,568.5 million sucres
Financial Intermediaries    35
Provinces benefited      20
2.6   Debt Service. CFN as Executing Agency, and the National Government as Borrower,
have complied with all their obligations of debt payments within the terms established in the
legal agreements. The principal and interests due are debited by the Borrower from the current
account that CFN has in the Central Bank. The Borrower makes the respective payments in
foreign exchange to the World Bank.
B. Relations with the World Bank.
2.7   During the utilization of the loan--since March 30, 1987, date of the first disbursement--
the main difficulty that produced delays in the use of the resources has been the frequent
insufficiency of funds in the Special Account established in the Central Bank. CFN informed
the World Bank about this problem, which was later investigated by a Bank consultant during
a supervision mission in September 1988. The Bank's recommendations were instrumental in
making more efficient the Central Bank's handling of the Special Account, including procedures
for requesting its replenishment.
2.8   From the point of view of the Executing Agency, we understand that the relationship
between the Bank and the Borrower was effective, since soon after the resources of the Third
SSE Loan were utilized, a Fourth SSE Loan was promptly negotiate in terms beneficial for both
parties. This Fourth SSE Loan is under execution and is problem free.
C. Relations Between CFN and PFIs.
2.8  It is important to point out that, in addition to the financial support provided by CFN,
the project has helped to establish an environment conducive to further actions to help the PFIs
and the ultimate beneficiaries. In early 1988, CFN hired a consultant to assess the benefits that
PFIs derived from having access to FOPINAR funds, identify the problems they faced, and
propose solutions. Over one hundred interviews with PFIs provided the following results:
- CFN had a good image as the project's Executing Agency. PFIs indicated that CFN
managed the rediscount facility with effectiveness and professionalism.
- Although PFIs recognized that for medium- and long-term lending they had to carry out
a detailed analysis and evaluation of the sub-projects, they found that rediscount



- 21 -
procedures were time consuming and that they required extensive documentation and
information.
- PFIs indicated that their spreads under the project could have been increased.
However, they recognized that by participating in the program they obtained additional
benefits such as: diversification of their portfolio, provision of additional services to their
clients, and access to technical assistance. Also, by participating in the program, PFIs
felt that they had the opportunity to contribute to the country's development.
- Lack of information about the program among entrepreneurs was identified as an
important difficulty in the implementation of the program. PFIs indicated that many SSE
entrepreneurs had poor managerial capabilities and had difficulties in putting together
viable project proposals, which resulted in high preparation time and additional costs for
the PFIs.
- Good relations and communication between CFN and PFIs have been important
elements in the success of the program. This relationship made it possible a close
cooperation in analyzing problems and finding solutions. Nevertheless, PFIs suggested
ways to improve further this collaboration by trying to resolve problems through direct
telephonic contact between officials from CFN and the PFIs, rather that through written
communications.
2.9   The conclusions and recommendations of this review helped CFN to expand and redirect
its efforts in the areas of diffusion of information, training and technical assistance directed both
to the PFIs and the ultimate beneficiaries of the loan. Also, the conclusions allowed CFN to
improve its communications with PFIs, improve the training of CFN's staff and simplify the
documentation and information required to rediscount the subloans. These recommendations
were incorporated in the design of the follow up operation--Fourth SSE Loan--which included
a more focused technical assistance component, increased approval autonomy for the PFIs,
greater decentralization of the rediscount operations among CFN's branches, and improved
disbursement procedures within CFN.



- 22 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loans Title             Purpose          Years of         Status         Comments
Approval
Second SSE Credit Project    Credit Line         12/1982     Closed
Industrial Finance Project    Hybrid Credit Line  10/1986    Closed
Fourth SSE Credit Project    Credit Line         02/1990     In Execution
Private Sector Development   Credit Line         06/1993     Approved
2.    Proiect Timtable
Date Planned           Revised Date            Actual Date
Identification                 10/01/84                                       10/01/84
Appraisal Mission              11/19/84                  _                    11/19/84
LoanlCredit Negotiations       04/22/85               08/26/85
Board Approval                 07/02/85               12/19/85               03/27/86
Loan/Credit Signature         04/10/86                   _                   04/10/86
Loan/Credit Effectiveness      07/10/86               10/15/86                12/15/86
Loan/Credit Closing            03/31/92               09/30/92                12/31/92
Loan/Credit Completion                                                       04/30/93
3. Loan/Credit Disbursements
Date of First Disbursement:                    FY87 (3rd. Quarter)
Initial Loan Closing Date:                     03/31/92
First Extension Loan Closing Date:             09/30/92
Date of Last Disbursement:                     04/30/93
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY              86      87      88      89     90     91      92      93
Appraisal Estimate     0.6        4.8    7.5   7.8       5.1    3.0      1.2
Actual                 -         12.9   14.48   1.68    0.72   0.17       -
Actual as % of Estimate  _      269%    193%   22%      14%    6%         _



- 23 -
4. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle          Period         Staff Weeks
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~(FY )_ _ _  _   _
Through Appraisal                         85             58.2
Appraisal through Board Approval
86             15.7
Board Approval through Effectiveness
86-91            23.2
Supervision
TOTAL                                              97.1
B. Missions
Month/   Number of    No. of         Staff      Dates of   Overall Project
Year      Persons      Weeks       Weeks        Report    Status Rating
Identification  10/84         3           2             6.0
Appraisal       11/84         4           3            15.2    12/14/84
Supervision     05/86         1           1             1.0    05/08/86          1
Supervision     11/86         1       9 days            1.8    12/09/86          1
Supervision     01/88         4       11 days           8.8    02/24/88          1
Supervision     04/90         2       3 days            0.6    04/27/90          1
Supervision     05/91         1       3 days            0.6    06/10/91          1
Subtotal



- 24 -
ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE LOAN 5.
Loan Amount:             $30.0 million
Borrower:         Republic of Ecuador
Term and Rate:    Loan repayable over 17 years with 4 years of grace, at the Bank's variable interest
rate and charges.
Effectiveness:    Upon signing of the Subsidiary loan agreement in December 12, 1986.
Allocation:
Category 1:       $29.8 million made available to CFN (under a Subsidiary loan agreement) to
discount initial intermediary loans (under a FOPINAR loan agreement) to small and
micro enterprises (under a sub-loan agreement) to finance fixed assets, permanent
working capital and [technical assistance]. [The Bank's loan was to finance 85
percent of the value of the sub-loan.]
Category 2:       $0.2 million Technical Assistance made available to FOPINAR for the following
purposes: (i) carrying out of studies to identify industries where import prohibitions
are redundant (to be completed by December 1986); (ii) carrying out reviews to
estimate idle capacity of borrower's industry at the sectoral and regional levels; (iii)
acquisition and utilization of micro-computing equipment and supplies; and (iv)
training of FOPINAR staff.
Subsidiary Lan
Description:      A loan from the Borrower, through BCE, to CFN denominated in sucres. The
purpose of this loan was to transfer the Bank's funds to CFN which would act as
the administrator of this project.
Term:             Loan repayable over 17 years with 4 years grace.
Interest Rate:    CFN to pay the Borrower the difference derived from the interest rate on the sub-
loan, less PFIs' spread (4 or 5 percent depending on sub-loan tenor), less
FOPINAR spread (2.5 percent), less BCE loan servicing fee (1/8 percent).
FOPINAR Loan:
Description:      A loan from CFN through FOPINAR to the PFI denominated in sucres. The PFI
was required to enter into a Participation Agreement with CFN before qualifying
for a FOPINAR loan. The purpose of this loan was to fund the original sub-loan
made by the PFI to a SSE via a discount operation, although the intermediary
retained the credit risk of the sub-loan.
5 Items enclosed by [... ] were introduced through an amendment to the Loan Agreement.



- 25 -
Term:             Same as sub-loan.
Interest:         CFN to charge the PFI an interest rate equal to the rate applicable on the sub-loan
less a fee of four percentage points, if the tenor of the sub-loan was less than six
years, or five percentage points if the tenor was six or more years. This rate
included a FOPINAR spread of 2.5 percentage points
Fee:              A front-end fee of 1 percent of the principal amount to be paid to FOPINAR.
Documentation:    For each application for a FOPINAR loan the PFI had to provide a summary
description of the investment project and the terms and conditions of the sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization.
Loan Limits:      The FOPINAR loan to the PFI was not to exceed 90 percent of value of the sub-
loan and the intermediary was to finance not less than 10 percent of the sub-loan
amount with its own funds.
Sub-loan:
Description:      A loan from a PFI, which had entered into a Participation Agreement with CFN,
to a small scale or [micro scale] investment enterprise denominated in sucres.
Term:             Maximum tenor on sub-loans was 10 years, with up to 3 years grace, except on
portion of sub-loan not covered by the FOPINAR loan.
Interest:         Interest charged on the loan to be established by the borrower from time to time and
be payable semiannually.
Fee:              A front-end fee of 1 percent of the principal amount to be paid to the PFI.
Loan Limits:      A sub-loan, when added to all other Sub-loans to an investment enterprise under
this loan was not to exceed US$350,000.
Free Limits:      Loan approval limit for a PFI was established initially at US$200,000. Any sub-
loans beyond this limit required prior Bank authorization.
Supervision:      CFN had to maintain procedures, records and accounts for FOPINAR to monitor
and record progress adequately on each investment project.
Documentation:    The loan documentation had to include a calculation of the expected economic rate
of return if the investment project required financing of more than US$100,000.
Eligibility:      To qualify for a sub-loan an investment company had to be considered a small scale
or [micro scale as of amendment dated October 7, 1986] enterprise with primary
business activity in manufacturing, agro-industry, tourism, fisheries, or related
industrial services and marketing activities. The small scale enterprise criteria were:
(i) fixed assets, excluding land and buildings, of less than US$350,000; and (ii)
whose total assets including the cost of the investment project to be financed by the



- 26 -
loan were less than US$750,000. [The micro scale enterprise criteria was fixed
assets, excluding land and buildings, of less than US$22,000.]
Special Account:   A US$3.2 million Special Account was established in the BCE by Amendment to
the Loan Agreement of October 7, 1986.
Conditionalitv
Interest Rates:  The Borrower was to establish from time to time interest rates applicable to the sub-
loans and all other long-term loans (2 years or more) to the manufacturing, agro-
industrial, fisheries, and tourism sectors, which shall be positive in real terms.
A mutually agreed upon interpretation of the Loan Agreement established that
interest rates would be deemed to be positive in real terms if they exceeded the
lower of the following up to June 30, 1987: (i) 85 percent of the 90 day CD rate;
or (ii) the seasonally adjusted annual rate of inflation. After June 30, 1987 the
conditions were: (i) 2 percentage points below the 90 day CD; or (ii) the seasonally
adjusted annual rate of inflation.
Effective rates of interest on both loans and deposits had to be computed taking into
account commissions, fees, taxes, and the dates on which all amounts are payable.
Seasonally adjusted inflation to be calculated as the arithmetic moving average of
the percentage change in the consumer price index 6 months preceding the interest
review date or latest 6 months available.
CFN Management: CFN had to operate FOPINAR in accordance with FOPINAR's Statement of
Policies and Procedures, and furnish to the Bank no later than November 30 of each
year the proposed annual budget for FOPINAR.



- 27 -
ANNEX2
TECHNICAL NOTE
Calculation of Foreign Exchange Gains I Losses (-)
1.    According to the Agreement, the Government (Borrower) was to assume the exchange rate risk of this
loan. The final borrower, or SSE was to receive a sub-loan denominated in sucres. The Borrower in turn would
undertake the exchange rate risk of converting the sucres into U.S. dollars and then into the other currencies
comprising the Bank's loan basket of currencies. For purposes of this analysis, the Borrower's all-in cost of
funds includes a measure of foreign exchange gains/losses. This technical note explains the methodology used
in calculating those gains/losses and presents an estimated value during the period 1986 - 1992.
2.     Foreign exchange gains or losses occur in this case whenever a change in the exchange rate alters the
sucre value of the Borrower's financial obligation to the Bank. These gains/losses are realized at the time the
Borrower makes a debt service payment of either interest or principal. However, whenever the exchange rate
changes, the sucre value of the financial obligation also changes. The component of foreign exchange exposure
that is not yet realized, the unpaid balance of principal or any interest arrears, must be reported as accounting
or translation exposure. According to U.S. accounting standards, this exposure is recorded in the capital account
as cumulative translation adjustment, which represents unrealized gains/losses. As the gains/losses are realized,
the corresponding amounts are entered in the profit/loss statement and the capital account is then debited or
credited by the affected amount.
3.     While the translation gains/losses are not yet realized, they measure the Borrower's eventual exposure.
However, these gains/losses will continue to change for the duration of the financial obligation and the magnitude
of the change will depend on future variazions in the exchange rate. In the case of Ecuador, it may be valid to
assume that the sucre will continue to depreciate in value against the U.S. dollar. Therefore, translation losses
will continue to increase until the loan has been fully amortized.
4.     As a hedge against exchange gains/losses, the Borrower set up a reserve fund derived from the interest
payments made by the SSE. According to the formula, the difference between the interest rate on the SSE sub-
loan and the intermediary spreads owed to CFN, participating financial intermediaries (PFIs) and BCE's servicing
fee would constitute the reserve fund. Thus the calculation of the gains/losses from debt service was net of this
amount.
5.     Part I of the table shows the worksheet calculations used to derive the net gains/losses presented in Part
1I. Because these calculations are based on the Bank's report of disbursements and repayments, the figures on
gains/losses represent estimates of the actual amounts. To compute the exact values, it would be necessary to
obtain the actual disbursement schedule for each sub-loan, which was not available for the preparation of this
PCR. Nevertheless, the differences between this report's estimates and the actual figures are not likely to differ
significantly given the very close correlation between the Bank's disbursements and the actual booking of the sub-
loan.
6.     The Borrower's contribution to the exchange gains/losses reserve fund is designated as BCE FX Rate
Cover in Part I of the table. The interest rate equivalent of the FX Rate Cover shown in the fifth column was
determined according to the above mentioned formula. The effective interest rate in the sixth column is the sucre
equivalent interest rate that the Borrower pays to the Bank. Both the FX Rate Cover and the Effective Interest



- 28 -
rates are calculated in terms of the adjusted loan balance, which represents the sucre equivalent of the sub-loan
to the IE.
7.     The calculation of the net gains from debt service shown in Table 11-A consists of two elements. The
first are the gains/losses on interest payments which are equal to the difference in sucre terms between interest
payments and the FX Rate Cover shown in Part I columns seven and eight. The second are the gains/losses on
principal payments which are equal to the actual amount of principal repayment times the difference between the
historical and the current exchange rate. Both of these components are incorporated in the net gains/losses shown
in Table I1-A. In accounting practice, the historical exchange rate represents the rate at the time of conversion
from dollars into sucres of a World Bank disbursement which then becomes an IE sub-loan. Absent information
on the disbursement of each sub-loan, for purposes of this analysis, the historical exchange rate is estimated as
the implicit value of the exchange rate derived from the adjusted loan balance (Part I column (9) divided by
column (3). This measures an average exchange rate based on the semi-annual disbursements reported by the
Bank.
8.    The accumulated translation gains/losses in Table IU-B represent, in this case, the losses that would be
realized if the loan was repaid at that date. Future devaluations of the sucre would increase the size of these
losses. As the loan is paid off, the realized losses would be reported in Table II-A and the accumulated
gains/losses in Table 11-B would be reduced by these amounts.
9.    The Borrower's net exposure, and thus eventual loss from exchange rate changes, can be estimated by
netting the results from the accumulated translation gains/losses with the FX rate cover fund balance shown in
Table II-C. To the extent the Borrower realizes a gain from debt service payments, which would mean that the
amount received from the FX rate cover fee exceeded the actual interest payments, the surplus is assumed to be
deposited in an account labeled FX rate cover fund. For purposes of this analysis, it is assumed that these funds
are re-invested at a rate of interest equal to the FX rate cover equivalent rate. If the FX rate cover fund balance
is positive, then the Borrower can offset future debt service losses against this reserve fund; if it is negative, then
it would be combined with the accumulated translation gains/losses to arrive at the overall FX losses. As of
December 1992, the Borrower's net exposure represented an accumulated loss of US$23.5 million (US$21.5
million plus US$2.0 million) excluding and US$24.9 including the effect of variations in the value of the dollar
relative to the Bank's basket of currencies which amounted to US$1.44 million (see note for Table II-B).
However, if in the future the Borrower's domestic interest rates rise sufficiently so that the FX Rate Cover results
in sizeable reserves increases into the FX Rate Cover Fund, these amounts could conceivably reduce the net
overall losses to be realized from repayment of the loan.
10.   All the formulas used in the estimation of the exchange rate gain/losses are shown on the page after the
tables.
FORMULAS USED IN CALCULATING THE FX GAINS / LOSSES
1. Central Bank (BCE) exchange rate cover (%):
Rates on SSE sub-loans(%) - CFN spread(%) - PFIs spread(%) - BCE servicing fee(%)
2. Effective interest rate (%):
(Interest payment(S/. Mill.) * 2) / (Adjusted loan balance(S/. Mill.))



- 29 -
3. Interest payment (SI. Mill.):
(Loan balance(US$ Mill.) * (World Bank US$ interest rate(%) / 2) * (Exchange rate(S/.perUS$))
4. Exchange rate cover (SI. Mill.):
( BCE FX rate cover(%) I 2) * (Adjusted loan balance(S/. Mill.))
5. Adjusted loan balance (SI. Mill.):
( Adjusted loan balance(S/. Mill.) [previous period] ) + ( Disbursement(US$ Mill.) * (Exchange
rate(S/.per US$) + exchange rate(S/.per US$)[previous period] ) I 2) - (Principal payment(US$ Mill.)
* (Historical loan exchange rate[previous period]))
6. Historical loan exchange rate (SI. per US$):
( Adjusted loan balance(S/. Mill) ) I ( Loan balance(US$ Mill.) )
7. Net gains I losses (-) from debt service (SI. Mill):
( FX rate cover(S/. Mill.) - Interest payment(S/. Mill.) ) + ( Principal payment(US$ Mill.) * Historical
loan exchange rate(S/. per US$)[previous period] ) - (Principal payment(US$ Mill.) * Exchange rate(S/.
per US$) )
8. Accumulated translation gains I losses (-):
( Adjusted loan balance(S/. Mill.) - ( Loan balance(US$ Mill) * Exchange rate(S/. per US$)))
9. FX rate cover fund balance (SI. Mill.):
( ( Accumulated sum of net gains/losses from debt service(S/. Mill.)[previous period] * (1 + ((BCE
FX rate cover(%)[previous period] + BCE FX rate cover(%) ) I 2))) + ( Net gains/losses from debt
service(S/. Mill.) ) * ( 1 + ( BCE FX rate cover(%) / 2 ) ) ) 22



THIRD SSE: CALCULATION OF FOREIGN EXCHAGE GAINS / LOSSES (-), PART I
LU         ID         WIN   PATNT co   P1 a          I                      Fx RATE        MU    M. IU   KM. LOU
oMM M    FR1EI     rUWI n            LOAN       cQW          ATE     PAYf         Wm          RM       BA1NCE    EX RA
$NiW1.   I$ Nii.  VB  Mill.  US$ Mill.          (%)        (t)     S/. NW.  S/. Kil.  S/.per$  S/. ni.   S/. ill.
(1)        (2)        (3)         (4)        (5)        (6)         (7)        (8)        (9)         (10)       (U)
1987 JIM     $12.9        Mo.o      $12.9       $0.0       19.58t      0.00:       0.0       193.5      159.6    1,976.6       153.3
M3C       $7.8       $0.0      $20.6        $0.4      21.78:      5.14:       88.2      373.4      215.1    3,428.6       1.66.1
1988 JoM      $6.7        $0.0      $27.4       $0.8       26.24%      8.02%     200.2       655.0      250.0    4,993.4       182.4
Mec       $1.2       $0.0      s28.6        $1.1      26.24%     18.29%      495.6      711.0      449.8    5,420.2       189.5
1989 Jo       $0.5        $0.0      $29.1       $1.1       26.25%     19.94%     563.0       741.2      535.3    5,64.5        194.4
DeC       $0.0       $0.0      $29.1        $1.0      26.25%      23.48%     663.3      T41.2       640.4    5,648.5      194.4
1990 jug      $0.7        $0.0      $29.8       $1.1       37.55%     27.06%     832.0    1,154.9       757.7    6,150.4       206.5
DMC       $0.1       $1.2      $28.7        $1.2      45.15%     35.24%    1,051.7    1,347.5      878.7    5,969.0       208.2
1991 Jug      $0.1       $1.2       $27.6       $1.2      45.74%      40.76%   1,184.9    1,329.8    1,024.9    5,814.4        210.8
]EC       $0.0       $1.2      $26.4        $1.1      51.90%      49.22%   1,371.3    1,445.9    1,275.1    5,5n.9        210.8
1992 JUN      $0.0        $1.2      $25.2       $1.1       51.72%     56.68%    1,508.0    1,375.9    1,436.2    5,321.0       210.8
liC       $0.0       $1.2      $24.0        $1.1      53.41%     84.28%    2,131.6    1,350.8    2,000.0    5,058.4       210.8
I1



THIRD SSE: CALCULATION OF FOREIGN EXCAG1  GAINS / LOSSES (-), PART II
-~ 61IUT ED                                      I!
(-)~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Y-
F    MT        n                    GXS/         Dl
5eWIaN      llSSs                 rcM   H-         lB5S
(SJ. Ni.) (S$ 1111.)               (St. Nl) t(     Nl-)
1987      478.7        $2.6               (1,012.6       ($4.7)
1988      670.2        $1.9               (17,440.7      $16.5)
1989      256.2        $0.4               12,90.7       (.2
1990     (182.4        $0.21              19,217.9       $21.9
9"    (1,965 7        $1.73               28,133.0      $22.1 
1992   t4,9.8          $2.7)              42,935.3)      $21.5)j
Mle: 1I1--C
nr u1s  BE1m~                                                                    -.
BALAE       m$'s
(S/. Bill.) (ll$ MILL.)
1987      530.9        S2.8
1988    1,428.3        $4.1
1989    2,093.0        $3.6
1990    2,735.0        $3.3
1991    1,594.4        $1.4
1992   (3,395.7)      ($2.0)
1 The fiM  for accmulated translatim  gins/los   des not iclide the effect of cbane  in the valim of the dollar in tens of the llrld Bank's
basket of cureacies. As of year end 1992, the accw lated losses frcu the dollar's depreciation relative to the basmet of cmrecies  as about 6% of the
total dalm of the loaa outstaudixg. This reprumted an additional cumlative loss of $1.44 million, which when added to the cmulative translation loss
yields a total cunlative loss of SZ3 . 5Uiliou.



TBLE: 1
THIRD $E: LOAN CRACTERISTICS
(sucres)
1985                      1986                      1987                        1988                      1989                      1990
TOTAL: INVESIT PROJECT                 2,785,000.00          2,688,231,031.66            7,138,347,451.69           2,412,603,728.77          1,112,671,426.69              6,946,200.00
MTMAL: LXN APR:E                       2,349,800.00          1,572,383,344.73            4,511,950,655.63           1,483,949,263.81            713,295,015.00              5,904,270.00
MMTAL: DISBURSED                       2,114,820.00          1,376,212,421.48            4,022,955,387.35           1,379,544,834.44            636,797,136.07             14,763,843.00
NMDBER OF LIOS                                    2                       367                        1072                        395                       104                         1
P1EISE:
XPANSION                               2,349,800.00            938,938,676.48            3,029,790,342.30             978,254,587.81            466,572,683.00              5,904,270.00
EXPANSION(AVG. CREDIT)                 1,174,900.00              3,529,844.64                3,556,091.95               3,095,742.36              6,139,114.25              5,904,270.00
EPANSION(DICOUNT)                      2,114,820.00            827,508,989.11            2,693,661,876.72             905,441,838.25            422,059,447.27              5,313,843.00
EXPANSION(AVG. DISCO L   )             1,057,410.00              3,110,936.04                3,161,574.97               2,865,322.27              5,553,413.77              5,313,843.00
11118R OF LOUS                                    2                        266                         852                       316                        76                         1
NEW                                                            633,444,668.25            1,482,160,313.33             505,694,676.00            246,722,332.00
REW (AVG. CRDIT)                                                 6,271,729.38                 6,737,092.33              6,401,198.43              8,811,51.85
NEW (DISODUNT)                                                 548,703,432.37             1,329,293,510.63            474,102,996.19            214,737,688.80              9,450,000.00
NEW (AVG. DISCOUNT)                                              5,432,707.25                 6,042,243.23              6,001,303.74              7,669,203.17
1111ER OF LOWS                                                            101                          220                        79                        28
AVG. DISJRSED PER LOU                  1,057,410.00              3,749,897.60                 3,752,756.89              3,492,518.56              6,123,049.38             14,763,843.00
NEW JOBS CREATED                                  1                       2058                        4062                      1360                       402                         3
INVESTINEZ  PER ENPLOMR                2,785,000.00              1,306,234.70                   1757347.96              1,773,973.32              2,767,839.36              2,315,400.00
VALUE ADDED                            2,560,000.00          3,980,203,810.00            10,959,244,896.00          3,457,948,996.00          2,159,040,929.00              9,512,000.00



TAE: 2
THIRD SSE: LOAN DISBTRSENTS BY TENOR
(Sucres)
1985                           1986                                   1987
LOM TEICRl                    MOiT                           MONT                                ANDIT
D N -S             NO.      DISRED               NO.       DISB8SD                  NO.        DISB0E
18                                               2          850,736.25               6        5,767,740.00
24                                               3        1,644,600.00              20       16,122,448.89
30                                               3        4,800,000.00              28       59,300,010.00
36                                               8       10,005,929.00              67      147,606,759.40
42                                               4       11,574,353.93               8       17,925,300.00
48                                              55       76,851,077.75             112      205,013,527.86
54                1      720,000.00             26       40,036,587.80              19       26,892,975.37
60                1   1,394,820.00              74      201,710,415.30             374      931,416,782.47
66                                               7       23,672,150.45               9       21,502,758.60
72                                              40      163,520,252.63              98      338,917,728.16
78                                              20       56,444,381.07              26       90,773,321.72
84                                              51      263,746,151.40             176    1,029,430,437.17
90                                              12       49,678,311.06               1        2,695,500.00
96                                              23      183,508,784.10              30      223,664,759.55
102                                               1        9,018,360.00               1       13,500,000.00
108                                               6       26,381,073.14               4       42,748,650.00
114                                               4       24,537,195.00               9       51,896,517.58
120                                              28      228,232,062.60              84      797,780,170.58
TOTAL        2   2,114,820.00             367    1,376,212,421.48            1072    4,022,955,387.35



TALE: 2
1IIRD SSE: LO   DISBUSEWS BY TENOR(COMNUED)
(Sucres)
1988                                    1989                                     1990
LOAN TENOR                 MONCT                                   A1MT                                     AouIl
IN IONS   NO.            DISBRSED                    NO.         DISBSED                     NO.          DISBED
18
24          17        12,603,529.80                   2         3,870,000.00
30          11         26,913,030.00
36          37         53,421,570.00                  9        32,220,135.00
42           4         10,214,235.00                  1         2,250,000.00
48          48         55,437,300.28                 14        50,978,170.80
54           6          6,187,529.70                  2        27,000,000.00
60         126        281,375,584.88                 39       165,221,952.30
66           5         11,145,915.00
72          45        204,627,287.98                 10        69,838,177.50
78           5         21,867,878.50                  1        10,800,000.00
84          51        285,249,723.63                 18       168,162,380.47                   1  14,763,843.00
90           2        13,590,000.00                   1         9,000,000.00
96          13        128,438,853.30                  5        68,720,670.00
102                        900,000.00
108           1          7,470,000.00                              835,650.00
114           3         27,690,930.00
120          21        232,411,466.37                  2        27,900,000.00
395     1,379,544,834.44                104        636,797,136.07                  1  14,763,843.00



THIRD SSE: LOAN DISBURSEKEMS BY PROWINCE
(Sucr_ )
1 9 8 5                                             1 9 8 6                                               1 9 8 7
AJN8R                                               ANDUN                                                ANDIOT
PROVINCE              NO.           DISSBURED                              NO.           DI9ZDS             S                   NO.          DIS31ED             t
1UW8t3ABU                  2          2,114,820.00   100.00%
CARCIII                                                                         2          6,670,800.00       0.48t                  7          9,114,037.87      0.22%
DBA3RA                                                                         19         33,578,785.88       2.43%                 32       103,588,506.40       2.57%
PICnhLCSA                                                                      85        341,031,918.15    24.78%                 201         911,142,089.90    22.64%
OTOPAXI                                                                         2          2,029,680.00       0.14%                 31         89,441,284.50      2.22%
1VDRIADC                                                                       27        102,905,838.00       7.47%                 57        210,569,562.00       5.23%
BOLIVAR                                                                         1            345.168,00       0.02%                 15         29,365,089.30      0.72%
CSI0NRAZO                                                                       4         12,939,450.00       0.94%                 24         83,130,273.14       2.06%
C7AR                                                                           10         29,971,957.50       2.17%                 11         27,975,600.00      0.69t
AZlAY                                                                          21         73,835,190.00       5.36%                 90        300,881,283.78       7.47%
LOJA                                                                           21         31,021,697.20       2.25%                 48        104,776,533.66       2.60%
ZSmRALOAS                                                                       5         22,380,390.00       1.62%                 24         97,388,639.65      2.42%
MRIBI                                                                          12         35,239,107.00       2.56%                 91        249,142,975.34       6.19%
LOS RIOS                                                                       43        160,344,84.551    11.65%                   60        271,374,385.22       6.74%
G,YAS                                                                          86        407.850,783.47    29.63%                  267     1,261,691,145.97    31.36%
EL ORO                                                                          9         35,369,167.50       2.57%                 57        102,253,771.20       2.54%
MPO                                                                             3         23,243,420.88       1.68%                  7         23,532,986.43       0.58%
PASTAZA                                                                         5          4,609,599.99       0.334                 11         30,214,712.74       0.75%
1R01WA SARTIACO                                                                 6         36,144,000.00       2.62%                 24         62,505,896.20       1.55%
ZAJ0RA CE"CIPE                                                                  5         11,300,622.40       0.82%                 11         35,984,794.05       0.89%
GALAPAGOS                                                                       1          5,400,000.00       0.39%                  4         18,881,820.00       0.46%
TOTAL GENERAL              2          2,114,820.00   100.00%                  367      1,376,212,421.48    99.91%                 1072     4,022,955,387.35    99.90%
SIERA                      2          2,114,820.00   100.00%                  192        634,330,484.73    46.09%                  516      1,869,984,260.55    46.48%
COSTA                                                                         155        661,184,293.48    48.04%                  499      1,981,850,917.38    49.26%
CRIEME                                                                         19         75,297,643.27       5.47%                 53        '52,238,389.42       3.78t
GALAPAGOS                                                                       1          5,400,000.00       0.39%                  4         18,881,820.00       0.46%
TOTAL                      2          2,114,820.00   100.00%                  367      1,376,212,421.48    99.99t                 1072      4,022,955,387.35    99.98%
oITO-CUAY. (.UEA           2          2,114,820.00   100.00%                  139        661,687,959.55    48.08%                  342      1,746,114,247.50    43.40%
RESSO DEL PAIS                                                                228        714,524,461.93    51.91%                  730      2,276,841,139.85    56.59%



THIRD SSE: LOAN DISRORSENENrS BY PROVINCE(CONTLINED)
(Sires)
19 8                                                     1 9 8 9                                         1 9 9 0
ADUNT                                                    AROUNS                                          AMOUNS
NEOVINCE             NO.         DISBURSED                                    NO.         DISBURSED         9                  NO.         DIS8URSED
STUlCVRAHUA
CARCBY                   3         2,492,102.25     0.18%
LEBUVRA                 20        73.952,791.25     5.36%                         2        20,082,600.00     3.15%
PICHItCHA               72       281,606,715.92    20.41%                        24       194,313,240.00    30.51%
COTOPAXI                24        74,921,274.00     5.43%
TUNVRAIIV               31        89,974,170.00     6.52%                         2        23,720,670.00     3.72%
NOLIVRR                  3         2,126,835.00     0.15%
CHIX8RAZO                7        17,574,480.00     1.27%                         3        10,009,629.00      1.57%
CANAR                    4        12,515,492.70     0.90%                         3          8,559,000.00     1.34%
AZUAY                   23        45,987,660.00     3.33%                        12        40,522,500.00     6.36%
LOJA                    23        28,102,184.55     2.03%                         2        11,700,000.00      1.83%
EStALDAS                29        69,078,632.00     5.00%                         5        29,053,800.00     4.56%
1ANABI                  41        85,430,666.35     6.19%                        26       138,328,114.50    21.72%                 1         5,313,843.00    35.99%
LOS RIOS                19        84,903,615.70     6.15%                         1          3,130,882.57     0.49%                          9,450,000.00    64.00%
CUAYAS                  62       414,938,851.33    30.07%                        10       100,606,500.00    15.79%
EL OR                  27        87,771,428.96     6.36%                        14        56,770,200.00     8.91%
NAPO                               1,398,004.20     0.10%
PASTASA
IDRONA SANTIArO          4         3,100,500.00     0.22%
ZAJ9RA CEINCIPE          3         3,669,430.05     0.26%
CALAPACOS                                  0.18
TOTAL GENERAL          395     1,379,544,834.44    99.93%                       104       636,797,136.07    99.95%                 1        14,763,843.00    99.99%
SIERRA                 210       629,253,705.67    45.61%                        48        308,907,639.00    48.50%
COSTA                  178       742,123,194.34    53.79%                        56        327,889,497.07    51.49%                1        14,763,843.00   100.00%
06IEUTE                  7         8,167,934.15     0.59%                                                                                                                                         0%
GALAPAGOS                                  0.18
TOTAL                  395     1,379,544,834.34    99.99%                       104       636,797,136.07    99.99%                 1        14,763,843.00   100.00%
QUITO-GUAY.(mBNO        98       599,590,369.33    43.46%                        25        220,413,240.00    34.61%                1         9,450,000.00    64.00%
RESTO DEL PAIS         297       779,954,465.11    56.53%                        79        416,383,896.07    65.384                          5,313,843.00    35.99%



TAL-i
THIRD 58E: LOAN DISBVRSEXENTS BY SECTOR
19 8 5                                            1 9 8 6                                            1 9 8 7
AMUNT                                             ANCUNT                                            AMDUNT
SECTOR                                NO.          DISBRSED           4                  NO.         DISBURSED          %                  NO.         DISBURSED
FISHINC                                                                                         9         40,246,020.00      2.92%              175        468,385,358.12    11.64%
MINERAL EXTRACTICN                                                                                                                                1          4,500,000.00      0.11%
FOC  PRODCTS                                                                                   62        238,473,838.40    17.32%               130        605,309,006.06    15.04%
XIC. FOOD PRODCTS                                                                               7         19,889,663.40      1.44%               37        193,854,727.13      4.81%
BEVEPAGES                                                                                                                                         5         39,780,000.00      0.98%
EVXERCES                                                                                       33        116,169,637.28      8.44%               52        238,479,240.72      5.92%
CLOTINC                                                                                        34         67,222,535.15      4.88%              120        286,322,246.31      7.16%
LEATHER AND PRODVCTS                                                                            9         49,593,672.00      3.60%                9         33,994,080.00      0.84%
FOOIAR                                        2          2,114,820.00   100.00%                 5         13,978,710.00      1.01%               20         47,566,350.00      1.18%
OOW AN  PRODWCTS                                                                                9         22,843,053.69      1.65%               43        135,835,316.10      3.374
FURITUNRE AND ACCESSCRIES                                                                      33         61,120,395.82      4.44%               82        141,894,055.14      3.52%
PAPER AND PRCDRCTS                                                                              3         26,556,480.00      1.92%                8         50,562,000.00      1.25%
PUBLISBlI                                                                                       3         15,903,584.00      1.15%               15         79,608,172.50      1.97%
CMKKICAL PRODCTS                                                                                7         52,346,772.00      3.80%               15        111,039,153.75      2.76%
OTHER PRODUCTS                                                                                  5         24,962,753.93      1.81%               16         95,001,300.00      2.36%
FAB.PRODVC.DrVZRSOS DERIVADOS                                                                                                                     1         16,000,000.00      0.44%
FABRICACION DE PROWCTOS DE CA                                                                   6         28,520,747.95      2.07%                5         21,331,800.00      0.53%
PLASTIC PRODUCTS                                                                               20        119,861,327.10      8.70%               36        217,156,995.00      5.39%
FABRICACION DE OBJETOS DE BAER                                                                  2         11,700,000.00      0.85%                9         34,524,000.00      0.85%
GLASS AND PRODUCTS                                                                              2          3,258,000.00      0.23%                7          34,231,100.00     0.85%
OT1ER IXNERAIL PRODUCTS                                                                        18         55,488,915.00      4.03%               59         163,003,312.35     4.05%
8RQ9 AlD STEEL                                                                                                                                    4         23,654,700.00      0.58%
MEEILIC PROWDCTS                                                                               47        144,750,859.16    10.51%               111         362,834,537.71     9.01%
COYT. OF MACDINRY                                                                              14         68.644,677.28      4.98%               17          64,700,100.00     1.60%
CONST.RAQ.-APARATOB ACCESORIO                                                                   3         23,400,000.00      1.70%               10          66,330,000.00     1.64%
TRANSPST EQuIPlIEWIT                                                                                                                              5          12,973,680.00     0.32%
SCIEIISIFC INSTRVIINTS                                                                                                                            2         16,943,580.00      0.42%
OTHER NTIFICnTDRmEN                                                                             7         18,703,890.00      1.35%               10          33,761,610.00     0.83%
RESTARPANTS                                                                                    17         72,617,497.58      5.27%               33         199,738,472.81     4.96%
RDTEST                                                                                         10         68,599,141.74      4.98%               20         165,525,635.97     4.11%
REDICAL SICES                                                                                   1          1,350,000.00      0.09%                3          15,465,937.50     0.38%
OSB R     SERVICES                                                                                                                                2          20,988,900.00     0.52%
COItIA                                                                                          1         10,010,250.00      0.72%                1           9,000,000.00     0.22%
UAIUIUT                                                                                                                                           1           4,086,790.73     0.10%
IISC. RPAIE                                                                                                                                        6          3,463,191.45     0.08%
mkSaINm   AND LAUNVDRY
MISC. PERSONAL SERVICES                                                                                                                           2           1,110,038.00     0.02
TOTAL                                        2          2,114,820.00   100.00%               367      1,376,212,421.48    99.86%              1072       4,022,955,387.35    99.81%



THIRD SSE: LOAN DISBURSDERMTS BY SECTCS(CONTINUED))
(Sucres)
1 9 8 8                                             1 9 8 9                                             1 9 9 0
ANOUNT                                              AXRNT                                               AODUNT
SECTOR                                  NO.          DISBURSED           %                  NO.          DISBStSED           9                  NO.          DISBDRSED           9
FISHING                                        91        280,953.196.85    20.36%                  40        184,667,314.50    28.99%                   1          5,313,843.00    35.99%
ANERAL EXCRACTION                               1         18,900,000.00       1.37%
FOOD POWWCTS                                   42        223,465,050.49    16.19%                   5         17,100,891.00      2.68%
HiSc. FO0  PRODWCTS                             8         26,484,990.07       1.91%                 2           9,256,500.00      1.45%
BEVERAGES                                       2         14,791,500.00       1.07%
TEXTILES                                       21         68,660,044.43       4.97%                 7          56,082,600.00      8.80%
CLOTHING                                       57         89a423,042.18      6.48%                 12         67,619,800.00    10.61%
LEATHER AND PRODUCTS                            5         28,435,460.00       2.06%
FOOTNEAR                                        6         22,194,450.00      1.60%
WOOD AMt PRODUCTS                              11         27,468,191.25       1.99%                               835,650.00      0.13%
FUWNITURE AND ACCESSORIES                      28         76,360,828.06      5.53%                 11        112,438,260.00    17.65%
PAPER AND PRODUCTS                              4         55,224,000.00      4.00%
PUBLISEIIC                                      5         24,030,000.00      1.74%
CHEMICAL PROWCTS                                4         12,780,000.00      0.92%                  1         15,750,000.00       2.47%
OTHER PRODUCTS                                                                                      4         26,100,000.00      4.09%                              9,450,000.00    64.00%
FAR. PltCX .DmVRSoS DERIVADOS
FABRICACION DE PROWCTOS DE CA                   5         25,344,711.00      1.83%                  1          4,950,000.00      0.77%
PLASTIC PRiODECTS                               4         34,362,562.33      2.49%
FABRICACION DE OBJETOS DE BAM                   2         11,700,000.0o       0.84%                 1          2,700,000.00       0.42%
GLASS AND PRODUCTS                              1         16,200,000.00       1.17%                 1           2,381,238.00      0.37%
OTHER NISRL PDaUCETS                           12         50,591,429.55      3.66%                  4         19,948,500.00       3.13%
IRON Akt STEEL
SETALLIC PRODWCTS                              37        119,841,669.00       8.68%                11          82,809,000.00    13.00%
CONST. OF SGCEnIRY                              2         14,248,800.00       1.03%
COWST.flQ.-APARATOS ACCESORIO                   1          2,700,000.00       0.19%
TRANSPORT EQUIPMENT
SCIETWIFIC ISRUKENTS                            3          9,939,643.20      0.72%                  1          18,900,000.00      2.96%
OTEER  ENFACTDRnOG                              5          6,031,800.00       0.43%         *       2           4,950,000.00      0.77%
RESTATRATS                                     13         53,413,498.95       3.87%                 1           9,000,000.00      1.41%
HOTZLS                                          1         17,222,704.20       1.24%
NEDICJ.L SERVICER                               1           1,187,081.10      0.08%
OTHER ERVICES
CISEIS                                          1         18,900,000.00       1.37%
EUTERTRXNIST                                                                                                    1,308,382.57      0.20%
XISC. REPAIRS                                  13         15,518,216.03       1.12%
HALING AND LAUOY                                2         11,098,980.00       0.80%
MISC. PB(AtAL SERVICES                          7           2,072,985.75      0.15%
TOTAL                                        395      1,379,544,834.44    99.86%                 104        636,797,136.07    99.90%                   1         14,763,843.00    99.99%
-- _-    _   __       _ _      __-    _   __       __       _ _     __-    _   __-    __       __       __    __--    ----- -  -----   --  - -- -   -  -  -  -  _-  -_



TABLE: 5
TIURD SSE: LOAN DISB RSE(OIS BY SIZE
(Sucres)
1 9 8 5                                           1 9 8 6                                          1 9 8 7
AJWlT                                             momUN                                           AiMURT
IDM  SIZE                                       NO.         DISHRS)             %                 NO.          DISBSED          I                  NO.         DISBRSI D
FICK                 0.01 TO      10,000,000.01                  2          2,114,820.00   100.00%               328      909,942,152.31    66.11%               963       2,568,376,847.66    63.84%
AtCK        10,000,000.01 TO      20,000,000.01                                                                   39      466,270,269.17    33.88%               103       1,341,898,539.69    33.35%
FRCE        20,000,000.01 To      30,000,000.00                                                                                                                    6         112,680,000.00     2.80%
TOTAL:                           2          2,114,820.00   100.00%               367    1,376,212,421.48    99.99%               1072      4,022,955,387.35    99.99%
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _         -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -         - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _         -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -         - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    _ _



TABE: 5
NID SSI: 11 msES T SHEmTuD)
(SIjcres)
1988                                               1989                                                1990
ID 517sE                                          N0.          DISEMOD                               NO.          DISOUE                                 R .          DISUD 
R11                   0.01 TO      10,000,000.01                 363        892,843,347.9i    64.72%                 89         414,656,976.07    65.11%                   1          5,313,843.00    35.99%
11(          10,000,000.01 0      20,000,000.01                  23        316,601,486.53    22.94%                  10        137,759,490.00    21.63%
am           20,000,000.01 TO      30,000,000.00                   9        170,100,000.00    12.33%                   5         84,380,670.00    13.25%                              9,450,000.00    64.00%
TOTAL:                          395     1,379,544,834.44    99.99%                 104         636,797,136.07    99.99%                   1        14,763,843.00    99.99%



TAM E: 6
ThRD SSE: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS BY PARTICIPATINC FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARY
(Sucrw)
1                           9 8                     19 6                                                1 9 8 7
_    _-_  -   _  -    -    -_-_-_   _-_   _-_   _-   --   -   -- -   -  -   - _ -   --   -   -- -- _ -_-_ --_    - -- -_   --_ - _ _ _ _ _  - _ _ _ - _ - -_
UINTEfMEIARY                                               AONT                                                AMIUNT                                              AMOT
NO.         DISBURSED           %                  NO.          DISBUUSED           %                  NO.          DISBURSED
-_   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ___ -- - - - - - __ - -_ - - - - - - - - - - - -- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - -- - - - - - - - - ._ - - - -
WONDE-ISADW
BANCO DE FtCKNTo                                 2          2,114,820.00   100.00%                198         420,010,564.93    30.51%                689      1,590,854,251.35    39.54%
BANCO DEL PROrRESO                                                                                 10          66,392,437.67      4.82%                11        116,370.000.00      2.89%
6CCO  ELAKAaZ  i                                                                                    1           5,906,250.00      0.42%
BALICO DE LOS ANDES                                                                                                                                     3         28,350,000.00      0.70%
BANCO DEL AUSTHO                                                                                    6          26,424,000.00      1.92%                10         38,880,DDD.00      0.96%
881CO DEL AZUaY                                                                                     2          18,000,000.00      1.30%                18        120,719,700.00      3.00%
BANCO  OLIVARrANO                                                                                   1           1,W800,000.00     0.13%                  2        10,188,000.00      0.25%
BICO CWHrTIDNTAL                                                                                                                                       21        123,678,.00.00      3.07%
FILAEBBCW                                                                                           4          36,540,000.00      2.65%                26        253,346,000.00      6.29%
BANCO DE GURYAUs                                                                                   20          93.060,000.00      6.76%                 15        80,280,000.00      1.99%
861Co DiD. Y CcWRCIAL                                                                              10          56,640,000.00      4.11%                  4        36,000,000.00      0.89%
BANCO INICIOINL                                                                                     1           7,200,000.00      0.52%                  2        23,400,000.00      0.58%
CCO DE LWJA
881CCO 0D  KACaA                                                                                    1           9,000,000.00      0.65%                  1        14,400,000.00      0.35%
BANCO DEL PACIFIC                                                                                  33         190,261,764.00    13.82%                 61        372,078,000.00      9.24%
BDICO DEL PICHINCHA                                                                                10          33,436,800.00      2.42%                61        338,802,300.00      8.42%
DICO POPULAR                                                                                        2          11,890,800.00      0.86%                14         76,590,0OO.00      1.90%
1CCO DE PRZBTlAWO                                                                                   6          38,486,088.00      2.79%                15        122,898,186.00      3.05%
313CO LA PEVIsoRA                                                                                 13          51,741,900.00      3.75%                64        296,069,850.00      7.35%
88CO  DMS. TU aDR8U   S.A.                                                                         2          10,890,000.00      0.79%                  1        12,487.500.00      0.31%
BAtCO DE LA WCEWCCIQN                                                                              6          49,860D000.00      3.62%                14        103,207,500.00      2.56%
arCO CAJA. DE CREDO ACRIS O                                                                         4          10,808,116.88      0.78%                  5        36,900,000.00      0.91%
BNCO DE COOPERATIVAS                                                                                8          37,170,000.00      2.70%                 6         21,276,000.00      0.52%
atO COMW OLIDADO D L EUoOR                                                                          2          21,816,000.00      1.56%                  1         5,400,000.00      0.13%
or07C                                                                                               1           7,200.000.00      0.52%                  3        26,460,000.00      0.65%
FISIAA                                                                                              1          14,394,600.00      1.04%                                                                        4
zWurFUsA                                                                                                                                                 3        29,880,000.00      0.74%
flS8ICWIEA DE GUAYAQUIL                                                                             2           9,000,000.00      0.65%                  2        14,670,000.00      0.36%
FLNANCIERA  DEL AUSSRO S.A.                                                                         3           4,230,000.00      0.30%                  4        10,620,000.00      0.26%
FnatIxa zInOAxaxICA                                                                                15         117,503,100.00      8.53%                  3        18,898,200.00      0.46%
FIIAMClIERI AlnuA S.A.                                                                              2          13,050,000.00      0.94%                  4        16,470,000.00      0.40%
AE mn                                                                                                                                                    2        23,616,000.00      0.58%
FINAIEW                                                                                              3         13,500,000.00      0.98%                  4        13,050,000.00      0.32%
rIACIER   DE LA REPUBLICA                                                                                                                                2        28,215,900.00      0.70%
71I5C                                                                                                                                                    1        18,900,000.00      0.46%
- - - -           - --2 2_1148200    100-- 3 6-                   1,376,212,4218    9                          2     43                    9 9. 8 -- - -- -  - _  - -- - - - - -   -% - _  - --  - -- - --   - - -
TOTAL:                      2           2,114,B20.00   100.DD%                367       1,376,212,421.48    99.86%               1072      4,022,955,387.35    99.63%
_  _  _    _-_    _  _  _  _  _  _    _-_    _ _  _  _-_  - _-_-_ -- _   - _   --_-_-_   - -   -   --   - _ - - _-   _--   _--   _ _     -     _ _ _ _ _ -  
_    _  _ - _    _ - _    _ - _    _ - _  _ _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _    _-_   _ _ - _  _ _  _ - _  _ - _  _  _  _  - --_-_--_  -    -- -_--_-_--    -    -- -_  --_ -    --    -  -  -_-_  _    _



THIRD S8E: LOA  D Z N1UTMS BY PARTICIPATINC fINANCIAL INTOMIARY(DCONTDIVED)
(Sucve.)
1 9 8a8                                         1 9 8 9                                          1 9 9 0
IlQlI6ARY                                               AMtWMlT                                         AMOM                                             6 A1
ID.        CDISBURSED         %                 BD.         DISSURSED          %                 NO.         DI0S8N0 D
CD8DSsADO                                                                                                                                       1          5,313,843.00    35.99%
BANCO CD FW(U1                              260       566,937,935.11    41.09%               48        240,435,966.07    37.75%
861CO  EEL PROCEGSo                           2        13,167,562.33     0.95%
BI1CO AII6ZWIAS                               1        18,900.000.00     1.37%
BANCO MD LOS AMES                             3        21,210,903.00     1.53%
BANtCO IBL A3S                                1           900,000.00     0.06%
A6CCO DEL AZUAY                               9        *6,620.000.00     3.37%
861CO IOLIVARIANO
BANCO COM8I?EAL                               *        76,927,500.00     5.57%                5          25,380,000.00     3.98%
FILASBlCo                                     7        68,544,000.00     4.96%
BA6CO DE CUAYAQUIL                            3        10,800,000.00     0.78%
lCCO IND. Y CCNUCIAL                          1         9,900,000.00     0.71%
361CCO DINUACIONAL                            1        14,400,000.00     1.041
31CCO DS LOJA                                 2         1,890,000.00     0.13%
BANCO ED 8A6CA31                                                                              1          9,450,000.00      1.48%                           9,450,000.00    64.00%
BA3CCO DL PACI6ICO                           27       126,549,180.00     9.17%               14          82,571,670.00    12.96%
BANCO ML PICHIIICA                           27       110,405,700.00     8.00t               14         132,300,000.00    20.77%
36CO POPULAR                                  3        19,800,000.00     1.43%
BANCO DE PUESTANOS                            5        32,400,090.00     2.34%
3AJCO LA PREVISORA                           20        93,851,964.00     6.80%               16          66,699,500.00    13.64%
36C  DSL ITOPCDlUAD    S.A.
363CCO C LA PRODUCCION                        2        12,600,000.00     0.91%                2          22,500,000.00     3.53%
BIIO CCJA DE CREDITO A RICO                   1         7,020,000.00     0.50%
81CCO UD COOPERATIVAS
B6CO CONDYSCIDADO DEL ECUADOR                                                                  3         32,760,000.00     5.14%
COPIEC
F11IISA                                       2        10,800,000.00     0.78%
RCWINSA                                       1        18,900,000.00     1.37%
FIWCInEA DE CDAYAQUIL                         1         3,600,000.00     0.26%
PIMANCIERA DEL AkUTRO S.A.                    2         3,420.000.00     0.24%                 1          4,500,000.00     0.70%
FIW.1CIZ3A IBZROAIIEICAN
rFlWCnIA ANIFA S.A.
FIIDJUCD                                      5        75,600,000.00     5.48%
rIInUCA DE LA REPULICA
71l6c                                         1        14,400,000.00     1.04%
TOTAL:                    395     1,379,544,834.44    99.88%              104        636,797,136.07    99.95%                 1         14,763,843.00    99.99%



TA WALl
THIRD SSE: LOANs IN ARREARS AND PR CENT OF TOTAL LOIdU FOR FOPINAR LOAIES AM TOTAL LOAN D RTFD 10
1 9 8 8                                                     1 9 8 9
FOPINAR     t IN      TOTAL           % IN                 FOPINAR       * IN     TON L           * IN
FINaNCIAL IIsTITC NS                    LOaNS   ARREER       LOLI          AREKAR                   LOAM      AREUN      LON S         ANREx
DONESTIC sAT
MAzONas                                 50,019.50     17.4    13.722# 70.8       8.2                40,933.30     18.2  13,75 ,482 40       9.4
ARS                                     54,367.70      0.0     5,834.144.30       8.8               69,880.40     32.5  11.300,608 50       8.0
AD8TRD                                  94,185.20      3.5     9,084,747.00      7.6                61,259.10      4.2  13,894.252 10       7.1
AZD&T                                  310,171.30      0.1     9,995,948.10     13.9               255,944.20      2.0   8,659,632.80      17.8
a LIVA8ANO                              20,861.00      0.0     9.138,767.30      6.0                18,452.00      0.0  11,443,858.50       6.3
LITORAL.
cJwA DE CREDITO ArPICOLA                72,010.00     12.7     3,893,229.00     15.2                64,043.40     21.4   5,088,957.70      14.7
OOPzRATIVAs                            100,466.10     18.0     2,227,631.90     67.5                82,002.00     26.0   2,051,259.50      74.2
C IRCAL DE KANNABI                           0.00      0.0       751,482.50      6.2                     0.00      0.0   1,674,011.10       0.8
COlWmIDADo MM ZVDR                      69,490.00      0.0 3D o  6,852. 00        5.1              193,295.70      0.0   6,106,001.90       4.4
ONTINWTEX.                             429,318.20      0.0    20.060,440. 60      4.9              488,978.20      0.5  28,829,467.30       3.6
CRZDITO Z NIPOTZCMRO                       562.50    100.0     4,858,813.00      9.5                     0.00      0.0   8,490,311.20       4.8
FILMDAM                                592,165.40      1.0    32,323,838.60     18.5               474,293.20      3.4  43,165,205.30       5.3
WATAQUIL                               373,666.90      2.8    16,768,569.70     18.1               430,496.50      3.0  23,103,003.80      10.4
nuWSTUIAL Y caCIAL                    171,028.10      13.4     6,554,880.60     15.3                     0.00      0.0   6,554,880.60      15.3
nLTACIOulL                              55,233.00      0.0    10,U87,802.10      2.8                65,366.40      0.0  12,544,942.40       9.6
L4WA                                    33,305.80      0.0     3,209,600.80      17.0               53,914.00      1.2   4,408.061.20      11.3
MALA                                    48,517.00      7.9     7.581,230.00       7.9               52,120.10      5.6  30,800 422.80       9.6
PACIFIco                             1,172,535.10      1.5    51,697,533.70      8.3             1,504,935.10      1.2  66,394 629.70       3.7
FICKID,CA                              871,698.80      0.1    35,253.046.50       6.2            1,273,211.50      0.3  52,861,331.30       5.9
POPULCA                                184,146.80     10.5    24,074,088.00      11.6              156,054.10     10.3  52,625,044.20       5.6
PRZb3TAN0S                             302,725.90      0.4    11,199,790.90      5.2               464,560.30      0.6  18 279,067.40       4.0
PREvISCNA                              835,305.80      2.7    27,106,620.70     10.3             1,065,876.60      2.9  35,953,630.80      10.5
PROWUCCION                             283,726.90      0.6    11.824,369.30      9.4               361,879.60      1.6  16,365,351.40       9.7
PROGNEO                                235,164.30      0.7    19,.40,924.80       7.7              202,983.20      1.2  24,991,615.90       2.1
SOCIZDAD GERUAL                              0.00      0.0     5,582,343.80      0.6                10,000.00      0.0   8,907,452.60       0.4
RNIURWI                                      0.00      0.0        17,415.00       0.0                    0.00      0.0   1,253,958.90       0.3
TOURIAL                                      u.wi      0.0     4,069,607.90     10.7                     0.00      0.0   4,820,449.60      10.1
TI 3ANO                                 54,553.20      0.9     2,813, 274.30     16.7               45,045.00      0.1   1,830,343.20      12.1
subtotal                           6,415,224.50      2.3   354,238,263.10     10.1             7,435,483.90      2.5 496,196,234.10       6.7
roREIGN  S8
ANUICA                                   3,863.80      0.0     3,790,045.40      13.7                    0.00     0.00   3,269,456.80       4.7
CITIBANK                                     0.00      0.0    17,624,703.20      17.2                    0.00     0.00  18,005,353.00       8.3
ID.ASES                                      0.00      0.0     8.264,182.60       0.2                    0.00     0.00  12,475,955.10       0.3
L401R0S                                      0.00      0.0     7,199,875.20      13.8                    0.00     0.00   8,758.391.80       7.0
9bt0ot81                               3,863.80      0.0    36,678,806.40     12.4                     0.00      0.0  42,509,156.70       5.4
T 0 T A L                          6,419,088.30      2.3   391,117,069.50     10.3             7,435,483.90      2.3 538,705,390.80       6.6
COFIEC                                  65,742.00      1.5    11,363,044.00      15.0               83,054.00      0.0  11,564,493.00       9.7
BUFnisA                                143,490.00      1.0     6,834,158.00       7.8              115,825.00      1.2   9,992,285.00       7.7
FnSMA                                   ss66,015.00    0.5    11,579,095.00      10.6               66,015.00      0.5  11,579,095.00      10.6
rItW.1YUIL                              88,292.00     30.2    12,604,358.00       7.0               63,565.00      0.7  12,265,733.00       6.7
FInD0A                                  58,971.00      1.6        851,923.00      6.2               88,678.00       0.0   1,267,201.00      2.2
FINIER                                 295,280.00      3.2     5,615.585.00      28.7              295,260.00      3.2   5,615,585.00      26.7
FIUNSDES                                64,996.00      0.0     1,985,433.00      54.8               64,996.00      0.0   1,985,433.00      54.8
ANERAFrN                                15,337.00      0.0      2,027.771.00      8.4               14,400.00       0.0   2,277,662.00      5.7
FINNEOR                                157,409.00      2.1     8,236,372.00       9.5              185,433.00      1.9   9,449,485.00       9.8
FIrAA                                   21,204.00     37.8     2,943.430.00      41.2               21,204.00      37.8   2,943,430.00     41.2
FINEC                                   38,000.00      0.0     1,745,653.00       0.0               41,436.00      0.0   3,113,363.00       0.0
FIPESA                                  36,951.00      0.0     3,835,805.00       9.4               32,119.00       6.0   3,522,569.00     11.3
FILASA                                   5,000.00      0.0        330,735.00      2.0                4,167.00      0,0      918,856.00      0.7
YINANDECO                                                                                           26,397.00      0.0      548,382.00      0.0
T 0 T A L                          1,056,687.00      3.2    69,953,312.00      13.8            1,102,549.00       1.1  77,043,572.00      7.6
TOTAL GENERAL S.F.P.                 7,475.775.30      2.4   461,070,381.50      10.8            8,538,032.90       2.4 615,748,962.80      6.7
ANCO NAC. DE FOIIENTO (1)                                     95,896,727.60      10.3                                   124,150,519.50      9.7



ZAMLL wZ
THIRD SSE: LOANS IN ARREARS AND PERCENT OF TOTAL LOANS FCR FOPINAR LOANS AND TOTAL LOAN PORTFOLIO(CONTINUED)
(suorms and 9)
1 9 90                                                            1 9 9 1
FOPINAR     t IN      TOTAL            * IN                      FOPINAR      t IN       TOTAL              t IN
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS                   LOANS    ARREAR      LOANS          ARREAR                        LOANS    AREAR        LOANM            AREAR
DOMESTIC BANKS
ANACONAS                                 38,198.60      0.0    18,597,493.90       4.7                     23,337.50       1.3      34,593,013.80        4.4
AN:S                                    101,813.20      1.3    21,670,805.30       5.3                    219,605.00       0.9      30,847,824.60        6.3
AUSTRO                                   37,182.70    12.5    20,240,751.60        5.2                     35,435.00       8.9      26,355,852.10        4.5
AZ1EY                                   175,445.00      2.8    12 126.995.60    10.1                      146,930.70       2.7      14.101,180.80       11.8
SOLIVARIANO                              73,492.00      0.0    16,808,267.50       3.5                    108,240.00       0.0      19,541,328.10        3.2
LITORAX.                                      0.00      0.0        207,668.60      5.3                          0.00       0.0         655,241.00        1.2
CaJ)  DE CREDITO AGRICOLA                49,405.30    25.1       5,813,400.00    18.4                      43,469.10      30.4       7,753,085.40       12.1
COOpERATIVAS                             69.658.90    35.9       1,496,461.80    74.9                      96,296.00      42.0       1,365,012.00      73.0
CONIERIA.L DE MANABI                          0.00      0.0      2,245,621.20      0.6                          0.00       0.0       3,508,756.10        1.3
CONBOLDADO DEL ECMkDOR                  287,487.10      0.3      9,353,693.60      6.5                    447,966.20       0.0      11,046,475.90        9.3
CoNTIeNiTAL                            526,841.20      1.4    46,095,940.30       3.2                    879,658.70       1.5      64,273,510.10        3.7
CREDITO E BIPOTECARIO                         0.00      0.0    14,722,853.50       4.3                          0.00       0.0      17,519,346.60        6.9
FILANBANCO                              609,272.70      3.0    74,104,350.60       4.3                  1,232,294.70       1.6     107,467,545.50        5.1
CDAYAQUIL                               824,547.80      1.5    54,892,066.50       9.3                  1,009,223.60       2.4      58,406,911.90        8.2
INDUSTRIAL Y CCtERCIAL
INERNACIONRL                             85,499.90      0.0    16,167,896.70    11.2                       68,166.50       0.0      17,912,218.40        9.2
LOJA                                    214,795.00      1.0      6,294,132.10      9.9                    334,112.40       1.1       7,895,091.10       10.4
NACHALA                                 103,236.60      1.0    16,072,753.20    10.4                       97,742.00       0.6      21,216,172.60        9.6
PACIFICO                              1,808,152.50      1.2    98.587,644.30      3.6                   2,277,559.70       1.6     135,909,154.40        2.9
PICHINCBA                             1,366,201.60      1.2    80,105,507.40       6.9                  1,558,381.80       1.8     115,045,149.50        5.3
POPULAR                                 113,901.20    12.7    57,227,886.90        7.2                     92,659.20       7.4      75,268,550.20        4.4
PRESTANDS                               567,726.50      2.1    24,119.869.20      9.3                     589,914.60       3.4      25,042,644.50        4.4
PREVISCRA                             3,054,662.20      2.6    48,201.709.60    10.8                    1,730,676.10       4.0      57,659,155.70       10.7
PRODtCCOION                             335,846.10      3.8    19,713.983.90       8.5                    257,948.70       2.5      30,144,817.20        5.3
PROCRE0                                184,433.50      1.8    32,829,568.50         3                    322,069.80       0.3      47,956,247.30        1.9
SOCIU2AD GERIRAL                         22,500.00      0.0    10,831,953.20       1.9                     18,000.00       0.0      14,446,423.30        1.6
RLUaNaDI                                      0.00      0.0      2,805,720.50      0.2                          0.00       0.0        3,114,013.30       1.4
TlREITRIAL                                    0.00      0.0      5.344 410.80      9.0                          0.00       0.0        5,401,609.70      10.5
TONURAIMA                                33,601.70      1.3     1,782,335.00    11.2                       19,279.20       2.2        3,142,160.40       4.1
Subtotal                           10,685,901.30      2.4   718,461,741.30      6.5                  11,608,966.50       2.5     957,588,491.50        5.5
FOREIGN BANKS
AIIIRICA                                      0.00    0.00         494,891.70    70.6                           0.00      0.00                0.00
CITIEAIU                                      0.00    0.00    20,980,332.40        5.3                          0.00      0.00      26,159,560.40        6.3
HOLAMES                           ~~~~~~~0.00    0.00    15,109,590.80  0.4                          0.00     0.00       21,365,086.10      10.2
LORZ8                                       0.00    0.00    11,526,467.30        8.0                          0.00      0.00      15,205,943.90        4.8
Subtotal                                    0.00      0.0    48,111.282.20       5.0                          0.00       0.0      62,730,590.40        7.2
T 0 T A L                          10,685,901.30      2.4   766,573,023.50       6.4                 11,608,966.50       2.5   1,020,319,081.90        5.6
F16NCU CO.,
COFIC                                    $80,895.00     4.7    19,702,974.00       6.1                     72,946.00       5.2       17,977,666.00       2.7
IND8SA                                  114,710.00      0.0    14,373,211.00       2.4                    438,704.00       0.4       16,174,376.00       1.5
ns1u).
FI1UU1L                                  50,327.00      2.5    14,189,607.00       9.4                     44,224.00       5.4       14,853,150.00       6.1
FIDASA                                   96,670.00      0.1      1,631,097.00      0.9                    118,765.00       0.8        2,171,965.00       0.8
rinmm
Anll@                                  20,088.00      0.0      1,973,342.00      0.6                     18,612.00       0.0        1,997,409.00       0.4
FICm                                     64,441.00      0.0      2,217,789.00        0                     70,443.00       0.0        5,924,840.00       1.0
FIRES)                                   27,913.00      0.0      3,645,481.00    14.9                      26,314.00       5.2        4,188,299.00      17.1
FILAS                                    23,500.00      0.0      1,083,294.00      1.4                     22,667.00       0.0        1,330,394.00       3.7
FXIImDCO                                107,897.00      0.0      3,638,449.00      0.2                    115,897.00       0.0        4,807,629.00       0.6
T 0 T A L                             586,441.00      0.9    62,455,244.00       5.5                    928,572.00       1.1       69,425,748.00       3.6
TOTAL GENERAL 8.F.P.                 11,272,342.30      2.3   029,028,267.50       6.3                 12,537,538.50       2.4   1,089,744,829.90        5.5
BANCO NAC. DE FOMENTO (1)                                      176,591,800.00    11.6                                          176,591,600,000.10       11.6



TABLE: 8
SUB-LOAN SUFEVISION:1988
LOANS             EFPWYIIIN                  DESC  PRaR          WAGES AND SALMIES                          RAW NAERIALS                                     SALES
------ -------------- EPLEO GEN.-                                  -        ------------------ -------------------    ------------------                                                         CA
ROVINCE        NO.    I         EST     ACTL         DIF.  EN SORES          ES          ACTUAL        DIF.          EST            ACTUAL          DIf.           EST           ACTUAL           Dff.          UTIL
AZUAY           88      14.3      320      323         3     434,880.3   129,380.3    172,569.1    43,188.8         455,837.6      865,914.6       410,077.0    1,293,477.3    1,353,789.1         60,311.8        4
CANAR            4       0,7        2         8        6     102,375.0        358.0      1,857.6      1,499.6         2,549.4        7,776.0         5,226.6         4,051.8        13,080.0        9,028.2        4
CARCII           6       1.0        7        11        4     395,893.3      1,199.2      4,180.0      2,980.8         4,821.6        4,490.0          (331.6)       11,539.5        12,870.0        1,330.5        6
CRDIBORAZO      14       2.3       33        43       10     296,774.6    10,249.9       26,209.2    15,959.3        36,779.7      168,043.3       131,263.6        79,080.1       287,026.0      207,945.9        6
MTOPAXI          9       1.5        3         9        6     868,166.7      3,936.0       7,116.0     3,180.0        47,350.9        44,824.0       (2,526.9)       65,988.8        67,292.0         1,303.2       5
EL OND            4      0.7       16        13       -3   2,430,000.0    11,107.2       15,601.7     4,494.5        14,967.8        62,458.2       47,490.4       110,540.0       163,103.5        52,563.5       8
ESNIAIEAS      10       1.6       65        51      -14      500,750.0    10,504.2      17,240.0     6,735.8        12,668.7        37,870.4        25,201.7       61,864.2        96,336.5        34,472.3       6
GAYAS           61       9.9      '456      458        2     678,755.3   252,942.3    266,461.5    13,519.2    1,372,016.9    1,899,313.5           527,296.6    2,793,513.9    3,393,254.4        599,740.5       6
DN    A         40       6.5       90       125       35     515,358.6    30,668.1       62,354.0    31,685.9       159,758.9       547,984.8      388,225.9       285,718.6       833,965.2       548,246.6       5
LWJA            49       8.0      105       100       -5     278,495.9    24,182.1       43,538.0    19,355.9       104,643.8       140,970.0       36,326.2       198,782.6       273,800.0        75,017.4       6
1DS RIOS         26      4.2      119        88      -31     839,023.7    36,164.0       36,567.9        403.9      574,265.3       639,270.0        65,004.7      741,459.0       639,100.7      (102,358.3)      5
NMAEI            73     11.9      253       312       59      653,548.2   141,810.3    153,337.2    11,526.9    1,149,960.4    1,017,584.9         (132,375.5)   1,805,289.4    1,677,766.0       (127,523.4)       7
NiPO              5      0.8       22        10      -12   1,605,523.8      6,539.0       4,956.0    (1,583.0)        9,228.6        23,880.0        14,651.4       36,345.6        41,400.0         5,054.4        4
PASTAZA          4       0.7       17        27       10      339,396.1     4,352.8      13,660.0     9,307.2        11,834.0        69,620.0        57,786.0       35,946.4       100,900.0        64,953.6        7
PICIDCA        173      28.2      820      1268      448      389,401.3   457,045.8    749,473.5   292,427.7    1,604,678.8    2,316,592.5          711,913.7    3,366,687.4    4,641,605.3    1,274,917.9          6
TINGAII          48      7.8      169       255       86      487,426.1     79398.3    134,249.8    54,851.5        423,125.9       556,153.6       133,027.7      808,851.2    1,184,490.8        375,639.6        7
614    100.1     2497      3101      604  10,815,768.9 1,199,837.5  1,709,371.5   509,534.0    5,984,488.3    8,402,745.8    2,418,257.5   11,699,135.8   14,779,779.5    3,080,643.7               6



MU: 9
S-WAN S?EhISIM:I
LOUS                 ElOWEl                   DECTO FOR1        soms MD SA A  ES                     RAU  RMAS                                 SAES%
------    --------------              ------------------                                                         -------------------                          CAP
RooICE       R.    %          S     ACTUAL     DIF.   DE SUICS        EST        MIL          DIF.          EST       ACTUAL        DIF.        ES?          ACTUL         DIF.        urn
UAIIy          82    12.0      433     337    -96        733,218.1  239,842.9    304,523.3    64,680.4   985,198.8  1,771,466.3    786,267.5   1,740,400.6   3,105,081.2   1,364,680.6    5
BOLIWRI         6      0.9       8      16       8      400,380.5    4,097.0     10,224.0     6,127.0    13,821.2     22,500.0      8,678.8      26,965.0     48,340.0      21,375.0      7
CANAl           7      1.0      39      21     -18       878,571.4    7,409.2    14,028.0     6,618.8    25,621.6     30,826.2      5,204.8      58,879.0      60,120.0      1,241.0      3
CARCI           6     0.9       10      10       0       787,212.8    7,206.4     9,460.8     2,254.4   199,680.8    245,088.8     45,408.0     254,160.0     323,767.3     69,607.3      4
CIEIRAO        19      2.8     119      92     -27       797,132.4   47,775.1    55,788.1     8,013.0   194,372.4    359,350.1    164,977.7     377,176.2     588,683.0     211,506.8     6
COmPAX         16      2.3      60      37    -23    1,608,250.9   17,940.6       22,646.4    4,705.8   177,163.7    234,520.0     57,356.3     319,787.9     361,880.0     42,092.1      4
E OO           44      6.4      87      63    -24    1,356,791.7   47,212.9      61,731.6    14,518.7   136,961.8    221,726.9     82,765.1     378,941.2     345,363.4     (33,577.8)    6
ESADAS         24      3.5     139     126    -13       652,660.5   47,433.6     84,918.0    37,484.4  1,030,318.3  1,052,788.9    22,470.6   1,385,797.0   1,384,900.7       (896.3)     7
GUAYAS         85    12.4      525     609      84      893,353.3  326,045.9    476,425.8   150,379.9  2,222,669.1  2,825,654.8    602,985.7   4,439,087.9   4,817,760.4    378,672.5      6
IJI8ARA        30     4.4      148     170      22      635,067.6   55,507.2     56,195.7       688.5   262,255.2    438,637.8    176,382.6     453,282.1     654,513.8     201,231.7     4      g
LOJA           59     8.6      140     146       6       590,991.1   43,281.5    73,566.0    30,284.5   144,558.0    351,980.0    207,422.0     299,026.7     548,125.0     249,098.3      4
LOS RIOS       21      3.1      76      61    -15    2,512,312.8   33,920.3       43,602.0    9,681.7  1,025,431.6    759,329.5   (266,102.1)    143,521.4   1,009,330.3    (425,191.1)    6
IwM            58      8.5     292     349      57       529,496.2  112,127.5    193,908.0    81,780.5   634,172.2    448,852.7   (185,319.5)  1,012,998.8    925,769.5     (87,229.2)     7
SKUIBIOS       7      1.0      40      18    -22    1,420,806.2   13,121.7       15,195.0     2,073.3   127,102.5    282,407.5    155,305.0    203,564.0     347,865.2     144,301.2      4
PASTAU          5      0.7      26      21      -5       725,337.6   25,754.1     22,288.8    (3,465.3)   50,431.8    123,600.0    73,168.2     126,606.6     205,000.0      78,393.4      5
PICWCA        160    23.3      769     893      124      897,824.3  728,266.6    925,757.8   197,491i2  3,214,841.6  4,692,023.1  1,477,181.5   6,177,948.1   7,755,704.3   1,577,756'2    57.
?IIRIU         48        7     224     321      97       524,282.8  153,389.2    247,270.0    93,880.8   706,499.2    966,005.5    259,506.3   1,286,983.0   1,761,120.0    474,137.0    72.
gm   CH.        9      1.3      23      33      10       459,283.7    6,962.5     14,040.0    7,077.5    51,932.3     49,500.0      (2,432.3)    95,531.7      80,000.0     (15,531.7)   68.
686   100.1    3153    3323      165   16,402,973.9 1,917,294.2  2,631,569.3   714,275.1 11,205,032.1  14,876,258.1  3,671,226.2  11,7N8,657.2  24,323,324.1   4,251,667.0    63.



TAE: 10
SUBLOF SUPERISICH:90
LObIB                   EIIPLOYNEM         DESCTO POR            IAGES AND SALAJES                RAW  ERIALS                          SALES
-------  -          --                     EIPLEOS GEN   --------                           -          -         - -------------                                CAP.
fR0INCE          NO.      t        EST     ACTUAL        EN SUaS               EST            ACrAL          EST             ACTUAL             EST            ACUL           UTIL.
CARCE              10      1.49       22        16          525,017.3          8,222.9          9,096.0       42,303.2          22,420.0      64,658.0          48,892.0      45.5
IIAU               16      2.38       34      114           531,879.3         45,484.1        83,509.5       211,002.6         435,748.9     427,951.3         773,294.0      48.7
PIMllCEA          139    20.71       737       931          760,725.0        618,103.1        865,083.4    3,226,158.5       4,160,531.1   6,518,364.6       7,943,669.8      46.7
COTOPAXI           40      5.96       43       124          854,053.1         47,572.6        105,916.0      376,736.5         735,523.3      645,321.3      1,121,224.0      48.3
lUN AIUA           56      8.34      219       326          626,543.4        150,233.7        268,503.2      809,292.9       2,362,540.0   1,471,184.5       4,032,200.0      64.6
BOLIVAR             4      0.59        8        21          239,594.4          3,194.0         10,740.0       19,337.8          41,200.0       31,806.0          70,800.0     77.5
CLIBORAZO          20      2.98       31        48        1,064,326.5         27,710.0         44,371.2      205,227.0         413,915.7      314,327.3        502,056.8      62.7
CANAR                7     1.04        9        10          822,510.0          5,196.0         14,676.0       23,316.7          28,428.6       38,177.0          52,600.0     49.2
AZUAY               50     7.45      229       285          457,360.7        129,513.0        274,868.2      379,292.0         979,964.5      850,321.2      1,756,638.7      54.2
LOJA               71    10.58       160       205          508,320.1         73,682.3        155,592.0      388,018.3         622,260.0      690,153.2         997,430.0     70.0
ESNEIAIDAS          24     3.57       92       108          755,066.5         61,197.1         69,492.0       70,922.5         105,610.0      281,308.2         461,582.0     67.7
NANABI              64     9.53      330       360          666,382.8        187,900.6        357,180.8    1,369,006.8       1,438,993.8   2,156,836.1       2,387,679.7      58.7
LOS RIOS            24     3.57      123       122        1,060,064.0         51,703.1         80,265.7      984,542.1       1,105,351.8   1,368,506.6       1,555,072.6      71.2
GUAYAS              99    14.75       607      768        1,019,623.9        467,913.3        735,799.8    2,691,564.4       5,719,200.6   5,684,291.8       10,121,340.1     71.5
EL ORO             44      6.55      167       112        1,442,958.3        104,639.7        124,799.4      741,513.0         381,876.0   1,283,864.1       1,075,945.7      70.0
ZAIMRA CEN.          2     0.29        1         4          548,291.2            412.8          1,980.0          108.0           2,520.0        2,963.2           9,600.0     80.0
GALUAGOS             1     0.14         4                                      6,900.0          9,600.0        2,124.0          24,000.0       41,280.0          60,000.0     92.0
671    99.92     2816      3554       11,882,716.5      1,989,578.3      3,211,473.2   1,540,466.3       18,580,084.3  21,871,314.4       32,970,025.4     63.4



TABLE: 11
THIRD SSE: INTEREST RATE COMPLIANCE
(percent)
Maximi         Fin. Inst.'s  Fin. Inst.'s   Fin. Inst.'s
Rates on      Conventional  Preferential  External funds Standard           Inflation      90 day
SSE Sub-loans Lending rate  Lending rate  Lending rate   Lending rate   (6MMA)             CD rate
1986 JUNE              24.32          24.32          18.81           24.32            0.00           21.2    28.89
JULY              24.32          24.32          18.81           24.32            0.00           20.9    29.98
AUGUST            24.32          24.32          18.81           24.32            0.00           20.8    31.10
SEPTEMBER         24.32          24.32          18.81           24.32            0.00           21.1    32.25
OCTOBER           24.32          24.32          18.81           24.32            0.00           22.2    33.22
NOVEHBER          24.32          24.32          18.81           24.32            0.00          23.4    31.95
DECEMBER          24.32          24.32          18.81           24.32            0.00           24.7    31.68
1987 JANUARY           24.32          24.32          18.81           24.32            0.00           25.8    30.22
FEBRUARY          24.32          24.32          18.81           24.32            0.00           26.3    30.96
MARCH             24.32          24.32          18.81           24.32            0.00           27.3    30.42
APRIL             24.32          24.32          18.81           24.32            0.00           27.6    32.86
MAY               24.32          24.32          18.81           24.32            0.00           28.0    32.01
JUNE              27.69          29.96          21.00           27.69            0.00           28.7    32.12
JULY              27.69          29.96          21.00           27.69            0.00           29.8    32.35
AUGUST            27.69          29.96          21.00           27.69            0.00           30.5    32.22
SEPTEMBER         27.69          29.96          21.00           27.69            0.00           30.4    32.74
OCTOBER           27.69          29.96          21.00           27.69            0.00           30.0    32.63
NOVEMBER          27.69          29.96          21.00           27.69            0.00           30.0    34.93
DECEMBER          29.96          29.96          24.32           29.96            0.00           30.2    39.03
1988 JANUARY           29.96          29.96          24.32           29.96            0.00           30.7    39.39
FEBRUARY          29.96          29.96          24.32           29.96            0.00           32.0    40.03
MARCH             29.96          29.96          24.32           29.96            0.00           33.3    40.15
APRIL             29.96          29.96          24.32           29.96            0.00           36.0    40.89
MAY               29.96          29.96          24.32           29.96            0.00           39.0    41.21
JUNE              34.56          29.96          24.32           34.56            0.00           41.9    42.20
JULY              34.56          29.96          24.32           34.56            0.00           43.9    43.44
AUGUST            34.56          29.96          24.32           34.56           45.06           48.2    45.40
SEPTEMBER         34.56          29.96          24.32           34.56           46.69           54.0    42.90
OCTOBER           34.56          29.96          24.32           34.56           48.17           59.8    43.65
NOVEMBER          34.56          29.96          24.32           34.56           49.73           65.3    45.07
DECEMBER          34.56          29.96          24.32           34.56           50.07           71.3    45.07



Haximum        Fin. Inst.'s  Fin. Inst.'s   Fin. Inst.'s
Rates on      Conventional  Preferential  External funds Standard           Inflation      90 day
SSE Sub-loans Lending rate  Lending rate  Lending rate   Lending rate   (6MMA)             CD rate
1989 JANUARY           34.56          29.96          24.32           34.56           51.14           78.3    44.87
FEBRUARY         34.56          29.96          24.32           34.56           51.34           83.0    44.94
MARCH             34.56          29.96         24.32            34.56          51.70           87.6    45.27
APRIL            34.56          29.96          24.32           34.56           52.08           89.8    45.80
MAY               34.56          29.96         24.32           34.56           52.12           90.2    46.61
JUNE              34.56          39.24         34.56            34.56          55.30           89.7    47.33
JULY              34.56          39.24         34.56           34.56           55.33           89.6    47.62
AUGUST           34.56           39.24         34.56           34.56           55.56           86.2    47.87
*  SEPTEMBER         34.56          39.24          34.56           34.56           56.01           81.0    48.67
OCTOBER           34.56          39.24         34.56            34.56           55.28           76.3    47.33
NOVEMBER          34.56          39.24         34.56           34.56           55.43           71.8    47.40
DECEMBER          34.56          39.24         39.24           39.24           56.31           66.7    49.21
1990 JANUARY           34.56          39.24          39.24           39.24           56.03           61.1    48.54
FEBRUARY          34.56          39.24         39.24           39.24           56.30           57.5    49.13
MARCH             34.56          39.24          39.24           39.24           56.52          53.2    49.37
APRIL             34.56         39.24          39.24           39.24           56.46           50.4    49.31
MAY               34.56          39.24         39.24            39.24           56.98          49.0    50.34
JUNE              46.23          42.80         42.80            42.80           58.77          48.0    54.10
JULY              46.23          42.80         42.80            42.80           58.82           47.8    54.28
AUGUST            46.23          42.80         42.80           42.80           59.88           47.7    56.51
SEPTEMBER         46.23          42.80          42.80           42.80           61.87          48.2    60.92                                                      ,
OCTOBER           46.23          42.80          42.80           42.80           60.85          48.5    58.66
NOVEMBER          46.23          42.80         42.80            42.80          59.33           48.7    53.59
DECEMBER          54.06          47.62         47.62           47.62           58.61           49.0    52.08
1991 JANUARY           54.06          47.62          47.62           47.62           58.28           49.0    51.15
FEBRUARY          54.06          47.62         47.62            47.62          56.94           49.1    48.56
MARCH             54.67          47.62          47.62           47.62           56.67          49.4    48.04
APRIL             54.67          47.62          47.62           47.62           57.77          49.2    50.44
MAY               54.67          47.62          47.62           47.62           57.47           49.0    49.74
JUNE              54.67          52.52          52.52           52.52           58.19           49.0    51.42
JULY              54.67          52.52          52.52           52.52           58.97           48.4    52.95
AUGUST            54.67          52.52         52.52            52.52          59.79           48.3    54.37
SEPTEMBER         54.67          52.52          52.52           52.52           59.52           48.5    53.51
OCTOBER           54.67          52.52          52.52           52.52           59.60           48.9    53.63
NOVEMBER          54.67          52.52         52.52            52.52           61.80           48.5    57.83
DECEMBER          61.01          55.00          62.80           62.80           62.80           48.5    59.44
* Interest rates are expressed as annual yield by converting simple interest rates into compounded rates based on semi-annual payments.



TABLE: 12
HIRD SSE: EXCUNG RATE COVER: GAINS I LOSSESt
(percent)
Sucre Equiv.
CFN             BCE               BCE       Exchange    World Bank     6 lonths    Interest rate     Net
Rates on   DISCOUNT:        REDSCNT:         REDSCN1  rate cover   Variable $   Devaluation      on dollar    Gain/Loss
SSE Sub-loans 6YRS.  >6YRS.  <6YRS.  >6YRS.  AVG.         preuiua   Interest rate     Rate      Denoinated loan
1986 JE              23.00   19.00   18.00    16.50   15.50   15.77         16.26          8.50         29.9            41.22   -17.7
DlrEIER          23.00   19.00   18.00   16.50    15.50   15.77        16.26           8.23         78.6            93.59   -39.9
1987 JIWE            26.00    22.00   21.00   19.50   18.50   18.83         19.58          7.92         17.8            27.32    -6.1
DE OIER          28.00    24.00   23.00    21.50    20.50    20.83      21.78          7.76         81.8            96.13   -37.9
1988 JEE             32.00    28.00   27.00   25.50   24.50    24.83        26.24          7.72         35.1             45.71   -13.4
DEUIH            32.00    28.00   27.00    25.50   24.50   24.83       26.24           7.59        223.6           248.67   -63.8
1989 JIUE            32.00    28.00   27.00    25.50    24.50   24.84       26.25          7.65          41.7            52.71   -17.3
DeC              32.00    28.00   27.00   25.50   24.50   24.84         26.25          7.73         43.1            54.39   -18.2
1990 JIlE            41.85    37.85   36.85   35.35   34.35   34.69         37.55          7.75          40.0            51.05    -8.9
DEI              48.24    44.24    43.24   41.74    40.74    41.08      45.15          7.70         34.5            45.04     0.1
1991 JIII            48.73    44.73   43.73   42.23    41.23    41.57       45.74           7.70         36.0            46.71    -0.7
DEC              53.78    49.78   48.78   47.28    46.28    46.62       51.90          7.71         54.8            66.97    -9.0
Interest rates are expressed as annual yield by converting sisple interest rates into coiopnded rates based on seui-amual paents.



TABLE: 13
FOPINAR:
STATEMENT OF CONDITION
(Sucres)
1986       1987        1988        1989       1990        1991
Cash & Due from Banks                      103559       64863       21204     806438
Short-term Investments                           0     300000           0           0
Interest Due from                          359417      709599      789495    1495098
Loans                                     8141858   10250918   11620366   13854973
Loan Loss Provision                        10000       55163      441473     441473
Net Loans                        0    8131858   10195755   11178893   13413500
Premises & Equipment                                    13455       23412       77294
Other Assets                               284181       27447         864     441818
TOTAL ASSETS                     0    8879015   11311119   12013868   16234148
Deposits and Loans                        7319670    8967405    9478715   13472715
Interest Due to                            503334      476006      696362    1117893
Other Liabilities                             6138     307361      521870       19286
Capital Subscription                       550000      641291      641291      550000
Retained Earnings                          499873      919056      675630    1074254
Equity Capital                     0    1049873    1560347    1316921    1624254
TOTAL LIABILITIES                0    8879015   11311119   12013868   16234148



TABLE: 14
FOPINAR
STATEMENT OF INCOME
1986       1987        1988       1989        1990       1991
Interest Income                           1148278    2200452    2700811    4579350
Non-Interest Income                          6719      10726       21702      24166
TOTAL INCOHE                      0    1154997    2211178    2722513    4603516             0
Interest Expenses                          848078    1458142    2113616    3375829
Salaries & Benefits                         37593      64241       96239     153667
CFN Nanagement Fees                         75256     214418      334472     563092
Loan Loss Provision                             0      45164      386310           0
Other                                        9816      10030       35302      112304
Total Operating Expenses          0      122665     333853      852323     829063           0
TOTAL EXPENSES                    0      970743    1791995    2965939    4204892            0
NET INCOHE                        0      184254     419183    -243426      398624           0
l.A



TABLE: 15
FOPINAR
SELECTED RATIOS
1986       1987        1988        1989       1990        1991
EARNINGS PERFORMANCE
Return on Assets(%)                        2.08        3.71       -2.03       2.46         ERR
Return on Equity(%)                       17.55       26.86      -18.48      24.54         ERR
INTEREST MARGIN
Interest Spread(%)                         2.52        5.21        0.94       8.00         ERR
Net Interest Nargin(%)                     3.69        7.24        5.05       8.69         ERR
OPERATING EXPENSES
Oprtng Exp's to Income
(net interest + other inc.)(%)            39.97       44.33     139.98       67.53         ERR
Personnel Exp.to Op.Exps(%)               30.65       19.24       11.29      18.54         ERR
CFN Fees to Op. Exp's(%)                  61.35       64.23       39.24      67.92         ERR
ASSET QUALITY
Reserve to Loans(%)                        0.12        0.54        3.80       3.19         ERR
Provision to Loans(%)                      0.00        0.44        3.32       0.00         ERR
CAPITAL ADEQUACY                                                                                                                                                           ur
Capital to Assets(%)                      11.82       13.79       10.96      10.01         ERR
Loans to Capital(X)                        7.76        6.57        8.82       8.53         ERR



CF/|/N CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
F O P I N                                                   * FOPIh5? -
PAG          1
ECONOPICIS CHARACTERISTICS OF PIOJECTS FINAkCED UNDER LOAN BIRF 2673-EC                       FECHA : 06/10/92
DESDE 860101 HASTA 861231
COMPAkY                          AMOUNT                   T 0 T A L       P R 0 J E C T -  C 0 S T
APROVED        ----------------------------------------------------   X           X      t
TOTAL            LOCAL            FOREING        FORE. LOCAL CAP.  TASA  TASA EMPL.
RAW UTIL. ECO. FIN. GENER.
MATE.
GALVEZ CORTES CARLOS             14.400.000,00        Z5.80C.000,00      13.560.000,00    12.240.o0,oO0  62,0  38,0             28,3  40,7    13
IRAL6RAF qCUATORIANA C. L        11.016.000,00        25.443.000,00    16.079.400,00        9.363.60C,00  48.0  52,0  66,6  42,6  32,8          6
COOPRINTEI JESSICA LTDA.          9.630.000,00        12.588.000,00       4.402.500,00      8.185.500.00  85,0  15,0 100,0  47,6  58,0    10
MANUFACTU ERA DE BALASTRO         9.000.000,00        39.470.170,00    31.820.170,00        7.650.000,00  25.0  75,0            41,5  59,3    31
PLASTICOS DE CALIDAD              6.300.000,00        12.227.000,00       6.872.000,00      5.355.000,00         100,0          40,5  96,4
RODRIGUEZ COLL CARLOS             9.00C0000,00        15.040.000 00      7.390.000,00      7.650.000,00  64.0  36,0  70,0  41,8  45.0    11
ALVARAOO PRADO HUMBERTO          14.400.000,00        33.527.200,00    21.287.200,00    12.240.000,00  47,0  53,0               51,6  63,8    22
KUNG-PIK LEON WILSON             10.755.000,00        17.264.308,00       8.122.558,00      9.141.750,00  57.o  43,0            48,3  43,6    19
PRODUCTOS ALIMENTICIOS NO        14.394.600,00        25.357.000,00    13.121.590,00    12.235.410,0G  6!,C  37.0               21,0  40.9    17
TEXPLAST INDUSTRIAL Y COM         5.400.000,00         7.200.000,00       2.610.000,00      4.590.OOC,00  60,0  40.0            80,1  98,3
CASA DE fERNANDO                  9.304.200,00        12.594.400,00       4.685.830.00      7.908.570,00  82,0  18,0            29,2  31,0    12
ESPINOSA ALVARO MARIA TER         9.137.700,00        24.158.400,00    16.391.355,00        7.767.045,00  42,0  58.0            25,9  27,0      8
BEATE CONTAG CARLOS ESERN         9.018.360,00        17.905.850,00    10.240.244.00        7.665.606,OC  55,0  45,C            67.8  34,0    20
PEREZ LAMDIN JUAh                14.400.000,00        19.000.000,00       6.760.000,00    12.240.000.00  60,0  40,0             65,3  53,8      6
PLANTAGRd CIA. LTDA.              8.100.000,00        17.504.000,00    10.619.000,00        6.885.000,00  51,0  49,0            30,9  49,1      6
INVERSIONES CORPICO S.A.         14.400.000,00        25.850.700,00    13.610.700,00    12.240.000,00  61,0  39.0  70.0  65,4  64,0    20
HOLGUIN PEREZ LUIS               10.800.000,00        30.110.000,00    20.930.000,00        9.180.000,00  39.0  61,0  70,4  66,8  49,1    16
VIVANCO OBANDO VICTOR MAN         5.949.900,00        15.132.100,00    10.074.685,00        5.057.415,0   43,0  57,0  75,0  22,6  35,9
ELASTO S.A.                      13.500.000,00        49.488.700,00    38.013.700o00    11.475.000,00  30,0  70,0  80.5  47.7  47.0    20
PULLEY NORMA                     14.400.000.00        37.537.100,00    25.297.100,00    12.240.000,00  42,0  58.0  60,0  31,1  28.0    18
INDUSTRIAS METALURGICAS A         7.200.000,00        10.733.000,00       4.613.000,00      6.120.000,00  74.0  26,0           15,9  49,0       2
PERFILSA ;.A.                    14.400.000,00        21.400.000,00       9.160.000,00    12.240.000,0-  59,0  .1.0  43,5  62,C  55.0    10
CREVITEX                          9.900.000,00        14.000.000,00       5.585.000.00      8.415.000,00  78,0  22,0  85,0  29,0  61,9          5
ALZAMORA CORDOVEZ JAIME          14.400.000.00        29.370.000,00    17.130.000,00    12.240.OOC,00  48,0  52,0  67.0  45,5  44,1    13
LICAUCHO CIA.LTDA.               14.400.000,00        30.622.000,00    18.382.000,00    12.240.000,00  52,0  48,0  80.0  40,0  39.4    10
LASORATORIOS CALOAG CIA.          7.200.000,00        16.629.000,00    10.509.000,00        6.120.000,00  48.0  52,0            22,5  57,6      8
OXIDO OE PLOMO CIA. LTDA.        14.400.000,00        34.132.000,00    21.892.000,00    12.240.000,OC  46,0  54,0               38,5  49.9      5
COYSE CIA. LTDA.                 14.400.000,00        21.985.200,00       9.745.200,00    12.240.000,00  72.0  28,0  80,0  43,7  41,0           4
RETPE CIA. LTDA.                 14.400.000,00        22.296.500,00    10.056.500,00    12.240.000,00  71,C  29,0  70,0  21,9  33.9    12
GUEVARA VELARDE FAUSTO           10.800.000,00        15.549.100,00       6.369.100,00      9.180.000.00  77,0  23.0  84,5  41,2  50.0    10
NARANJO MANZANO CARLOS           11.232.000,00        14.682.400,00       5.135.200,00      9.547.200,00  84,C  16,C            33,6            R
GOMEZ DE LA TORRE RUIZ TE        10.010.250,00        17.462.000,00       8.953.287.50      8.508.712,5C  63,0  37,0            67,7  49,2      5
CONZALEZ GRANDA JORGE            13.500.000,00        29.044.000,00    17.569.000,00    11.475.000,00  51.0  49,0               45,4  31.2    23
SOINFETAL                        14.400.000,00        21.510.000,00       9.270.000,00    12.240.000,00  74,0  26.0             18.3  46,4    23
MATINCO S A                      14.400.000,00        21.850.000,00       9.610.000,00    12.240.000.00  73,0  27,0             21,7  47,0    29
ALFOMBRAS ORM                     8.100.000,00        27.079.100,00    20.194.100,00        6.885.000,00  33,0  67,0            65,6  54,4      8
CERAPICA VIVA CIA.LTDA.           9.000.000,00        25.200.000,00    17.550.000,00        7.650.000,00  39,0  61,0            56,4  49.1    18
8ANAPLAST CIA. LTDA.              9.900.000,00        21.982.000,00    13.567.000,00        8.415.000,00  36.0  64,0            44,7           20
VELEZ DUENAS GUSTAVO             14.400.000,00        26.753.000,00    14.513.000,00    12.240.000,00  59.0  41,0               51,3  45,4    20
TEXSANED                          9.117.000,00        11.924.364,00       4.174.914,00      7.749.450,00  84,0  16,0            46,3  62,2      6
ROMERO CISNEROS HENRY            12.240.000,00        31.225.000,00    20.821.000.00    10.404.000,00  43.0  57,0               21,0  29,0      7
ELIZALDE EGUES CARLOS JAV         8.700.480,00        12.934.830,00       5.539.422*00      7.395.408,00  74,0  26,0            59,9  82,6      9
ARCASOL CIA. LTDA.               14.400.000,00        27.533.000,00    15.293.000,00    12.240.000,00  33,0  67,0               29,6  48.0    10



CF/I/ CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
F O P I N A R                                               * FOPIN57 *
PAG          2
ECONOMICIS CHARACTERISTICS OF PROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 8IRF 2673-EC                      FECHA   06/10/92
------------------------------------------------------------------__---
DESDE 860101 NASTA 861231
.....................                      ..................                             .........                   ......           ........
COMPANY                          AMOUNT                   T 0 T A L  -  P R 0 J E C T -  C 0 S T
APROVED        ----------------------------------------------------   X           X      X
TOTAL            LOCAL            FOREING        FORE. LOCAL CAP.  TASA  TASA EMPL.
RAW  UTIL. ECO.  FIN. GENER.
MATE .
QUIMICA CENTRAL S.A. QUIz        14.400.000,00        28.544.000,00    16.304..OOO,0O    12.240.000,00  56,0O  44.,0            39,5  41,1      S
ROLF wITTMER TURISMO GALA         5.400.000,00         7.798.753,00      3.208.753,00       4.590.000,00  76,0  24,0            63,6  69,6
ALIENTOS ;C5INI C.LTDA.          14.400.000,00        36.000.000,00    23.76o.000,00    12.240.000,00  44,0  56,0               38,E  47,9    28
T O T A L        519.405.490,00   1.041.437.175,00   600.792.508,50   440.644.666,50                                           548
.........fla.... ....-          ........      ....- .. .. .. . ..  .. --- ... a-..                             .....



CfeI CORPORACION F/NANC/ERA NACIONAL
F O P I N A R                                                * FOPIN57 ^
PAG1
ECONOMICIS CHARACTERISTICS OF PROJECTS FZNANCED UNDER LOAN OtRF 2673-EC                        FECHA : 06/10/92
DESDE 870101 HASTA 871231
COMPANY                          AMOUNT                    T 0 T A L  -  P R 0 J E C T -  C 0 S T
APROVED        --                                                            X
TOTAL            LOCAL            FOREING         FORE. LOCAL CAP.  TASA  TASA EMPL.
RAW UTIL. ECO. VIN. GENER.
PATE.
.                              ..s....s..a..a....*....u..a..=.*............ " - --.-                             .      -.- .................        --        - .-----                         .--.------- ...=.u.s...... - --S-.. ................
ESCUDERO CORREA JULIO tES         9.990.000,00         14.800.000,00       6.308.500,00       8. 491.500,00  65,0  35,0           3.,2  53,1    18
TEXTILES LEIVA VACA C.LTD        14.400.000,00         37.578.000,00      25.338.000,00    12.240.000,00  42.0  58,0              46,4  35,1    27
PLAVISE S.A.                     14.400.000,C0         33.864.690,00      21.624.690,00    12.240.000,00  47,0  53,0              53,6           17
PONCE NOSOA ENRICUE              10.598.380,00         15.494.135,00       6.485.512,00       9.008.623,00  80,0  20.0            30,3  55,8      3
CORPORACION TECNICA DE LA        14.400.000,00         23.063.552,00      10.823.552,00     12.240.000,00  69,0  31,0             50,1  71,2    21
LATI NOAERICANA DE ENVASE         8.100.000,00         12.204.700,00       5.319.700,00       6.8S5.000,00  73,0  27,0            19,9  45,1     10
EMPRCNACO EMPRESA PROVEED        14.400.000,00         19.000.000,00       6.760.000,00    12.240.000,00  84,0  10,0              77,5  S6,9
-ENLOCAL C.LTDA.                 13.500.000.00         28.875.000,00      17.400.000,00    11.475.000,00  51,0  49,0              22,2  51,4    16
CALLE ANDRADE LUIS               14.400.000,00         19.790.000,00       7.550.000,00    12.240.000,00  8O0O  20,0              33,6  62,6    20
VISALTUR S.A.                    13.815.900,00         21.039.000,00       9.295.485,00    11.743.515,00  57,0  43,0              35,4  55.3     13
FICANT C. LTDA.                  13.500.000,00         18.750.000,00       7.275.000,00    11.475.000,00  69,0  31,0              37,1  70,3      4
LANODAU2I jURADO OSWALDO         14.173.240,63         33.636.900,00      21.635.395,47    12.051.504.53  47,0  5t,0              30,2           17
CODECET S.A.                     10.800.000,00         22.010.000,00      12.830.000,00       9.180.000,00  34,0  66,0             4,4   5,8    21
SANCNEC VILLACIS ELOY ALS        11.700.000,00         26.634.000,00      16.689.000,00       9.945.000,00  45,0  55,0            40,0  51,0    11
RESTAURANT LA CASA DE FER         2.700.000,00          3.530.000,00       1.235.000,00       2.295.000,00  84,0  16,0           65,0  97,8    10
ETMCOSA                          14.400.000,00         21.000.000,00       5.700.000,00    12.240.000,00   4,0  96,0              29o4  58,9      5
ACTUAL IMPRESIONES CREATI         6.750.000,00         16.823.000,00      11.085.500,00       5.737.500,00  34.0  66,0            39,0  63,0    12
ALTAMIRANO RUIZ JUAN             13.500.000,00         20.837.160,00       9.362.160,00      11.475.000,00  54,0  46,0           41,4            10 0
ALARCON RIVADENEIRA LUIS          9.000.000,00         15.242.000,00       7.592.000,00       7.650.000,00  65,0  35,0            30,7  36.2      6
COELLO RODRIGUEZ MERCEDES        13.050.000,00         21.250.000,00    10.157.500,00        11.C92.500,00  75,0  2S,0           27,9  55,6       6
IONOCILAMENTOS DEL GUAYAS        14.400.000,00         27.500.000,00      15.260.000,00      12.240.000,00  43.0  57,0            16,2  36,9    13
IND.DEL AGRO LA ESTANCIA          7.809.300,00         10.731.000,00       4.093.095,00       6.637.905,00  80,0  20,0           60,0  45,2
CASTRO PAREDES ROSALIA            9.523.800,00         12.450.000,00       4.354.770,00       8.095.230,00  84,0  16,0            63,0  43,7      8
JUSTAMOND CLAUDE GASTON            9.000.000,00        20.095.200,00      12.445.200,00       7.650.000,00  49,0  51,0            24,4  67.3
VASQUEZ BEPNA JULIO              10.697.142,86         16.000.000,00       6.907.428,57       9.0Q2.571,43  80,0  20,0            26,2  54,0      4
SUERRERO 80NILLA VICENTE          14.400.000,00        20.000.000,00       7.760.000,00    12.240.000,00  80,0  20.0              27,2  55,4      4
RAMIREZ CASTRO GUILLERMO           9.499.500.00        13.193.750,00       5.119.175.00       8.074.575,00  80.0  20,0            29,6  57,0      3
BORRERO CAMPUZANO ANICETO          7.669.710,00        10.837.500,00       4.318.246,50       6.519.253,50  80.0  20,0  80.0  27,7  59,0          3
AISLANTES PLUMAVIT DEL EC          9.270.000,00        12.980.600,00       5.101.100.00       7.879.500,00  63,0  37,0            19.3  50,4      5
SISMODE CIA.LTDA.                 14.400.000,00        21.897.000,00       9.657.000,00    12.240.000,00  39,0  61,0              44,4  37,6    11
URSINA SANTANA ANIBAL HUM          8.831.700,00        25.357.000,00      17.850.055,00       7.506.945,00  35,0  62,0            34,4  32,6,    2
EMBOTELLADORA ROSA DEL GU        14.400.000,00         36.426.000,00      24.186.000,00    12.240.000,00  41,0  59,0  75,0  21,4  58,8            9
HELADOS UNIDOS S.A.               14.400.000,00        19.050.000,00       6.810.000,00    12.240.000.00  82,0  18,0  t5,0  31,7  63,9
ACUARlOS ROCADRE C.A.             14.400.000,00        39.955.887,0o      27.715.887,00    12.240.000,00  40,0  60.0              24.4  52,1    18
SOLINES CORONEL JAIME             11.137.500,00        36.868.000,00      27.401.125,00       9.466.875,00  33.0  67,0            31,1  37,8    17
CALVOPINA RIVAS SAMUEL             7.740.000,00        19.972.000,00      13.393.000,00       6.579.000,00  43,0  57,0            50,6  45,6      7
ELABORADOS NUTRITIVOS S.A         14.400.000,00        27.503.000,00      15.263.000,00    12.240.000,00  55.0  45.0              63,8  53'5    14
A9AD FREIRE JUAN CARLOS            9.216.000,00        17.115.000,00       9.281.400,00       7.833.oOO,00  59,0  41,0            24,2  29,1      3
CANGAS ORDONEZ LUIS                9.064.800,00        12.455.700,00       4.750.620,00       7.705.080,00  80,0  20,0            35,4  30,2      5
FALCONI VELEC GUILLERMO           14.400.000.00        20.000.000,00       7.760.000,00    12.240.000,00  64.0  36,0              33,3  52,8      4
VERTICOR CIA.LTDA.                 9.000.000,00        13.527.000,00       5.877.000,00       7.650.000,00  73,0  27,0            28,7  53,6    14
DECOPRINT CIA. LTDA.             13.950.000,00         22.758.000,00      10.900.500,00    11.857.500,00  6S,0  32,0              29,8  39.7      4
NAVARRO DONOSO  I1POLITO          12.150.000,00        29.506.000,00      19.178.500.00    10.327.500,00  45.0  55.0              35,9  24,8      3



CFh7II CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
F O P I N A R                                               * FOPIN57 *
PAG :        2
ECONOMICIS CHARACTERISTICS OF PROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN  eIRf 2673-EC                     FECHA : 06/10/92
------------------------------------------------------------------__---
DESDE 870101 HASTA 871231
.......... ...     ..........        ............... ****S*U*W                * E*3 T......       lSf*..... -.------- .....................-......--
COMPANY                          AMOUNT                   T 0 T A L  -  P R 0 J E C T -  C 0 S T
APROVED        ----------------------------------------------------   X           %      S
TOTAL            LOCAL            FOREING        FORE. LOCAL CAP.  TASA  TASA EMPL.
RAW  UTIL. ECO.  FIN. GENFR.
MAT.
..................................              ws.............................................................
ENCOLAJES ECUATORIANOS C.        14.400.000,00        20.357.360,00       8.117.360,00    12.240.000,00  70,0  30.0             48,9  61,2      8
PLASTIMUEBLE CIA LTDA.           13.230.000,00        19.461.700,00       8.216.200,00      11.245.500.00  62,0  38,0           49,8  62,9      8
CORTEZ FLORES JOSE               12.600.000,00        20.008.000,00       9.298.000,00    10.710.000,00  69,0  31,0             40,6  43,7      4
ALTA,qINERA S.A.                 14.130.000,00        2e.077.000,00    14.066.500,00    12.010.500,00  60,0  40,0               50,3  32,0    20
SIEL CIA. LTDA.                  13.050.000,00        22.070.000,00    10.977.500,00        11.092.50C,00  65,0  35,0           32,6  39,8    17
GONZALEZ AMADA                   14.400.000,00        20.000.000,00       7.760.000,00    12.240.000,00  80,0  20,0             20,7  41,7    16
VELALCAZAR ROCHA NELSON R        10.908.000,00        15.570.700,00       6.298.900,00       9.271.800,00  77,0  23.0           29,0  28,5      4
GUACHO MULLO MANUEL              14.400.000,00        38.070.000,00    25.830.000,00    12.240.000,00  42,0  58,0               27,9  21,6      7
ALIFRIO S.A.                     14.400.000,00        22.430.000,00    10.190.000,00    12.240.000.00  71,0  29,0               24,2  48,6      9
LOOP ARGOTE TULY                 14.400.000,00        21.035.680,00       8.795.680,00    12.240.000,00  61,0  39,0             30,2  50.2    27
INDUSTRIAS  IhTESA CIA. LT        9.000.000,00        15.115.900,00       7.465.900,00      7.650.000,00  66,0  34.0  70,0  48,1  54,2          8
RODRIGUEZ H. KLESER              12.600.000,00        18.000.000,00       7.290.000,00    10.710.000,00  77,0  23,0             25,6  53,0      3
CAMARTISA C.A.                   13.500.000,00        29.913.432,00    18.438.432,00       11.475.000,00  53,0  47,0            27,0  44,7
BALANCEADOS FORTAVIT CIA.        14.400.000,00        20.000.000,00       7.760.000,00    12.240.000,00  80,0  20.0 100,0  21,9  46,1    10
COMPA4IA GALAPAGOS HOSTAL        14.400.000,00        26.589.000,00    14.349.000,00    12.240.000,00  60,0  40,0               28,3  38,8      5
HOTEL MANTA IMPERIAL             11.700.000,00        17.499.150,00       7.554.150,00      9.945.000,00  74,0  26,0            63,6  75,6      2
RESTAURANT EQUINOCCIO            1C.800.000,00        14.141.000,00       4.961.000,00      9.180.000,00  84,0  16,0  67,0  33,7  51,S          5
PICAZA JOSE ROMANO               14.400.000,00        36.987.450,00    24.747.450,00    12.240.OOC,00  39,0  61,0  80,0  47,0  34,2    16
ESPINOZA T. SERGIO HERNAN        12.177.900,00        15.926.400,00       5.575.185,00     10.351.215,00  84.0  16,0  82,0  38,5  38,9          5
LEBED SVIGILSKY MIGUEL           14.400.000,00        22.000.000.00       9.760.000,00    12.240.000,00  63,0  37,0  86,0  24,9  43,0           6
MARMOL CABRERA JORGE             10.800.000,00        23.752.600,00    14.572.600,0C        9.180.000,00  50,0  50,0            34,9  54,3      9
ZUMBA ZHUMI PANUEL A.             9.000.000,00        15.450.000,00       7.800.000,00      7.650.000,00  64,0  36,0  80,0  33,8  60,9
PREPARADOS CALCAREOS PREC        18.180.000,00        27.342.000.00    11.889.000.00    15.453.000,00  73,0  27.0               27,1  41,6      3
HURTADO ANDRADE CARLOS AL        14.399.640,00        22.224.200,00       9.984.506,00    12.239.694,00  71,0  29,0             29,0  39,2      5
CORTEZ PIGUAVE OSWALDO           10.849.500,00        17.053.750,00       7.831.675.00      9.222.075,00  61,0  39,C  75,0  16,6  45,0          2
EXIMETAL C.A.                    14.400.000,00        22.000.000,00       9.760.000.00    12.240.000,00  37,0  63.0             16,8  39,0      5
CEVALLOS GANDO JUAN CARLO        14.400.000,00        23.000.000,00    10.760.000.00       12.240.000.00  69,0  31.0            24,0  46.3      8
LATINOAMERICANA DE ENVASE         6.300.000,00         8.634.000,00       3.279.000,00       5.355.000,00  71,0  29,0  75,0  25,7  66,5         3
ALMEIDA EDWIN                     9.738.900.00        21.921.000,00    13.642.935,00         8.278.065,00  49,0  51,0           4C,7  43.5    18
TEJIDOS RITA                     14.400.000,OC        24.000.000,00    11.760.000,00    12.240.000,00  66.0  34,0  76,1  40,8  31,9             4
MARTINEZ CHIRIHOGA GUILLE        12.600.000,00        18.369.000,00       7.659.000,00     10.710.000,00  60,0  40,0  83,0  52,8  37,1   8
POLIFIrRAS DEL ECUADOR S.        14.400.000,00        20.223.000.00       7.983.000,00     12.240.000,00  46,0  54.0            16.5  48,3      S
EMPAGUES CIA. LTDA.              10.800.000,00        21.692.400,00    12.512.400,00        9.180.000,00  55,0  45,0            68,14  67,6     4
KONNA CIA LTDA                   13.500.000,00        30.848.400,00    19.373.400.00    11.475.COO,OO  4*.O  52,0               59,2  38.3    19
EMPRESA TURISTICA YURACPU         9.900.000,00        13.954.700.00       5.539.700.00      8.415.000,00  78,0  22,0            25,8  44,5      4
LARA MARIA TERESA                11.700.000,00        23.766.000,00    13.821.000.00         9.945.000,00  54,0  46,0           27,6  25,0    11
CLINICA MANTA C.A.               11.250.000,00        29.170.900,00    19.608.400,00        9.562.500.00  42,0  58.0            95,3  55,1      3
ENVASES DE HOJALATA S.A.         18.900.000,00        25.300.000,00       9.235.000.00    16.065.000,00  76,0  24,0             29,7  4 ,5      8
LA ANDALUZA CIA LTDA (LUI        14.400.000.00        33.692.290,00    21.452.290,00    12.240.000,00  47,0  53,0               48,7  33.6    23
POZO CHAMORRO GERMAN              7.650.000,00        11.210.890,00       4.708.390.00      6.502.500,00  75,0  25,0            91,5  96,7      8
CABRERA Z. EDUARDO                5.400.000,00         8.000.000,00       3.410.000.00      4.590.000,00  75,0  25,0            65,5  53.1      5
ELABORADOS NUTRITIVOS S.A         4.500.000,00        12.000.000,00       8.175.000.00      3.825.000,00  41,0  59,0            26,7  45,9      1
MOLINA PAZMINO WASHINGTON        14.400.000.00        24.905.000,00    12.665.000,00    12.240.000,00  63,0  37,0               36,1  31,      7



Cie/W/ CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
F o P I  AR                                                  ; FOPIN57 -
PAG          3
EcoNomiCrS CHARAcTERISTICS OF PROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN SIRF 2673-,c                        FECHA   08/10/92
DESDE 870101 HASTA 871231
a......s...us.ua.s..a...s*. .s...... .ss0s.   ....s-- ...                                    .... ....         ............... . .-  -*-- --- . . . . . ...................W. . . -
COMPANY                          AHOUNT                    T 0 T A L  -  P R 0 J E C T -  C o s T
APROVED        ----------------------------------------------------   X            X      X
TOTAL            LOCAL            FOREING         FORE. LOCAL CAP.  TASA  TASA EMPL.
RAW  uTIL. ECO.  FIN. GENER.
4ATE .
..... TO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~usa. sa...
ALIMENTOS ECUATORIANOS S.        t0.S00.000,00         15.000.000,00       5.820.000,00       9.180.000,00  36,0  o4.,0          56,3  56,0       5
MARCOVICI LONGAVER NICOLA        18.900.000,00         28.000.000,00      11.935.000,00    16.065.000,00  75,0  25,0             44,4  48,4    19
CABRERA SOLIS VICTOR MANU        11.699.640,00        40.000.000,00       30.055.306,00       9.944.694,00  32,0  68,0           25,5  45,7    2!
SANCHEZ JARRIN WILSON             1.191.105,00          1.557.000,00         544.560.75      1.012.439,25  85,0  15,0  S0,0  43,9  31,5           1
SEGOVIA VALLEJO LUIS             13.500.000,00         23.493.30O000      12.018.300,00    11.475.000,00  49,0  51,0             36,9  39,8    17
GUARDENAS CASTRO PABLO E.        11.970.000,00         23.080.400,00      12.905.900,00    10.174.500,00  57,0  43,0              38,8  29,1      4
8ADUY CEDENO RICARDO             18.000.000,00         29.829.000,00      14.529.000,00    15.300.000,00  67,0  33,0              59,6  57,7      6
MARATHON CASA DE DEPORTES        13.050.000,00         17.626.000,00       6.533.500,00    11.0Q2.500,00  60,0  40,0  30,0  20,9  45,2    12
REYES PARRA LUIS ALFONSO         10.350.000,00         14.580.000,00       5.782.500,00      8.797.500,00  78,0  22,0  73,0  53,Z  51,5           2
JARA RIOFRIO LUIS ALFREDO        15.750.000,00         23.573.600,00      10.186.100,00     13.387.500,00  74,0  26,0  90,0  69,4  57,1           4
AMAGUSA                          11.250.000,00         39.068.400,00      29.505.900,00      9.562.500,0C  26,0  74,0  79,2  4 1,2  32,8    41
CAMARONERA CUICOCHA S.A          18.900.000,00         39.787.500,00      23.722.500,00    16.065.000,00  52,0  .8,0              't,3  4o,1     21
DIAZ GAISOR GILBERTO                 517.230,00           677.000,00         237.354,50         439.645,50  84,C  16,0  80,0  17,6  32,0
GRANDA ARIAS ROBERTO BENI        11.700.000,00         19.159.205,00       9.214.205,00       9.945.000,00  67,0  33,0  85,0  39,4  46,2          5
ALMIDASA S.A.                    11.700.108,00         24.574.900,00      14.629.808,20       9.945.091,80  52,0  48,0           4 3,9  31,5    22
IZURIETA ELENA                   14.400.000,00         23.412.000,00      11.172.000,00    12.240.000,00  43,0  57,0 100,0  21,0  25,5    15
TEXTILES MIREYA                   4.500.000,00          6.006.350,00       2.191.350,00       3.325.0oo,oc         100,0  90,0  60,3  57,6        2
CAMPOZANO TROYA JOSE              9.934.200,00         15.177.250,00       6.733.180,00       8.444.070,00  72,0  28,0            20,4  35,7      3
RAMIREZ CEREZO JUSTO ALSE        13.077.000,00         18.162.500,00       7.047.050,00    11.115.450,00  80,0  20,0              25,3  56,2      6
HELSA S.A.                       14.400.000,00         24.055.000,00      11.815.000,00    12.240.000,00  66,0  34,0             27,0  48,5    113 
CASAMAR S.A.                     18.900.000,00         39.202.000,00      23.137.000,00    16.G65.000,00  53,0  4 ,0   3,0  31,  51,6    15
INDUSTRIA ECUATORIANA DE         13.050.000,00         18.500.000,00       7.407.500,00    11.092.500,00  78,0  22,0             24,4  5 ,5    10
BUSTAMANTE MEDINA SIMON          18.900.000,00         40.416.000,00      24.351.000,00    16.065.000.00  51,0  49,0             34,9  57,6       7
RAMOS B NELSON                   14.400.000,00         38.468.200,00      26.228.200,00    12.240.000,00  41,0  5Q,0             23,3  36,1    31
PRODUCTOS DE BA"8U S.A.          16.200.000,00         36.504.000,00      22.734.000,00    13.770.000,00  40,0  60,0  60,0  53,7  72 ,3    29
EISER FLORES KAROLY               8.964.000,00         12.000.000,00       4.330.600,00       7.619.400,0C  83,0  17,0           30,1  75,7       2
ARCOS CHAVEZ ANGEL LUZARG        14.400.000,00         29.201.000,00    16.961.000,00    12.240.000,00  53,0  47,0  80,0  32,5  30,2    15
T O T A L      1.372.909.196,49   2.472.524.281,00 1.305.551.463,99 1.166.972.817,01                                            1072
..Same ... mass  .        --     l" ...... N.M. ...... ...    ...  - gs.a......                                 ....



rFpt7v CORPORACION FlNANClERA NACIONAL
F O P I N A R                                                 FOPINS7 ^
PAG          1
ECONOMICIS CHARACTERISTICS OF PROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN SIRF 2673-EC                     FECHA : 06110/92
------------------------------------------------------------------__---
DESDE 880101 HASTA 881231
COMPANY                         AMOUNT                   T 0 T A L  -  P R 0 J1 E C T -  C 0 S T
APROVED        --------------------                                        S     X      X
TOTAL            LOCAL           FOREING         FORE. LOCAL CAP.  TASA  TASA EMPL.
RAW  UTIL. ECO.  FIN. GENER.
MATE
........~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o ... .. ...................    z
NOVAPIEL ClA. LTDA.             14.400.000,00        22.038.000,00       9.798.000,00    1Z.240.000,00  S9,0  41,0 100,0  72,6  37,5    35
PLASTICOS TRES JOTAS CIA.       14.400.000,00        28.000.000,00    15.760.000,00    12.240.000,00  57,0  43,0  75,0  17,8  35,1            6
CECAL CIA. LTDA.                18.900.000,00        29.000.000,00    12.935.000,00    16.065.000,00  72,0  28,0  5,0  42,2  30,9            9
CEPEDA ADAMES MARIO              1.227.330,00         1.604.460,00         561.229,50      1.043.230,50  84,C  16,C 100,0  43,9  31,5         1
INDUSTRIAS AL7A S.A. INDU       14.400.000,00        20.500.000,00       8.260.000,00    12.240.000,00  58,0  42,0  80,0  20,3  44,1
CALISTO CABEZAS DOLORES         13.050.000,00        31.829.900O00    20.737.400,00    11.C92.500,00  45,C  55,0  50,0  45,9  30,9    14
BAGUETTE PANES Y DULCES C       18.900.000,00        38.119.114,00    22.054.114,00    16.065.00G,00  48,0  52,0              20,7  51,4    22
ECUATORIANA GRAFICA (ECUA        4.500.000,00         6.000.000,00       2.175.000,00      3.825.OCO,00  53,0  4',0           32,0  63,0      S
MARISCOS ECUATORIAhOS C.A       18.900.000,00        30.000.000,00    13.935.000,00       16.065.000,00  4S,0  52,0           22,2  47,2    13
TRICESAL C. LTDA.               18.900.000,00        28.378.000,00    12.313.000,00    16.065.000,00  74,0  26,0  60,0  56,9  31,8    16
CONSERVAS DE FRUTAS              7.200.000,00         9.409.000,00       3.289.000,00      6.120.000,00  47,0  53,0           19,8  61,2      5
YEPEZ SAENZ GONZALO             13.500.000,00        38.300.300,00    26.825.300,00    11.475.000,OC  23,C  77,C  50,C  52,1  33,1    25
SALAZAR VILLACLS GERARDO        10.221.4SO,00        24.680.000,00    15.991.742,00        8.688.258,00  46,0  54,0  60,0  23,8  25,5         S
OPTITEK C.A.                    16.200.000,00        27.736.900,00    13.966.900,00    13.770.000,00  64,0  36,0  55,0  5S,9  67,5            7
VELEZ DUENAS GUSTAVO              4.500.000,00       20.273.000,00    16.448.000,00        3.825.000,00  24,0  76,0           51,3  45,4    33
INDUSTRIAL GLACIAL CIA LT        2.700.000,00         4.000.000,00       1.705.000,00      2.295.000,00         100,0  60,C  75,4  60,5       2
CONVERPAPEL S.A.                15.900.000,00        33.200.000,00      17.135.000,00    16.065.000,CC  56,0  44,0            37,3  65,1    10
MORENO LOPEZ ARTURO             13.500.000,00        34.070.000,00      22.595.000,00    11.475.000,00  44,0  56,C  50,0  4S,3  39,6          9
PAZMAY RAMOS GALO                5.220.000,00         6.837.680,00       2.400.680,00      4.437.000,00  62,0  38,0 100,0  21,9  42,4         2
MADERA$ DEL ECUADOR CIA.        10.327.500,00        15.300.000,00       6.521.625,00      8.778.375,00  47,0  53,0           57,8  49,0      6
INDECAUCHO CIA. LTDA.            4.500.000,00        10.000.000,00       6.175.000,00      3.S25.000,0C  50,0  iO,C.  90,0  t7,9  53,6        4   .
RIPALDA BONILLA LUIGI            4.500.000,00         8.647.000,00       4.822.000,00      3.825.COO,00  57,0  43,0  49,5  55,8  59,2
FAIDUTTI N. ALDO IL GELAT       12.150.00000         19.901.000,00       9.573.500,00    10.327.500,00  67,0  33,0            29,1  56,9
BERAIZ S.A.                     14.400.000,00        39.900.000,00    27.660.000,00    12.240.000,00  40,0  60,0              32,3  64,9    13
PARKER RENDON STANLEY           18.900.000,00        34.586.000,00      18.521.000,00    16.065.000,00  52,0  4S,             30,C  5S,o    18
CALDERON GUEVAR4 LUIS ADD       10.725.930,00        14.021.000,00       4.903.959,50      9.117.040,50  84,0  16,0  80,0  37,2  37,4         3
SANCHEZ CANAS ELOY ALBERT       12.105.000,00        15.822.663,00       5.533.413,00    10.289.250,00  85,0  15,0  83,3  54,1  55,3          4
INDUSTRIAS LICAUCHO CIA.         4.500.000,00         7.123.000,00       3.298.000,00      3.825.000,00         100,0  81,0  86,7  80,8
CONSTRUCTORA CABARO CIA.L       10.350.000,00        15.146.700,00       6.349.200,00      8.797.500,00  75,0  25,0  72,2  17,6  32,0    10
JERSEY ECUATORIANO CIA. L         5.400.000,00       12.342.000,00       7.752.000,00      4.590.000,OC         100,C  71,"  52,6  48,3
CERLANSA C.A.                   18.900.000,00        33.518.000,00    17.453.000,00    16.065.000,00  62,0  38,C              33,8  61,0    14
CAMARONERA BAIKAL S.A.          18.900.000,00        39.608.000,00    23.543.000,00    16.065.000,00  53,0  47,C              31,8  52,0    23
CERSA CIA.LTDA.                  9.900.000,00        13.000.000,00       4.585.000,00      8.415.000,00  84,0  16,0 100,0  31,5  66 4         7
ESCAMARLAN S.A.                 10.800.000,00        39.920.000,00    30.740.000,00        9.190.000,00  30,0  70,0  90,C  44,3  34,5    26
_________________    ------------------   ----------------   ----------------                                 -----
T 0 T A L        395.877.240,00       752.811.717,00   416.316.063,00   336.495.654,00                                        350
..oun                  ........... a.ttttS..    ... ............... .....  ...... atU   ...U.t  s-.



CF~UIU CORPORAC ION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
F O P I N A R                                               * FOPIN57 a
PAG          1
ECONOMYCIS C4ARACTERISTICS OF PROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN BIRF 2073-EC                      VECHA : 06/10/92
DESDE 890101 HASTA 891231
COMPANY                          AMOUNT                   T 0 T A L  -  P A 0 J E C T -  C 0 S T
APROVED        ----------------------------------------------------               X 
TOTAL            LOCAL            FOREING        FORE. LOCAL CAP.  TASA  TASA EMPL.
RAU  UTIL. ECO.  FIN. GENER.
MATE.
PODULOS Y MESONES S.A.           13.500.000,00        21.986.981,00    10.511.981,00       11.475.OOO,00  44,0  56,0  80,O  28,0  62,2          6
ARTINE CIA. LTDA.                 5.220.000,00         6.891.482,47       2.454.482,47      4.437.000,00         100,0  75,0  44,4  47,8        2
ACCESORIO Y SISTEMAS CIA.        18.900.000,00        27.259.700,00    11.194.700,00    16.065.000,00  58,0  42,0  60,0  31,3  t3,5             6
DIAFORMA CIA LTDA                11.250.000,00        24.440.200,00    14.877.700,00        9.562.500,0e         1000,  85,0  47,1  39,6        4
TEXTILES LEIVA VACA C.LTO         4.500.000,00         8.149.000,00       4.324.000,00      3.825.000,00  61,0  39.0  80,0  57,1  61,9          2
OPTICA INDUSTRIAL ECUATOR        18.900.000,00        28.000.000,00    11.935.000,00    16.065.000,00  75,0  25,0  70,0  66,7  31,2    10
MOSCOSO PEZO NICANOR             13.500.000,00        22.489.300,00    11.014.300.00    11.475.000,00  43,0  57,0  64,3  31,4  70,0    11
A8AD MOSCOSO CESAR AUGUST         3.600.000,00         7.124.400,00       4.064.400,00      3.060.000,00  56,0  44,0  64,2  34,0  77,5          7
NARANJO RAMIRO                   18.770.670,00        50.469.200,00    34.514.130,50    15.955.069,50            100,0  70,3  35,S  28,8    20
VACA RUILOVA GUSTAVO             15.750.000.00        30.300.000,00    16.912.500,00    13.387.500,00  48,0  52,0  80,0  57,3  5S,5    16
METAL MARKET DEL ECUADOR         10.800.000,00        30.782.000,00    21.602.000,00        9.180.000,00  38,0  62,0  56,0  57,1  45,3    23
SANTANDER $IAO HUGO               6.300.000,00        10.130.000,00       4.775.000,00      5.355.000,00         100,0  79,1  59.7  54,8        3
PINTO STELLA DE PAGET            15.000.000.00        27.000.000,00    11.700.000,00    15.300.000,00  74,0  26,0 100,0  78,3  76,7             9
FADEL S.A.                        9.000.000,00        12.350.000,00       4.700.000,00      7.650.000,00         100,0  70,0  52,8  57,1        4
HERNANDEZ CEVALLOS LUIS           7.110.000,00         9.354.000,00       3.310.500,00      6.043.500,00  46,0  54,0  75,0  46,3  48,9          2
INDUSTRIAS 8RETARA S.A.          18.900.000,00        48.590.000,00    32.525.000,00    16.065.000,00            100,0  50,0  31,6  57,7    16
PICO MAClAS AIDA AZUCENA         11.796.300,00        15.420.000,00       5.393.145,00    1C.02o.S55,0C  85,0  15,0 100,0  42,3  71,5           6
CACNIC.UANCO PEDRO MANUEL        12.585.600,00        16.452.200,00       5.754.440,00    10.697.760,00  84,0  16,0  82,5  34,2  35,5           2
IROKO CIA. LTDA.                 18.360.000,00        25.096.500,00       9.490.500,00    15.606.000,00  70,0  30,0  86,4  46,0  50,0           1
T 0 T A L        236.742.57C,00       422.284.963.47   221.053.778,97   201.231.1S4,50                                         15C
==.so"""S"sss  .....sa"w=w"ws   aXss ............. ......             .



