Docaomm Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICULL USE ONLY
AAf4p- ,;) Y-s
Report No. 5546-EC
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
March 3, 1986
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion.



ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Sucre (S/.)
October 1985             December 1985      February 1986
(Average Multiple Rates)      (Unified Rate)      (Unified rate)
USS1   = S/.82                 S/.97            = S1.110
S/.1   = US$0.01               US$0.01          = US$.009
5/.100 = USS12.19              US$10.30         = US$9.09
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations
BCE      Banco Central del Ecuador (Central Bank of Ecuador)
BEDE     Banco Ecuatoriano de Desarrollo (Ecuadorian Development Bank)
BEV      Banco Ecuatoriano de la Vivienda (Ecuadorian Housing Bank)
BN'F     Banco Nacional de Fomento (National Development Bank)
CD       Certificate of Deposit
CENAPIA  Centro Nacional para la Promocion de la Pequena Industria y
la Artesania (National Center for Promotion of SSEs and
Artisans)
CFN      Corporacion Financiera Nacional (National Finance Corporation)
DFC      Development Finance Company
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
FOPINAR  Fondo de Fomento para la Pequena Industria y la Artesania
(Development Fund for SSEs and Artisans)
FOPEX    Fondo de Promocion de Exportaciones (Export Development Fund)
INSOTEC  Instituto de Investigaciones Socio-Economicas y
Tecnologicas (Institute for Social, Economic, and Technological
Research)
MFF      Mecanismo de Fondos Financieros del BCE (BCE's Financial Fund)
MICEI    Ministerio de Industrias, Comercio e Integracion (Ministry of
Industry, Commerce and Integration)
SECAP    Servicio Ecuatoriano de Capacitacion Profesional (Ecuadorian
Professional Training Service)
SSEs     Small Scale Enterprises
TA       Technical Assistance



FOR OMCL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary ...........................          lv
I. THE DNDUSTRIAL SECTOR                               ...... ..            1
A. The Economic Setting                              ..         *        1
Background          ............................                  ...........  1
Outlook ....                 ........................................  I
B. Manufacturing and Small Scale Enterprise Sectors ............         3
Structure and Growth of Manufacturing          .       .           3
Structure and Characteristics of SSEs           .      .           3
Performance of SSEs and Capacity Utilization       .     .         3
Financing and Financial Performance of SSEs       .     .          4
Technical Assistance to SSEs               .         .             4
SSEs Growth Prospects .......................                      5
C. Industrial Policies .........................................         5
Features and Impact ......................................         5
Government Action                    ..                            5
II.THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ........................-                           7
A. Institutional Structure and Development .....................         7
Main Institutions ........................................         7
Developments .............................................         7
B. Interest Rate Policy and Resource Mobilization ..............         8
Performance ..............................................         8
Government Action ........................................         9
Further Action Required ..................................         9
Agreements ...............................................         9
C. Past 3ank Lending and Strategy ..............................        10
III. THE PROJECT ..................................................        12
A. Project Objectives and Arrangements .........................        12
This report was prepared by Javier Nogales and Ines Garcia-Thoumi, LCP II,
based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Ecuador in
December 1984. The mission comprised Messrs. J. Nogales, J. Culagovski
(LCPI1) and L. Toledo and R. Halvorson (Consultants).
This documnt hu a rnsticted distribution and may be u#d by recipients only in the performance
of their officiad duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank aulobriatiou



- ii -
BaLckground .................................... 12
Project Objectives.           .........          ......... ........   12
Project Descriptiono........................................s.....   12
B. Participating Institutions....0.000000 .... ...   ........ ..... *   13
Fondo de Fomento,para la Pequena Industria y Artesania
(FOPINAR)o .... .o.o.0.0.0.0 ..00........... ........ 0- .........   13
CFN and the Establishment of FOPINAR .........................-.   13
FOPINAR Plans for Strengthening Management and
Administration... ......     . ....... ....................  14
Lending Volumes .......  .o  *.*.o...e .... ...... ....-...... -.   15
FOPINAR Financial Conditiono.. o...........................       15
Collections and Portfolio Quality............................   16
Subproject Appraisal and Supervision Activitiesoo ........-  17
FOPINAR's Technical Assistance to SSEs......................   18
Participating Financial Intermediaries. ....o.................. ..   18
Financial Intermediaries ....o.-.o...... o....................... o-.-..   18
C. Project Costs and Financing Arrangements ................o-...   19
Project Costs.oo- ... ......             oooo ...... 0.. .........  19
Loan and Subsidiary Loan Terms .......... ............ ....  20
Subloans .................. oo.........................   21
Financial Agent .-.o-o.....o....o................... -.....-o... o.  22
Procurement ........................ . 22
Disbursements .......           o........o ............----...----.22
Bank Monitoring... .0.................                     ....   23
Accounting, Auditing and Reports .............................    23
D. Project Benefits and Risks ........ o..o....o.  -o     *.........   24
Riskso............   ...............  24
IV. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION...0..0..... .*000000.0. . 0000... ,-   25
Agreements ......  .... .. .........................  25
Recommendation... ... ......   o.........................    26
List of Annexes
Annex 1
- Geographic Distribution of FOPINAR Disbursements ....-..0.  27
Annex 2
- Average Balance Sheet of Survered SSEs........ ........ o.....   28
Annex 3
- The Sucretization Program ..........            ..............._   29
Annex 4
- Distortions on Debt Servicing of Long-Term Loan due to
High Inflation                             ....000000 000 000000000 00  30



- iii -
Annex 5
- FOPINAR's Use of Technical Assistance....................... *     33
Annex 6
Table 1- FOPINAR's Staff and Time Distribution.................              34
Table 2- FOPINAR's Staff Personnel Tasks Time Distribution..........   35
Table 3- FOPINAR: Time Utilization per Task and Function - Second
Semester of 1984 ........... .....0*..** ....    36
FOPINAR: Projected Time Utilization for Second Semester of
lg86~~~~~~~~~.....     36
Table 4- FOPINAR's Operational Resources Requirements .37
Annex 7
- Chart 1 - FOPINAR: '84 Staff Time Distribution...                  39
'86 Staff Time Distribution.............   39
Chart 2 - FOPINAR:  Staff Distribution....................    40
Annex 8
- FOPINAR: Real Disbursements Growth (Z).....................   41
ECUADOR: Inflation Rate (% p.a.)..........................   41
Annex 9
- FOPINAR: Financial Projections.............................   42
Annex 10
- General Terms of Reference for Competitiveness Study....y..   50
Annex 11
- Estimated Schedule of Disbursements Under the Proposed Loan   51
Annex 12
- Bank Monitoring of Project Implementation..................   52
Annex 13
- Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File .....   53
Map of Ecuador



- iv -
EUA
THImD SMALL-SCALE ETERPM SE CREDIT PROJECT
WAN AND PROJECT SUDm
Borrower:           Republic of Ecuador
Beneficiaries:      Private Small-Scale Enterprises (SSEs) involved in manu-
facturing, agro-industry, fisheries, tourism, and indus-
try-related services and marketing activities.
AMount:             US$30 million equivalent.
Terns:              Repayable over 17 years on a fixed amortization scbedule,
including 4 years of grace, at the Bank's standard varia-
ble interest rate and charges.
Relenting Terms:    The Borrower, through the Central Bank (BCE) as its
agent, would onlend the proposed loan in sucres to CFN,
on the same terms as the Bank's loan, plus BCE's agency
fee of one eighth of one percent p.a. and a variable
foreign exchange risk fee. CFN would onlend about
USS29.8 million equivalent of the loan proceeds to SSEs
through qualified financial intermediaries at variable
positive real interest rates, consistent with criteria
agreed with the Bank. CFN would receive a fee of 2.5%
p.a. plus a 12 one-time commitment fee for its subloans.
Financial intermediaries would receive a fee of 4-5%
p.a., depending on the term of the subloans. Variations
in the interest rates charged to beneficiaries would
result in variations in the foreign exchange risk fee
paid to the Borrower through BCE. The Borrower would
assume the foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan.
Project
Description:        The objective of the project would be to support
employment-intensive and efficient industrial deve-
lopment, and to encourage financial and industrial sector
policy reforms. It would continue Bank support to the
Government of Ecuador to develop further the SSE sector.
To achieve these objectives, resources totaling US$58.6
million from the Bank, CFN, and financial intermediaries
would be made available to SSEs to finance fixed assets,
permanent working capital, and technical assistance
requirements. CFN would continue to manage a program of
technical assistance, and would use up to USSO.2 million
from the proposed loan to carry out studies related to
the economics and technical assistance needs of the SSE
sector.



-v -
Benefita:            The project would promote SSE development at the regional
level. It would help create about 18,000 new jobs,
principally outside the major urban centers of Quito and
Guayaquil. Further benefits would result from the asso-
ciated dialogue with the Government on resource mobiliza-
tion, interest rates, and industrial policy issues.
Risks:               Possible changes in FOPINAR's management could pose some
future risks to efficient project execution. Assurances
have, therefore, been obtained under the project that
FOPINAR would continue to be managed soundly. Also,
depending on the rate of economic recovery in Ecuador and
the potential negative short-term impact of import
liberalization and interest rate reforms, demand for pro-
ject resources could slacken. However, even if loan dis-
bursements slowed somewhat, the project would remain
viable.
Estilmted Costs:                                       Local. Foreig    Total
-    (US$ million)
Investment Projects                        51.6      42.2      93.8
Technical Assistance to FOPINAR             0.0       0.2       0.2
Total Project Costs  1/                    51.6      42.4      94.0
Finncing Plan:
Bank                                        -        30.0      30.0
Financial Intermediaries                    5.3       -         5.3
SSE Beneficiaries                          28.0       7.2      35.2
CFN (through FOPINAR)                      18.3       5.2      23.5
Total                                     51.6      42.4      94.0
I/ The tax content of the project would be approximately US$8.5 million
(9%).



- 'VI -
Estluated
DIubaree eAts:
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
US$ millions by Bank Fiscal Year
Annual               0.6    4.8    7.5    7.8    5.1    3.0    1.2
Cumulative           0.6    5.4   12.9   20.7   25.8   28.8   30.0
Rate of Keturn:      The minimum rate for subprojects would be 122.



I. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. The Economic Setting _/
Background
1.01      Since the 1960s, the Ecuadorian economy has changed from a
predominantly agricultural to a predominantly urban society. From 1972 to
1980, the transformation of the economy occurred under the stimulus of
growing petroleum exports and, to a lesser extent, the growth of the
industrial sector. In that period, real GDP grew at an average rate of about
5% p.s. and per capita income in 1983 prices (Atlas Methodology) rose from
US$1,190 to US$1,430.
1.02      In 1981, however, the Ecuadorian economy's fragility became evident
when the terms of trade for Ecuador deteriorated for the first time since
1974. GDP growth slowed down considerably to 3.9%, private investments
declined by 11.6% and signs of capital flight appeared. GDP growth
slowed further to 1.8% in 1982 and turned negative to -3.3% in 1983.
Investment continued to decline and unemployment to accelerate. By the end
of 1983 Ecuador was facing, as most Latin American countries, one of the
worst economic contractions since the Great Depression. Nevertheless,
Ecuador complied with an IMF-supported adjustment program and avoided
possibly an even worse income drop.
1.03      In 1984, Ecuador started to emerge from the recession mainly as a
result of increased oil exports and the recovery of agricultural production,
which had decreased by 14% the previous year as a result of severe floods.
Other sectors, however, still faced constraints: a contracted international
demand for non-oil exports; reduced availability of imported raw materials;
low local demand for manufactured goods; minimal new foreign lending; and
depressed prices for oil, Ecuador's main export. Nevertheless, in 1984, real
GDP increased by 3.4%, reversing -the negative trend of the three preceding
years.
outlook
1.04      The present Administration which took office in August 1984, is the
second one to be democratically elected after nearly a decade of military
rule. The Government's economic philosophy essentially supports the market
as an efficient resource allocation mechanism, with minimal Government inter-
vention in economic affairs. It sees the longer-run development of Ecuador
supported by vigorous, export-oriented agricultural and industrial growth,
and recognizes the strategic importance of relative prices, including
1/   This section is based on the Report:   Ecuador:  An Agenda for Recovery
and Sustained Growth  - a World Bank Country Study, Report No. 5094-EC
of October 5, 1984.



- 2 -
exchange and interest rates and import tariffs. The Government is also com-
mitted to strengthening private sector development, curtailing the role of
public investment in activities which could be privatized, encouraging
foreign investment, and improving the efficiency of public investment and
operations.
1.05      Since coming to office, the Administration has taken a number of
important and politically difficult corrective measures: it has devalued the
sucre again and unified the multiple exchange rate markets; it raised
domestic petroleum products prices; it improved the interest rate structure;
it successfully obtained a multi-year rescheduling of its external debt; it
took steps to liberalize trade; and it moved to free prices in the
agricultural sector. It also mounted a campaign to attract foreign
investment and subscribed to several investment guarantee schemes, including
MIGA. These are important measures in the right direction; they should
encourage more efficient utilization of resources and stimulate exports,
agricultural production and domestic savings and encourage foreign
investment.
1.06      Because of the devaluations of the sucre in the past two years,
which have raised the price of oil in sucre terms, oil exports amounted to 18
percent of GDP in 1985. Virtually all oil income accrues to the public
sector. DesPite the recent sharp drop in oil prices, the oil sector will
continue to be essential to the economy. Adjustment to the loss of income
(estimated to be close to half a billion dollars in 1986) will require faster
shifts to non-oil sources of exports and fiscal revenues over the medium
term. However, in the short run, oil still represents over half of current
exports. Restricted fiscal revenues will require tightening of already
frugal fiscal policies. An adequate flow of resources to the private sector
from both domestic and foreign sources will be essential to support further
recovery from the recent recession. Indeed, a public sector surplus may well
be required to ensure that the private sector can expand its activities.
This delicate balance between public and private sector needs underscores the
importance of good public sector management. The Bank's recent public
investment review found Ecuador's ongoing program generally a sound one, but
recommended that petroleum exploration and production be accelerated, and
that no sizable new projects be begun for a few years; an update of the
program reflecting reduced foreign exchange earnings and fiscal revenues will
be needed.
1.07      Ecuador will almost surely continue facing a shortage of foreign
exchange in the next few years, given recent oil price declines. The Bank's
most recent economic projections were made on a higher oil price expectation,
and were consistent with both the Government's and the IMF's programs. The
Government, along with both the Bank and the IMF, is now reviewing Ecuador's
revised prospects. In view of the far-reaching economic effects of the most
recent drop in oil prices, both the Bank and the IMF have scheduled economic
missions to Ecuador for February-March 1986,to undertake further analysis.
Nevertheless, it is already clear that Ecuador must likely quicken and deepen
its adjustment program, while marshalling further external funds to assist
its response to the oil price drops. Hence, the Government, the Bank, and
the IMF are discussing with Ecuador's commercial creditors the possibility of
further financing. Because of Ecuador's determined efforts to adjust its
economy--and its creditors' positive responses so far --we believe Ecuador
remains creditworthy for Bank lending.



- 3 -
B. Manufacturing and Small Scale Enterprise Sectors
1.08      Structure and Growth of Manufacturing.  Manufacturing remains at an
earl, stage of development. Activities such as food processing, textiles and
wood processing still account for about three-quarters of manufacturing value
added. Most production is sold in the domestic market and is highly
dependent upon imported inputs. The sector has contributed about 18% of GDP
in recent years, and in 1983 employed about 320,000 workers (11% of the work
force). In line with overall rapid economic expansion, manufacturing growth
averaged 9.5% p.a. in real terms between 1972-1982. However, with the
arrival of economic recession, real growth in manufacturing value added
decreased by 1.9% in 1983 and by about 2% in 1984. Durlng 1985, economic
growth resumed, led by increases in oil and agricultural output, and
manufacturing grew by an estimated 2.5%. In the future, best prospects will
likely be for those industries wiLh low indebtedness, that are based largely
on local inputs, and that serve export markets, or local markets for basic
consumer items. Small Scale Enterprises (SSEs) generally incorporate several
of these characteristics.
1.09      Structure and Characteristics of SSEs.  SSEs are defined as firms
engaged in industry, agro-industry, fishing, tourism, and related Industrial
services and marketing activities, with fixed assets of less than USS350,000
equivalent, excluding land and buildings. As official statistics on SSEs
provide information only on the general structure and characteristics of the
SSE sector, a survey of 101 SSEs was carried out by the Bank's appralsal
mission. This survey provides further insight into the situation and
performance of SSEs, although it could be expected that SSEs that have
recently carried out investment projects, as is the case for the surveyed
SSEs, would show a healthier growLh pattern than the average SSE. Overall,
SSEs have shown great potential for job creation. In 1980, some 8,000 small
firms and 200,000 artisans accounted for 12% of manufacturing output and
employed about 40% cf total manufacturing labor. Moreover, the survey
revealed that in 1982-84, SSEs created employment at an average cost per job
of US$1,400--a fraction of the industrial sector average. SSEs are widely
distributed geographically (Annex 1), but are concentrated in the food, wood
processing, leather, garment, and light metalworking subsectors, where
activities are mostly labor intensive and generally have not required
large-scale production. They also utilize intermediate products that are
less costly and have a higher local content than the rest of industry. The
main markets of SSEs are local urban centers. Strong market segmentation
prevails, owing to high transport costs, underdeveloped commercial
infrastructure, and cultural differences among the country's various
geographical areas. This market segmentation has prevented greater
competition among SSEs. Better marketing infrastructure and information
would thus promote efficiency among SSEs, and would be supported under the
proposed loan.
1.10      Performance of SSEs and Capacity Uitilization.  Despite the recent
economic recession, SSEs have enjoyed satisfactory growth, mainly because of
their generally low foreign indebtedness and low reliance on imported
inputs. The survey of SSEs reveals that in 1983 and 1984 annual real growth
rates averaged 13% for sales revenues, 17% for profits, 15% for employment,



9.5% for total assets, and 17X for equity, all satisfactory. Despite this
positive record, however, idle capacity has remained high, averaging about
42X in mid-1984. This excess capacity arose mainly from (i) scarcity of
credit, especially for working capital; (ii) difficulty in obtaining imported
inputs; and (iii) the high market segmentation. To encourage higher capacity
utilization, greater support to SSEs is required through provision of ti)
incentives (including long-terz1 financing at reasonable terms) to purchase
existing idle capacity for more productive uses; (ii) more timely and
adequate infomaztion to SSEs on capacity utilization to improve the basis for
investment decisions; and (iii) sufficient working capital financing to allow
more intensive use of fixed assets. Such support would be provided under the
proposed prnject.
1.11      Financing and Financial Performance of SSEs.  In the past, SSEs
have faced considerable difficulties in gaining access to commercial
financing. They have had to rely until recently almost entirely on the
official credit lines offered by the National Development Bank (Banco
Nacional de Fomento - BNF) and by commercial banks using a Central Bank
rediscount facility (Fondos Financieros) (para. 2.03). These credits carry a
maximum maturity of two years and require SSEs to run the risk that
short-term debt used to finance fixed assets may not be rolled over. The
only longer term credit available for SSEs is offered by the National Finance
Corporation (Corporacion Financiera Nacional - CFN) through its Development
Fund for Small Scale Enterprises and Artisans (Fondo de Fomento para la
Pequena Industria y la Artesania - FOPINAR) established in 19BO with Bank
support (para. 3.06). Owing to inflation, total official credit received by
SSEs decreased by 29% in real terms between 1981-1983. This reduction has
prevented more adequate replacement of obsolete equipment and more effective
use of installed capacity. Indications are, however, that when adequate
financial support is provided, SSEs can achieve satisfactory growth and
maintain financial health. The survey showed an average debt-to-equity ratio
of 1.1:1 and liquidity (current ratio) of 1.4:1, both satisfactory. Annex 2
summarizes Lhe average financial structure shown by the surveyed SSEs.
1.12      Technical Assistance to SSEs.  The main organizations providing
technical assistance (TA) to SSEs are the provincial Small Industrialists'
Associations, coordinated by a Federation in Quito; the Ecuadorian
Professional Training Service (Servicio Ecuatoriano de Capacitacion
Profesional - SECAP) under the Ministry of Labor; and the National Center for
Promotion of Small Scale Industry and Artisans (Centro Nacional para la
Promocion de la Pequena Industria y la Artesania - CENAPIA) established by
the Ministry of Industry Commerce and Integration (MICEI) to support firms
registered under the SSE and Artisan Incentive Laws. Generally, efforts by
these organizations to deliver technical assistance to SSEs have been
scattered and uncoordinated. Hence, since 1981, FOPINAR has identified
various prospective sources of professional assistance and sought their
cooperation in sponsoring TA programs. As a result, commercial banks,
technical sales representatives and materials suppliers have been mobilized
to advise SSEs, and FOPINAR's offices have acquired increasing imporLance as
points of design and coordination of TA activities from several sources.
Two-thirds of FOPINAR clients have received TA over the past two years,
mainly from SECAP and private consultants or suppliers, and mainly in the



fields of technology and know-how, and accounting and finance. Given the
survey's indication of a continuing strong demand for TA, FOPINAR plans to
provide further TA support to SSEs.
1.13      SSEs Growth Prospects.  Prospec-ts for SSEs look promising over the
medium term. First, overall prospects for the Ecuadorian economy are
positive, mainly due to good prospects for increased oil production and
better economic policies. Second, sales growth prospects for SSEs seem
favorable owing to their emphasis on producing items unlikely to be subject
to external competition, such as construction materials and furniture,
processed foods, and printing industry items. Such goods are protected by
high transport costs, low cost raw materials, or custom production. Finally,
while continued adjustment of the Ecuadorian economy would put pressure on
some SSEs in terms of stronger competition, both in price and quality, the
solid capital structure and liquidity evident among SSEs should enable them
to weather adverse conditions.
C. Industrial Policies
1.14      Features and Impact.  Industrial policies tariff protection for
domestic production, liberal exoneration of taxes and import duties for use
of imported capital and raw materials, and subsidized credit-have not
significantly differentiated in intent between SSEs and larger firms. In
practice, however, they might have discriminated against SSEs, which
generally have (i) had more limited access to subsidized credit; (ii)
demonstrated relatively low capital intensity; and Ciii) purchased their
inputs mostly in the domestic market, unaffected by benefits from import duty
exonerations. Only one-fourth of all SSEs have registered for benefits under
the Industrial Incentive Law and only about IOZ of registered SSEs actually
used available benefits in 1983.
1.15      Much of the current structure and vulnerability of the
manufacturing sector is a consequence of past policies which:
Ci)  favored import substitution over exports, through high
tariffs on final goods, low tariffs for capital goods and
inputs, and widespread use of non-tariff import
restrictions;
(ii)  provided tax and tariff exonerations for machinery imports
and subsidized credit for investment in fixed capital; and
(iii)  permitted a concentration of production, both geographically
and in terms of number of firms, through a discretionary
project-by-project application of incentives.
1.16      Government Action.   The Administration has begun formulating a new
industrial development strategy aimed at fostering efficient import
substitution, export expansion, and more intensive use of domestic
resources. Accordlngly, important policy decisions have been taken in the
areas of industrial and trade policies. First, unification of the exchange



-6-
rate represents a major step in eliminating basic distortions hindering a
healthier industrial sector. The adjustment and maintenance of the exchange
rate at a realistic real level-as agreed by the Government with the
IHF-provides the basis for a restructuring of the other instruments of
protection for domestic production as well as for export promotion. Second,
new regulations for the Industrial Incentive Law were issued in January 1985
to simplify and streamline industrial incentives, mainly through (i) reducing
income tax exonerations, especially for sectors with widespread idle
capacity, (ii) granting tax benefits based on export performance, and (iii)
establishing time limitations on tariff exonerations for raw material
imports. These reforms complement the measure adopted in March 1983, by
which tariff exonerations on capital goods were reduced by 35%. Third, the
Government has begun to replace quantitative restrictions by tariffs. The
first step was completed in March 1985, by eliminating import prohibitions
that had been introduced in 1982, which in value amounted to about 16% of
1981 total imports. Another step was taken in January 1986, when about 20Z
of remaining import prohibitions were replaced by tariffs. Furthermore, the
Government has begun to reduce the number of industrial inputs subject to
prior authorization for import. Finally, in an initial attempt to lessen
discrimination against exports within different manufacturing activities, a
revised import tariff structure was introduced in January 1986. ImPort
tariff peaks and tariff dispersion have been reduced so that over 75% of
imported commodities now have tariffs of 70% or less.



-7-
II. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. Institutional Structure and Development
2.01      Main Institutions.  The main institutions in Ecuador's financial
system are the Central Bank (BCE), 32 private commercial banks with about 285
branches; 3 state banks-the National Development Bank (BNF), the Ecuadorian
Housing Bank (BEV), and the Ecuadorian Development Bank (BEDE)-and 13
finance corporations, including the public National Finance Corporation
(CFN). There are also 11 savings and loans associations; more than 25
insurance companies; various currency exchange offices and securities markets
in Guayaquil and Quito. The Social Security Institute (IESS) is also a major
depository for financial savings. As a group, commercial banks domicate
Ecuador's financial system, and their outstanding loan portfolio represents
75% of total lending to non-bank borrowers.
2.02      Policy-making agencies are the Monetary Board, BCE, and the
Superintendency of Banks. The Monetary Board sets exchange rates, interest
rates, and other financial policies which are implemented by BCE and the
Superintendency of Banks. BCE also provides credit to financial
intermediaries, including special discount credit lines (para. 2.03). The
Superintendency of Banks supervises and audits financial intermediaries and
publishes statistical information on the banking system.
2.03      Principal vehicles for BCE's indirect lending have been the
Financing Funds (Fondos Financieros), which were established in 1973 to
develop and strengthen specific activities that the Government wished to
encourage. There are currently five Funds (three financed by BCE funds, one
by Treasury budget funds, and one by foreign loans channeled by BCE),
including one that provides medium-term loans to SSEs. The Funds finan.ed by
domestic resources grant mostly short-term credit with a maximum term of two
years, and interest rates to final borrowers that are about the lowest
available.
2.04      Developments.  The financial system grew rapidly in the 1970s,
mainly because bank ownership granted access to profitable BCE credit lines
and because guarantees for foreign loans to the private sector grew rapidly
and appeared profitable. Additionally, negative real interest rates charged
to final borrowers, and attractive margins and commissions provided to
intermediaries stimulated lending growth. However, such situation provided
little incentive for financial institutions to mobilize domestic resources on
their own, and they became increasingly dependent on BCE credits and foreign
borrowings for resources. The structurally flawed financial system which
thus arose became all the more fragile because easy granting of bank licenses
led to the establishment of many small, inefflcient and undercapitaliz,ed
banks. Between 1973 and 1984 the number of private banks increased from 21
to 32 and finance companies from 2 to 13. The system suffered grave
liquidity problems beginning in 1983 as foreign resources dwindled and
economic conditions deteriorated. These factors, combined with devaluation
of the sucre, d.minished the ability of borrowers to meet dollar-denominated



-8-
obligations guaranteed by the banks. To help financial intermediaries, the
Government carried out a Sucretization- program (Annex 3) under which BCE
assumed foreign debts and participating institutions became obligated to
repay BCE in sucres over a period of up to seven years. While this program
solved the immediate liquidity crisis, one of its legacies was that BCE
credit in 1983 represented about 35% of the commercial banks', and up to 60%
of finance companies' portfolio.
B. Interest Rate Policy and Resource Mobilization
2.05      Performance.  Official interest rates are established periodically
by the Monetary Board. Judged by international standards, Ecuador has been
quite unsuccessful in mobilizing domestic financial resources. A comparison
for 1980 of a standard measure of financial deepening (the ratio of money
supply (M3) to GDP) for six Latin American countries and Nigeria, an OPEC
nation, revealed that only one country exhibited less financial deepening
than Ecuador (Table 1 below).
TABLE 1
Indicators of Financial Development in
Selected Latin American Countries
December 1980
ECUADOR COLOMBIA MEXICO NIGERIA PARAGUAY   PERU   VENEZUELA
M3/GDP (Z) -/       19.3    30.9    28.2    33.8    21.1    18.4 c/    44.6 d/
Avg.Inf.,CPI b/
1975-80 (%)        12.6    24.3    21.2    16.9    14.7    50.5         11.1
Per Capita GNP
(US$)             1,100   1,260   1,980      870   1,410   1,080       3,910
Sources: IMF, International Financial Statistics; IBRD, 1983 Atlas; for
Ecuador, BCE; for Peru, Banco Central de Reserva, Cuentas
Financieras del Peru: 1970-80.
a/ GDP for 1980 and 1981 were averaged geometrically to obtain an
end-of-year estimate; M3 = M2 + deposit type liabilities of other
financial intermediaries.
b/ Average annual consumer price index, average annual compound inflation
rate 1975-80.
c/ Includes foreign currency deposits equal to 5.7% of GDP.
Tiy Excludes mortgage banks.
2.06      The poor past performance in resource mobilization is attributable
mostly to the reluctance of prior Governments to adjust interest rates in



-9-
response to changes in expected inflation. Until 1981, the authorities main-
tained interest rates at levels below inflation. Thus, Ecuadorians increas-
ingly chose more attractive savings alternatives (foreign financial assets or
unregulated extra-bank deposits) over deposits within the Ecuadorian finan-
cial system. Since 1981, official interest rates on savings and time
deposits have been raised periodically, but, until recently, remained below
domestic inflation. As a result, there was little improvement in private
domestic resource mobilization. Also, high and variable rates of inflation
and fixed interest rates made it impossible for Ecuadorian financial
institutirons to make long-term loans without assuming unreasonable risks.
2.07      Government Action.  To spur domestic resource mobilization, at the
end of 1984 the Government raised official interest rates and introduced
large denomination (over one million sucres) Certificates of Deposit (CDs)
bearing unregulated interest rates. This brought official deposit rates to
about 20-23% p.a. and effective lending rates to about 25-26Z for loans up to
2 years and 26% p.a. for loans over 2 years. CD rates are about 26% p.a. on
twelve-month deposits; funds mobilized through such CD's are onlent for a
similar term at about 30% p.a. These measures brought official interest
rates to positive levels in real terms (inflation was about 14% p.a. for the
six months ending December 1985). Moreover, in late August 1985 the
Government issued new legislation to allow long-term financial instruments to
carry variable rates to be adjusted at frequencies determined by the Monetary
Board, and amended the laws governing banks and financieras and the Monetary
Law with the purpose of strengthening the financial condition of Ecuadorian
financial institutions.
2.08      Future Action Required.  The changes in interest rates have begun
to have a salutary effect on domestic resource mobilization; during 1985 real
deposits in commercial banks rose over 25%, and savings deposits and CDs more
than doubled, in real terms. Furthermore, the introduction of variable
Interest rates should greatly facilitate long-term lending. However, future
action will be needed to allow more automatic adjustment of interest rate
levels, especially to reflect changes in the rate of inflation, which
oscillated in recent years between 14% and 62% p.a. Moreover, high nominal
interest rates present a problem for long-term loans.  Traditional repayment
methods for such loans result in debt service payments which are concentrated
In real terms in the earlier years, imposing liquidity strains on borrowers
(Annex 4).  During the dialogue on financial policies, the Bank explored the
possibility of introducing financial instruments which would provide for
partial capitalization of interest. However, the Government believes that
such action would be difficult to administer and may be less urgent as its
anti-inflation program takes effect.
2.09      Agreements.  The Government has agreed to maintain interest rates
on all loans to the industrial sector, with maturity exceeding two years, at
levels which are positive in real terms, and which, after July 1, 1987, are
also adequate relative to deposit rates, as measured by criteria agreed with
the Bank. The Government would review with the Bank the adequacy of the
level of lending interest rates at least semi-annually beginning October 1,



- 10 -
1986. It would also review semi-annually with the Bank the adequacy of
domestic financial resource mobilization, based as well on criteria agreed
with the Bank. The adequacy of spreads would also be reviewed on these
occasions. If, during any of these reviews after July 1, 1987, the levels of
lending interest rates, spreads, or domestic financial resource mobilization
were inadequate and the Government and the Bank were unable to agree on
remedies for this, then the Bank would have the right to withhold financing
of fresh subloan commitments under the proposed loan.
C. Past Bank Lending and Strategy
2.10      The proposed loan represents the third Bank operation for SSE
development in Ecuador. The Bank has also extended five DFC loans to Ecuador
totaling US$155 million, net of cancellations. The first four DFC loans
(Loan 721-EC approved December 15, 1970; Loan 930-EC approved June 26, 1973;
Loan 1359-EC approved December 28, 1976; and Loan 1731-EC approved June 19,
1979) are completed. The fifth loan (2096-EC), signed April 22, 1982, is
fully committed and 92% disbursed. A Completion Report has recently been
issued for the third and fourth DFC projects. Its main findings showed that
by September 1983, devaluation, recession, reduced consumer demand and public
sector investment, all reduced industry's ability to meet debt service
payments on projects financed by DFCs. The financial statements of DFCs
therefore reflected sharply declining revenues and income. The
profitability, liquidity, and financial structures of DFCs weakened as
portfolio problems mounted. Their debt/equity ratios rose from under 10 to 1
in 1982 to between 15 to 1 and 25 to 1 for the five major private DFCs by end
1983. The report, therefore, recommended a series of actions to strengthen
DFCs, including increasing equity and improving portfolio collection. These
are being dealt with under the proposed Industrial Finance Project.
2.11     Regarding SSE loans, the first Bank loan (No. 1879-EC) for USS20
million was approved in June 1980. This loan helped establish FOPINAR and
was committed and disbursed one-and-a-half years earlier than expected. A
second Bank SSE operation (Loan No. 2221-EC) for USS40 million was approved
in December 1982. *The loan helped FOPINAR to consolidate institutionally and
expand its operations. Execution of the project has proceeded smoothly and
the loan was 95Z committed by end-1985. While a performance audit report has
not yet been prepared, the results of the Bank's survey of SSEs discussed in
para. 1.09 indicate that substantial benefits have been achieved under these
two projects. The average scale of borrowers and FOPINAR subloans have
progressively declined and an increasing share of lending has been directed
to SSEs in secondary cities and rural areas, outside the main urban centers
of Quito and Guayaquil.
2.12      In line with Government objectives, Bank strategy for the
industrial sector is to support employment-intensive and export-generating
industries, as well as those making efficient use of local resources.
The proposed project is designed to further the Government's objectives in
the industrial sector, and to support progress on the broader aspects of Bank
strategy, aimed at: (i) encouraging resource mobilization and more efficient



- 11 -
resource allocation through financial sector reforms; and (ii) improving the
industrial and trade policy framework to encourage more efficient industrial
production.



- 12 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Arrangements
Background
3.01      Given the positive results obtained under the prior two SSE
projects -- confirmed by the overall positive results yielded by the survey
car;lc4 out by the appraisal mission (para. 1.10) - the Government requested
the Bank to process a third operation in time to be effective by early 1986.
The projecL was identified by the Bank in October 1984 and was prepared by
FOPINAR with the help of Bank staff. It was appraised in December 1984 and
negotiated in August 1985 and January 1986.
Project Objectives
3.02      The pcoposed Third Small SSE Credit Project would continue with the
efforts started by the Bank and the Government under the prior two SSE
projects. Its objectives would be to: (a) relieve the scarcity of term
financing on reasonable terms to strengthen, expand, diversify, and modernize
SSEs; (b) provide medium-term financing for permanent working capital to help
reduce current idle capacity in the SSE sector; and (c) continue expanding
the institutional capability of FOPINAR, which has satisfactorily carried out
two-tier lending operations to SSEs under the prior two Bank SSE projects.
Project Description
3.03      Under the proposed project, medium-and long-term Cup to 10 years)
loans to SSEs would be provided for the financing of:
(a)  fixed assets (equipment, machinery,'! and civil works);
(b) permanent working capital (the cost of inventories of raw
materials, goods in process, and finished goods, as well as
accounts receivable,2/ required to increase the level of SSEs
output on a permanent basis); and
(c) technical assistance required by SSEs to prepare or implement
subprojects and to improve their overall productivity.
I/   Financing of properly reconditioned equipment and used equipment, whose
value, condition, efficiency and useful life would be certified by
qualified independent experts, would be allowed under the loan (para.
1.10).
2/   However, for working capital subloans, Bank funds could only be used to
finance inventories. FOPINAR would use its own funds to finance
accounts receivable.



- 13 -
Beneficiaries would be private SSEs involved in manufacturing, agro-industry,
fishery, tourism, and related industrial services and marketing activities,
with less than: (a) US$350,000 of fixed assets, excluding land, buildings,
and the subprojects to be financed; and (b) US$750,000 of total assets,
including land, buildings, and the subprojects to be financed. This would
correspond normally to firms having less than 25-30 employees before
implementing the subprojects3/. A total of 2,100 subprojects are expected
to be financed under the project with an average investment of US$45,000.
Also, technical assistance financing up to US$200,000 equivalent would be
included in the Project, to support FOPINAR's ability to carry ouL sectoral
studies (para. 3.14) and purchase of computing equipment to improve FOPINAR's
data management handling capabilities (Annex 5).
B.   Participating Institutions
3.04      Under the proposed project, FOPINAR would continue to make loans as
a second-tier institution through the network of qualifying financial
intermediaries. Under the prior two projects, a total of 36 financial
intermediaries (24 commercial banks, 11 DFCs, and BNF) have signed
participation agreements with FOPINAR. Most of them are expected to continue
operating under the proposed operation provided they comply with some
additional requirements (para. 3.12) to further protect FOPINAR's financial
condition.
Fondo de Fomento Para la Pequena Industria y Artesania (FOPINAR)
3.05      CFN and the Establishment of FOPINAR.  Under the First Small Scale
Enterprise Credit Project, FOPINAR was established within the Corporacion
Financiera Nacional (CFN) as a permanent second tier financial institution
with its own staff, financial resources and separate accounts. Established
in 1960, CFN is the oldest and largest Financiera in Ecuador and the major
provider of medium- and long-term credit to the industrial sector. CFN is
wholly Government-owned. Although its policies and operations must be in
accordance with the development plans of the Government, CFN is relatively
autonomous in its day-to-day operations. At the end of 1984 CFN's total
assets amounted to SI. 20.0 billion, with equity of SI. 3.3 billion. The
latest available audited financial statements (1983) show that CFN's
financial condition had deteriorated mainly due to: (i) low profitability of
its equity investments in state enterprises (e.g., sugar, cement); (ii)
increased non-earning assets due to the effect of the sucretization program
(Annex 3); (iii) delays in Government reimbursements to CFN on account of
foreign exchange losses agreed to be assumed by the Government; and (iv) the
3/   Under the prior two projects, the definition under (a) above was
utilized and will still be used for continuity purposes. However, as
the objective of FOPINAR is not to finance very large projects, even for
enterprises which were initially small, the second limit under (b) above
will be added under the proposed operation.



- 14 -
overall deterioration of its non-FOPINAR industrial loan portfolio
principally due to the economic recession. CFN's profitability in 1984
amounted only to 0.52 on average earning assets, equivalent to 3Z on average
equity which compares quite unfavorably with inflation (23% during the
year). Recently, however, the Government and CFN took a number of steps to
strengthen CFN financially and institutionally. CFN reorganized its loan
administration efforts and established units responsible for collection and
for restructuring problem companies. As a result, loan recoveries have
improved and a number of companies have been restructured. Moreover, in
December 1985, the Government took steps to increase effectively CFN's
capital by some US$40 million equivalent. Finally, CFN has taken steps to
sell a number of its equity holdings. These steps should greatly Improve the
financial structure of CFN and substantially ameliorate its recent liquidity
problems. Under the proposed Industrial Finance Project, the Government and
CFN have agreed to implement a plan of action to improve further CFN's
financial condition and efficiency. For the proposed SSE project, CFN's
financial condition would not have a major impact on FOPINAR, given the
latter's independent status. In practice, as described in the following
paragraphs, FOPINAR has been working effectively as a separate institution,
with separate accounts and staff, and has gained the confidence of the
financial intermediaries and the SSE community.
3.06      CFN had been authorized under its Organic Law of 1962 to discount
loans made by financial intermediaries to small industry. The establishment
of FOPINAR required no changes in CFN's Charter and was accomplished in May
1980 by CFN'S Board of Directors approving a Statement of Policies and a
Statement of Operating Procedures for FOPINAR. FOPINAR was established in
CFN's Quito headquarters within the Development Department.4/ Subsequently,
FOPINAR offices have been opened in 5 other cities (Guayaquil, Cuenca,
Machala, Manta, and Ambato) and have worked under the supervision of CFN
managers in those cities.
3.07      FOPINAR Plans for Strengthening Management and Administration.
FOPINAR's management has been quite capable and strives to continue improving
efficiency over the medium-term. One area requiring strengthening is the
interaction between staff of headquarters and other offices. Also, project
supervision and other activities need to be brought up to the level of
efficiency that has been achieved in project evaluation. To deal with these
matters, FOPINAR has modified its Policy Statement to: (i) include guidelines
describing responsibilities and procedures to be followed outside
headquarters both by FOPINAR and other CFN staff; and (ii) provide for
broadening the focus of its activities so that an increased share of staff
time would be devoted to project follow-up and technical assistance. In its
program, FOPINAR's management has also agreed with the Bank to gradually
increase its staff in view of the increased number of envisaged operations.
4/   The Departamento de Desarrollo (CFN's lending department) also operates
special export credit facilities (FOPEX) and the Industrial Loan
Division.



- 15 -
As a result of such a plan, FOPINAR would increase its staff from 22.3
person-years in 1984 to 32.3 by year-end 1986 (Annex 6, Tables 1-4) and staff
distribution by activity and region are expected to end up significantly more
balanced (Annex 7, Charts 1 and 2). Furthermore, FOPINAR would acquire
low-cost micro-computing equipment to be financed under the Technical
Assistance allocation of the proposed project, to upgrade its data handling
capabilities. Based on steady gains over the past four years, current
productivity levels are expected to be maintained and possibly further
improved in spite of staff increases. FOPINAR's average administrative costs
on outstanding portfolio are expected to reach a low of 1.2% by year-end
1986, which compares favorably with 4.6Z in 1981 (its first year of
operation), 2.3% in 1982, 1.6% in 1983, and 1.3% in 1984.
3.08      Lending Volumes.  FOPINAR has shown an impressive disbursements
growth record (Annex 8). In spite of the recession in the 1981-84 period,
FOPINAR disbursements have increased in real terms at 18% p.a. (50% p.a. in
nominal terms compared to average inflation of 27Z p.a. in the period) well
above the average growth of lending of other credit programs in Ecuador.
While FOPINAR's rate has been quite attractive (it has been negative in real
terms) it has been in line with other rates in the system. The strength of
the demand for FOPINAR funds is explained mostly by the above-average
financial condition of SSEs mainly due to their low overall indebtedness,
which has made it attractive for financial intermediaries to lend to them.
The strength of the demand is also due to the fact that only a small
proportion of all SSEs have accessed FOPINAR and that FOPINAR's market is
still far from saturation. Increased resources would continue to be required
to satisfy SSE needs over the next few years. FOPINAR disbursements are
expected to increase in real terms at 15% in 1985, 12% in 1986, and 10% in
1987 and 1988, ranging from US$15.2 million in 1985, to US$24 million in 1988
(Annex 9, pages 1 and 2).
3.09      FOPINAR Financial Condition.  FOPINAR's financial performance has
been quite satisfactory and has allowed it to maintain a sound financial
position since its inception in 1981. As of December 31, 1984, FOPINAR's
capital structure was adequate (Debt/Equity ratio of 4.2:1) and its liquidity
satisfactory (with a very high current ratio of 5:1 due to almost
non-existing short-term liabilities). However, on account of unexpectedly
strong demand for FOPINAR funds in 1985, FOPINAR's liquidity stood only at
about US$2 million equivalent at the end of the year instead of about US$5
million equivalent which had been forecast during appraisal. As a result,
FOPINAR was contemplating resorting to Central Bank credit lines as bridge
financing to continue financing its operations before effectiveness of the
proposed Bank loan. FOPINAR has also had a satisfactory cost structure. In
1984, for example, its total revenue amounted to 15.9% of the average
outstanding portfolio (compared to financial costs of 9.1Z), which left an
adequate financial spread of 6.8%. Since FOPINAR's administrative costs
amounted to only 1.3% of outstanding portfolio, its profit amounted to 5.5Z,
equivalent to 24% on FOPINAR's equity, well above the average for Ecuadorian
financial institutions.



- 16 -
3.10      FOPINAR's financial projections show that its financial condition
and performance would be maintained at satisfactory levels over the next few
years (Annex 9). For year-end 1988, when most of the proposed loan should be
disbursed, FOPINAR would continue to have an adequate capital structure
(Debt-to-Equity ratio of 6.5:1) and liquidity. The probability of realizing
these projections would be enhanced with an early implementation of the
Government's new interest rate policy (paras. 2.07 and 2.09), especially
because of the variable and positive-in-real-terms interest features.
3.11      Collections and Portfolio Quality.  FOPINAR's collection record has
been impressive since the beginning of its operations. As of December 31,
1984, only 2% of the FOPINAR -financed portion of the portfolios of
participating financial institutions was in arrears, which compares quite
favorably with an average 202 for the overall portfolio of Ecuadorian
financial institutions. While no statistics on affected portfolio are
available in Ecuador, the surveyed SSEs showed that as of December 1984,
about 7.3Z of FOPINAR's portfolio was affected by arrears over 60 days, which
seems tolerable.5/ Moreover, the risk to FOPINAR would be smaller than
suggested by such statistics since the financial intermediaries are expected
to repay FOPINAR regardless of repayments by SSEs. Under the financial
arrangements agreed upon, collections would continue to be made through
automatic debiting of the financial intermediaries accounts with BCE. These
arrangements guarantee that FOPINAR's liquidity would be protected, even
under potential temporary illiquidity problems that could affect some
financial intermediaries. FOPINAR's Policy Statement reflects these
arrangements.
3.12      To further protect FOPINAR's financial condition and provide for
current information on subproject status, FOPINAR's revised Policy Statement
assures that financial intermediaries would have access to FOPINAR only if
they have demonstrated to FOPINAR in writing on a semi-annual basis that: (i)
their FOPINAR portfolio contains loans affected with arrears over 90 days and
other loans with re-financing over the past 360 days which total less than
15% of FOPINAR's outstanding portfolio; and (ii) their Debt-to-Equity ratio
(after deducting provisions for bad debts from equity) would not exceed 20:1
or legal requirements in Ecuador, whichever is lower. Guidelines were also
included to focus FOPINAR's subproject appraisal process on these sectors
with high trade protection or idle capacity, while such conditions persist
(para. 3.14).
5/   In 58% of cases, surveyed SSEs have never been in arrears; and out of
the remaining 42%, 38% have been in arrears for less than 90 days
(reflecting minor problems) and only 4% for 180-360 days (reflecting
mare serious problems). Thus, only 4% of surveyed enterprises faced
serious - but still solvable -- problems, which reflects the sound
financial position of SSEs as described above (paras. 1.10-1.11).



- 17 -
3.13      Subproject Appraisal and Supervision Activities.  subprojects
financed by FOPINAR are varied in complexity and size, ranging from a large
number of very small artisan subprojects requiring total investments of
several thousand dollars, to a few small size industrial subprojects
typically involving investments of several hundred thousand dollars. Thus,
the depth and sophistication of subproject appraisal and review have been
varied to fit the size and nature of subprojects. Financial Intermediaries,
in cooperatlion with subborrowers, have been responsible for preparing
subproject appraisals, which FOPINAR has regularly reviewed. FOPINAR has
approved financing for those judged as technically sound, financially viable
and economically justified. The FOPINAR system, however, can be expected to
carry out only limited economic project appraisal work, given the small size
of average lending (US$20,000 per Bank subloan in the 1981-84 period and
US$27,900 under the proposed project).
3.14      FOPINAR's economic analysis would consist of:
(a) carrying out sector studies to identify subsectors and regions
where import prohibitions were redundant6/, so that private
decisions by SSEs on expected financial returns would be
consistent with economic efficiency (Annex 10);
(b) carrying out quarterly sampling of its clients to estimate
idle capacity at the sectoral and regional levels and sharing
their findings and conclusions with financial intermediaries,
so that they were better informed on SSE prospects in their
decision-making processes; and
(c) as part of its appraisal work, in case of subloans above
US$100,000, FOPINAR would calculate economic rates of return
(ERR) per subproject in all sectors. However, once the above
mentioned sector studies are completed, the Bank would
determine, in consultation with CFN, the sectors in which
distortions were relevant and not redundant. In such cases,
ERR calculations would continue to be required for subloans
61   Import restrictions would be redundant in cases such as:
(a) availability of abundant and low cost raw materials as in the case
of food processing;
(b) prohibitive transport costs as in the case of furniture or
construction materials production;
(c) export industry;
(d) products made to order on the basis of individual specifications,
as in the case of the printing industry; and
(e) very strong local competition as in the leather goods sector.



- 18 -
above US$SOO,OOO equivalent.7/ In all other sectors, ERR
calculations would be required only for subloans above
US$200,000 equivalent. The minimum acceptable ERR will be 12%
in real terms.
'uiring supervision of the project, Bank supervision missions would review the
adequacy of the new screening process and agree upon necessary amendments.
3.15      FOPINAR's Technical Assistance to SSEs.  While FOPINAR should
continue its efforts to coordinate its TA efforts with other institutions in
the field (para. 1.12), it would: (i) continue to help develop TA projects
benefiting groups of SSEs; and (ii) offer long-term financing of TA
activities to SSEs, through subloans to be financed from its own funds and
resources from the proposed loan.   The program of TA for groups would be
developed on the basis of a diagnosis that FOPINAR intends to complete by the
end of 1985. Such a program would involve the provision of experts, financed
by FOPINAR's own resources, to carry out TA on a regional or subsectoral
basis (e.g. accounting improvements for selected regions or support for
improved tanning techniques for the leather subsector). The availability of
long-term financing on attractive conditions is expected to be an instrument
to induce entrepreneurs to undertake, without delay, needed TA tasks from
their preferred sources of assistance. FOPINAR analysis and recommendations
would also be expected to be taken into account by SSEs when developing their
own specific TA programs.
3.16      Thus, under individual subprojects, FOPINAR will finance separately
or in addition to fixed assets and/or permanent working capital, reasonable
costs of technical assistance activities that SSEs may wish to undertake. To
promote TA financing in Ecuador, FOPINAR has decided to finance up to 20% of
such costs through grants for which FOPINAR would establish an initial budget
of not more than S/.10 million (US$100,000 equivalent) from its profits,
which would accommodate up to US$500,000 in TA costs. FOPINAR would review
the costs and benefits of this approach after one year of operations and
would continue with it if results are favorable.
Participating Financial Intermediaries
3.17      Financial Intermediaries.  As under the prior two projects
qualifying commercial banks, DFCs and BNF will continue intermediating
FOPINAR subloans to SSEs. To qualify they will continue to be required to
sign a participation agreement in which they commit themselves to maintain an
administrative unit with at least one qualified staff member to carry out
project evaluation and supervision work along FOPINAR guidelines. In
addition, to qualify financial intermediaries will have to meet the criteria
7/   It is expected that ERRs would be calculated by FOPINAR for about 50-80
subprojects, based upon size distribution of FOPINAR subloans in 1984.



- 19 -
on portfolio quality and debt-to-equity ratio set out in para. 3.12 above.
Signing of a Participation Agreement satisfactory to the Bank would be a
condition of disbursement of loan proceeds to the corresponding financial
intermediary. There are currently 24 commercial banks, 11 DFCs and Banco
Nacional de Fomento (BNF), a public development bank, that have signed
participation agreements with FOPINAR. DFCs were the most active
intermediaries in 1981 with 642 of total FOPINAR lending. Their
participation has gradually decreased so that by 1984 the DFCs and the
commercial banks each had a 31% share. On the other hand, BNF, which had
only a 5% share in 1981, has increasingly become more active and held a 38%
share of total FOPINAR lending in 1984. While it is important for FOPINAR to
retain active pdrticipation of private DFCs and commercial banks, the more
active participation of BNF has been quite beneficial, since BNF has the
infrastructure to reach SSEs at the smaller end of the spectrum and located
in smaller cities and towns.
3.18      Banco Naci-nal de Fomento is a large, mainly agricultural bank with
assets of over US$450 million equivalent as of year-end 1934; it accounts for
about 15% of total lending by the banking system . To carry out its duties
it has developed a network of over 75 branches widely distributed throughout
the country. For the FOPINAR program, project teams operating in a manner
similar to agricultural extension services, visit the potential borrowers to
review their financing requirements and help them prepare final requests.
Once subloans have been authorized by FOPINAR, the same team will continue
visiting Lhe sub-borrowers to carry out supervision work. Given BNF's
geographic scope, administrative infrastructure, sound capital structure (5:1
debt-to-equity ratio as of Decemlber 31, 1984) and the low level of arrears on
its FOPINAR portfolio (2.4% as of year-end 1984), BNF is expected to continue
to be the major intermediary in the FOPINAR program.
3.19      FOPINAR has agreed with the Bank on the need to provide incentives
to the financial intermediaries to mobilize more resources on their own and,
in turn, provide greater financial assistance to SSEs. Under the proposed
project financial intermediaries will continue, as under the prior twc Bank
loans, to be required to provide at least 10% of each financing provided to
SSEs. However, given the Government's intention to allow industrial
long-term loans to carry variable interest rates at positive real levels
(para. 2.09), it should be possible for FOPINAR to require in the future an
increasingly larger financial participation by intermediaries. Thus,
agreements have been reached that, one year after effectiveness of the
proposed loan, CFN s'ould review with the Bank, FOPINAR s rediscounting
percentage to inter-iediaries, and, in agreement with the Bank, adjust it if
warranted to encourage more ample domestic resource mobilization.
C. Project Costs and Financing Arrangements
3.20      Project Costs.  The estimated total costs of new investments by
SSEs under the project, would be about US$93.8 million, of which US$42.4
million (45%) represent foreign costs. Import duties and domestic sales



- 20 -
taxes would account for roughly 9% of total project cost. Up to US$200,000
would cover costs of technical assistance to FOPINAR. The proposed loan
would finance up to 100% of CIF costs of foreign expenditures and up to 45%
of local expenditures. The proposed loan would finance about 32% of total
project costs, equivalent to about 70Z of the project's foreign exchange
content. Beneficiaries would finance about 37% of total costs; FOPINAR about
252; and financial intermediaries the remaining 62. Since the Bank's second
SSE loan (Loan 2221-EC) waz virtually fully committed by end 1985, and in
view of the la.k of alternative long-term resources in Ecuador, retroactive
financing of up to USS3 million equ:ualent (equal to 10% of the loan amount)
would be p-ovided for subloans under the proposed loan. Table 3 below shows
the expected total project costs and financing plan.
TABLE 3
SSE Project Cost and Financing Plan
(amounts in US$ million equivalent)
Foreign Costs  Local Costs    Total Costs
Amount         Amount    Amount      Z
Project Costs
SSE Investment                      42.2            51.6      93.8      99.8
Technical Assistance
to FOPINAR                          .2             -          .2       0.2
Total                            42.4            51.6      94.0    100.0
Percentage of Total Costs (Z)       45.0            55.0     100.0
Source of Financing
IBRD                                30.0             -        30.0    32.0
Financial Intermediaries
(minimum)                           -               5.3       5.3      6.0
Beneficiaries                        7.2            28.0      35.2    37.0
FOPINAR                              5.2            18.3      23.5    25.0
Total Financing Required         42.4            51.6      94.0   100.0
Source: Mission estimates.
3.21      Loan and Subsidiary Loan Terms.  The proposed loan of US$30 million
equivalent would provide up to US$200,000 for Technical Assistance financing
to FOPINAR and the rest - not less than USS29.8 milliozt - for SSE lending.
The loan would be made to the Government of Ecuador at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate and standard comritment fee of 3/4 of 1% p.a. It will
be repaid in 17 years, including four years of grace. The Government, 'could
onlend the loan proceeds through BCE to CFN for use by FOPINAR at the same



- 21 -
maturity but in Sucres and at a variable interest rate (para. 3.22 below) and
will assume the foreign exchange risk. The resulting roll-overs are intended
to strengthen FOPINAR's cash position and will be used for lending to SSEs in
accordance with its Policy Statement. Signing of a subsidiary loan agreement
satisfactory to the Bank between BCE and CFN, on behalf of FOPINAR, will be a
condition of loan effectiveness.
3.22      Subloans. FOPINAR subloans would be made on terms which would take
into account the economic life of assets to be financed and the repayment
capacity of sub-borrowers. This would tend to mitigate liquidity strains on
sub-borrowers resulting from high nominal interest rates. Subloans would
have a maximum maturity of 10 years including a grace period of up to 3 years
and would carry a variable interest rate as established from time to time by
the Monetary Board. Interest rates charged to final beneficiaries on FOPINAR
subloans would be established periodically by the Monetary Board, at levels
which would be positive in real terms (para. 2.09). Collection of interest
payments to the intermediaries and FOPINAR would initially be made
semiannually; within one year after loan effectiveness, CFN would review with
the Bank the adequacy of this frequency, and, in agreement with the Bank,
increase it if warranted to continue improving the efficiency of the
collections system. FOPINAR will initially discount up to 90% of financial
intermediaries' loans to final borrowers (para. 3.19). FOPINAR would allow a
apread of 4-5% to financial intermediaries (4% for subloans with maturities
up to 6 years and 5% for subloans with maturities over 6 years) and charge a
fee of 2.5% p.a. for its subloans plus a 1% one-time commitment fee. The
adequacy of these spreads would be reviewed semi-annually by the Borrower and
the Bank and adjusted if warranted. BCE would charge a fee of 1/8 of 1%
p.a. (para. 3.24). The foreign exchange risk will be borne by the Government
since funds will be passed on to FOPINAR in Sucres. However, to recover the
possible costs of such a risk, the G-vernment would be paid by CFN the
amounts derived from the differential between the interest rate to final
sub-borrowers (net of intermediation fees) and the Bank's rate. Assuming a
final nominal onlending rate on subloans of 25%, about 10% p.-. would be paid
in this regard (25% minus about 5% for intermediaries, minus 2.52 for
FOPINAR, minus 0.125% for BCE, minus about 8.5Z for the Bank loan).
3.23      Under the proposed loan, the maximum cumulative amount of subloans
per sub-borrower would be USS350,000 equivalent, as under the prior SSE
project, and sub-borrowers would be required to have a debt-to-equity ratio
of not more than 70:30 after taking into account the subproject costs. All
subprojects will be appraised by the financial intermediaries in accordance
with FOPINAR's appraisal requirements established t-nder the prior two loans
and taking account the results of the new subsectoraL studies that will be
carried out by FOPINAR (para. 3.14). FOPINAR will be required to review all
subprojects (ex-ante for subloans above US$80,000 equivalent and ex-post for
those below such amount). Economic rates of return (ERR) calculations will
be required to the extent described in para. 3.14 above. All subloans over
an initial USS200,000 free limit will require prior Bank approval. This
should result in prior Bank review of about 10 subloans. The adequacy of
this free-limit would be reviewed from time to time and modified by the Bank,



-22 -
as necessary. In addition, selected subprojects below the free limit will be
reviewed by supervision missions. Financial intermediarles will be
responsible for the follow-up of their subprojects on a sample basis. The
size and composition of the supervision sample will be determined by FOPINAR
with the objective of obtaining a representative distribution to cover
annually at least 10% of FOPINAR's outstanding portfolio. These aspects are
reflected in FOPINAR's Policy Statement.
3.24      Financial Agent.  BCE would agree to continue to serve as agent for
the government and FOPINAR for a fee of 1/8% of 1% per annum on outstanding
balances of FOPINAR loans. As financial agent, its main operational
responsibility would be to continue to maintain a project account for the SSE
operation and to serve as the collection facility for FOPINAR by crediting
and debiting the financial accounts of participating financial intermediaries
upon receipt of appropriate documentation from FOPINAR. A financial agency
contract between the Government and BCE, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a
condition of loan effectiveness.
3.25      Procurement.  The financial intermediaries and FOPINAR would
satisfy themselves during subproject appraisal that procurement items were
suitable for the respective investment projects and reasonably priced and
that beneficiaries had canvassed the main available sources of supply and
were purchasing from advantageous sources. Items will be procured in
accordance with normal commercial practices for DFC-type projects. Since it
may be difficult or relatively costly to obtain several quotations from
suppliers for small orders, the evidence of solicitations of offers, while
encouraged, would only be required for procurement orders above US$150,000.
This requirement would not be applicable in the case of propietary items.
Consulting setvices and goods for technical assistance for FOPINAR would be
procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Small loans to finance
consulting services under the SSE project would be open to local or foreign
professional consulting firms pre-qualified by FOPINAR and in accordance with
terms of reference subject to FOPINAR's review.
3.26      Disbursements.  Disbursements would be made to finance up to:  (a)
100% of CIF costs of directly imported equipment, materials and services,
including goods purchased off-the-shelf from domestic distributors whenever
CIF prices can be ascertained; (b) 45Z of the cost of locally procured goods
and services, including civil works; and Cc) 100% of the total cost of
services and goods related to TA for FOPINAR. Disbursement for goods and
services (a) and (b) will be mostly made on the basis of Statement of
Expenditures for amounts normally not less than US$700,000 to be submitted by
FOPINAR to the Bank. FOPINAR will retain the original disbursement documents
which will be available for Bank review. In most cases, disbursements will
be made to reimburse FOPINAR for prior expenditures made. However, in the
case of direct imports for individual payments over US$50,000, direct
payments to suppliers against standard documentation will also apply. It is
expected that not more than 20 such direct payment requests would be received
under this procedure.



- 23 -
3.27      If disbursements take place at the average rate for IDF Bank loans
in LAC, it would take until March 1992 to fully disburse the proposed loan
(Annex 11).8/ Therefore, the final date for submission of subloan proposals
to the Bank for authorization or approval would be March 31, 1991, and the
Closing Date March 31, 1992.
3.28      Current disbursement arrangements with BCE have proven to be slow
and cumbersome. A modification of procedures is reflected in the updated
FOPINAR Policy Statement and Manuals. Under the revised procedures, FOPINAR
would maintain adequate liquidity levels that would enable it to disburse in
full the subloans to financial intermediaries, imediately after FOPINAR has
approved an operation; a Special Account would not be established under the
proposed project.
3.29      Bank Monitoring.  The Bank, while monitoring the fulfillment of the
project objectives (Annex 12), will pay special attention to the following
indicators:
(i) the rate at which FOPINAR commitments and disbursements are
being made (para. 3.27) and at which new jobs are being
created;
(ii) the levels of permanent working capital financing by FOPINAR
and their impact on idle capacity;
(iti) FOPINAR's adequacy of staff and procedures and levels of
administrative costs on outstanding portfolio;
(iv) FOPINAR's debt-equity ratio and profitability; and
(v) the proportion of FOPINAR's disbursements outside the Quito
and Guayaquil industrial areas.
3.30      Accounting, Auditing and Reports.  CFN would continue to maintain
separate accounts for FOPINAR as established for the prior two projects, in
accordance with accounting principles consistently applied and in a form
satisfactory to the Bank. As part of their audit of CFN, external auditors
satisfactory to the Bank will carry out an annual audit of FOPINAR's
accounts, in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. As
under the prior two projects, CFN will submit the audit report to the Bank,
together with its corresponding-management letter, within five months
following the end of each fiscal year. Under the prior two projects, Price
Waterhouse & Co. carried out FOPINAR's audit. FOPINAR audits were issued
8/   However, based upon the size of the proposed loan and prior experience
it is possible that under the proposed loan US$8.1 million would be
committed and US$5.8 million disbursed in 1986, US$12.9 million
committed and US$13.0 million disbursed in 1987, US$9.0 million
committed and US$10.7 million disbursed in 1988 and US$0.5 million
disbursed from previous commitments in 1989 (Annex 9, page 7).



- 24 -
without qualifications and reports were received by the Bank within the time
specified in the respective Project Agreements. It will be a covenant of the
loan that CFN will continue to submit to the Bank by November 30 of each
year, FOPINAR's annual budget, including proposed allocations of indirect
costs, for the Bank's review and comment.
D. Project Benefits and Risks
3.31      The proposed project would continue to support the financing of ef-
ficient SSE projects in Ecuador at a time when the financial system lacks
long term resources to finance SSE's investment needs. On the basis of the
experience under the prior two SSE loans the proposed project would finance
some 2,100 investment subprojects involving total investment costs of about
US$94 million, generating over 18,000 new jobs.  The impact of the project is
expected to be geographically dispersed with a high percentage of projects
concentrated in rural areas.  Only about 40Z of subprojects financed would be
in the industrial centers of Pichincha and Guayas. Furthermore, given the
support to FOPINAR to continue strengthening its institutional capability,
better services to SSEs as well as efficient subloan and subproject imple-
mentation are expected. A principal benefit would result from the dialogue
conducted with the Government in connection with this loan on resource mobi-
lization, interest rate and domestic industrial policy issues, which
critically affect the macro-economic environment in which SSEs function.
3.32      Risks.  Possible changes in FOPINAR's management could pose some
future risks to efficient project execution. Assurances have, therefore,
been obtained that FOPINAR would continue to be managed soundly. Also,
depending on the rate of economic recovery in Ecuador and the potential
negative short-term impact of import liberalization and interest rate
reforms, demand for project resources could slacken. However, even if loan
disbursements slowed somewhat, the project would remain viable.



- 25 -
IV. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements
4.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was obtained and understandings
were reached on the following:
(1) With the Government on:
(a) assuming the foreign exchange risk under the loan, for
which it would charge a fee to CFN (para. 3.22);
(b) establishing a variable interest rate for subloans
(para. 2.07);
(c) maintaining interest rates on all loans to the industrial
sector, with maturity exceeding two years, at levels
which were positive in real terms, and which, after July
1, 1987, were also adequate relative to deposite rates,
as measured by criteria agreed with the Bank. The
Government would review with the Bank the adequacy of the
level of lending interest rates at least semi-annually,
beginning October 1, 1986. It would also review
semi-annually with the Bank the adequacy of domestic
financial resource mobilization, based as well on
criteria agreed with the Bank. The adequacy of spreads
would also be reviewed on these occasions. If, during
any of these reviews after July 1, 1987, the levels of
lending interest rates, spreads, or domestic financial
resource mobilization were inadequate, and the Government
and the Bank were unable to agree on remedies for this,
then the Bank would have the right to withhold financing
of fresh sub-loan commitments under the proposed loan
(para. 2.09);
(d) the need to provide retroactive financing of up to US$3
million from the proposed loan for subloans under the
project (para. 3.20);
(e) the need to review annually the adequacy of levels of the
intermediation fees to be charged by FOPINAR and the
intermediaries (para. 3.22); and
(f) the mechanism to be used by BCE for collections on behalf
of FOPINAR and the corresponding fee to be charged by BCE
(paras. 3.11 and 3.24).
(2) With CFN on:



- 26 -
(a) revisions on FOPINAR's Operating Policy Statement (paras.
3.07, 3.11, 3.12, 3.14, 3.16, 3.22, 3.23 and 3.28) and
procedures to determine FOPINAR's Operating Budget
including the indirect costs to be charged by CFN (para.
3.30);
(b) the need to review, one year after loan effectiveness,
the desirability of quarterly instead of semi-annual
collections (pars. 2.09), the rediscounting percentage to
intermediaries, and revise them, if appropriate, to
encourage more efficient collection and more ample
domestic resource mobilization (para. 3.19); and
(c)  accounting, auditing and reports (para. 3.30).
4.02      Conditions of Loan Effectiveness are that the Government and BCE
enter into an agency contract and BCE and CFN enter into a subsidiary loan
agreement, both satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 3.21 and 3.24);
4.03      Condition of disbursement by FOPINAR to a participating financial
intermediary would be the signature between CFN, on behalf of FOPINAR, and
such intermediary of a satisfactory participation agreement that would
specify eligibility requirements and other obligations of FOPINAR and the
intermediaries (para. 3.17).
Recommendation
4.04      With the above agreements, the proposed project would constitute a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$30 million to the Republic of Ecuador on
the terms and conditions shown in Chapter IV.



- 27 -
ANNEX 1
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Geographic Distribution of FOPINAR Disbursements
January 1 to June 30, 1984
PROVINCE           NO. OF OPERATIONS      DISBURSEMENTS          z
S/.
Azuay                     81              57'275.820,00         13,7
Bolivar                    4                 735.668,00          0,2
Canar                      7               1'454.850,00          0,4
Carchi                     5                 871.326,00          0,2
Chimborazo                24              16'369.257,00          3,9
Cotopaxi                   1                 537.500,00          0,1
El Oro                    28              14'032.123,05          3,4
Esmeraldas                 4               5'963.441,04          1,4
Guayas                    35              75'241.242,34         18,0
Imbabura                 44               20'519.767,70          4,9
Loja                     47               13'413.914,79          3,2
Los Rios                 39               59'511.263,32         14,3
Manabi                    17              33'699.998,20          8,1
Morona Santiago            9               3'033.450.00          0,8
Napo                       7               6'807.599,51          1,6
Pastaza                    5               1'382.697,22          0,3
Fichincha                104              81'967.567,25         19.7
Tungurahua                33              23'990.541,00          5,8
TOTAL                   494              416'808.026.66        100,0
Total Quito - Guayaquil  85               95'245.339,86          22,9
Total Rest of Country   409              321'562.686,80          77,1



-28 -                            ANNEX 2
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD SHALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Average Balance Sheet of Surveyed SSEs
(in constant USdollars as of December 31, 1984)
As of           As of            Average Annual
6/30/82         6/30/84             Change (Z)
Assets:
Cash                         4,350            3,370                -12.0
Accounts Receivable         21,590           15,080                -16.4
Inventories                 25,880           35,480                 17.1
Other current                6,660            8,550                 13.3
Total Current Assets          58,480           62,480                  3.3
-                   - 
Land                        13,470           17,380                 13.5
Buildings                   22,190           29,480                 15.3
Machinery                   33,590            3,750                 14.1
Total Fixed Assets            69,250           90,610                 14.4
Total Assets                 127,730          153,090                  9.5
Liabilities
Short-term                  48,860           42,840                 -6.4
Long-term                   25,700           37,230                 20.3
Total Liabilities             74.560           80,070                  3.6
Equity                        53,170           73,020                 17.2
Total Liab. and Equity       127,730          153,090                  9.5
Ratios and Reference Items
Debt-to-Equity                1.4              1.1                   -
Current Ratio                 1.2              1.4                   -
Sales (12 months)          90,550          115,554                  13%
Profits (12 months)        12,420           16,960                  17%
Source: Mission estimates upon Survey of 101 SSEs.



-9 -                              ANNEX 3
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
The Sucretization Program
1.        The devaluations in 1982 and 1983 imposed a severe burden on the
financial system. The sucretization mechanism was established by the Central
Bank (BCE) in March of 1983, to help ease such burden. Under the
sucretization mechanism (Monetary Board Resolutions 047-83 and 048-83 of
March 1983) US$1.2 billion In private sector registered foreign debt was
assumed by the BCE. It provided that financial Intermediaries assumed the
obligation to pay BCE (i) the equivalent amount of principal in Sucres (at
the current exchange rate) carrying an interest rate of 16X p.a. plus an
annual fee of 1/2% on uudisbursed balances, and (ii) an exchange risk
commission equal to between 70% and 100% of the principal under (a) above,
intended to cover the possible exchange loss associated with future
devaluations over the period of the credit. Simultaneously, the financial
intermediary and the private enterprise, were to negotiate a Sucre loan under
terms similar to those given by the BCE. The principal of the Sucre loan and
the exchange risk commission were to be paid over a maximum term of three
years including 1-1/2 years of grace; and since October 1984, with a maximum
of seven years including 4-1/2 years of grace.l/ No interest, however, is
payable to BCE on the portion of the sucretized loan representing the
exchange risk fee, and the intermediaries are not permitted to charge
interest on this amount to their borrowers; thus they effectively receive no
spread on such portion (on average 46% of sucretized loans). As a result of
the Sucretization programs, private borrowers have been helped into a better
cash flow situation but financial intermediaries have seen their liabilities
increase several-fold, resulting in a sharp deterioration of their
debt/equity ratios to levels as high as 25:1 as of June 1984. Similarly,
their profitability has suffered since their fixed costs continue increasing
with laflation while their ability to make new loans is restricted given
their already 'high debt/equity ratios.
1/  In mid-October 1984, it became evident that most Ecuadorian enterprises
would be unable to pay the debt as scheduled under the original sucreti-
zation program. The terms of the sucretization were extended to seven
years, with 4-1/2 years of grace, but the other conditions were left un-
changed. While this extension clearly has alleviated the repayment
problems of debtors, it seems to have been too generous with respect to
the cost of the loans (the exchange risk fee was not increased but the
exchange losses would now increase given the longer new repayment
periods). Moreover, the Central Bank would not only be confrontci with
a large portfolio of long-term assets which would inhibit the realloca-
tion of resources but also with losses that would have to be covered by
Central Government revenues, or alternatively by inflacion taxes.



-30                              ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Distortions on Debt Servicing of Long-Term
Basis due to High Inflation
1.        Inflation distorts repayment schedules of long-term loans.  When a
long-term loan repayment schedule has been designed with traditlonal systems
to obtain a principal repayment schedule that is constarnt in nominal terms
(Table 1 of this Annex), the impact of inflation will he such that it will
reduce the effective maturity of the loan in real terrs by accelerating
repayments in real terms during the earlier years of the loan. This will
normally create a cash-flow problem to the borrower that was unintended by
the lender when the loan was originally made. As shown in Table 1, one-half
of total payments in real terms would be made in only two years under a
10-year loan, a devastating impact due to money-illusion arising from
inflationary effects.
2.        The above problem can be solved by establishing from the start a
repayment schedule that is to be constant-in-real-terms. Once the amount of
the constant-in-real-terms payments have been defined, the actual payments to
be made by the borrower would be determined by the price index at the time of
repayment (the constant amount times the price index). This is actually what
the indexation-of-principal method is expected to do. In some countries,
however, it is considered that indexing is a necessary evil that should be
avoided as much as possible, in which cases, the capitalization-of-interest
method can be used instead. In practice, the capitalization-of-interest
method (Table 2) would yield the same results as the indexation-of-principal
method. As shown by Table 2, under the capitalization-of-interest case,
one-half of total payments in real terms would be made in five years, as
originally intended for a 10-year loan. Table 3 shows a comparison of the
cash-flows under both methods, clearly indicating the beneflts of the
capitalization-of-interest meth-. For the examples, an initial loan of
S/100, a 10-year repayment period, a constant inflation of 20% p.a. and an
interest rate of 232 p.a. have been assumed.



ANNEX 4
- 3 1 -                            Page 2 of 3
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD  SHALL  SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE I
Repayments under Standard Schedule
Percent
Annual  Total   Cuul.   Percent
End of   Price    Sturting Interest Aomrtli. Total    End       Real     Real    Real    Cu ul.
Year     Index    6lance  Accrued  Principl Paid       Balance  Paymnts Payents Payments Payments
0     1.00
1     1.20   100.00    23.00    10.00    33.00    90.00    27.50    25.30    27.50    25.30
2     1.44    90.00    20.70    10.00    30.70    80.00    21.32    19.61    48.82    44.91
3     1.73    90.00    18.50    10.00    29.40    70.00    14.44    15.12    65.25    60.03
4     2.07    70.00    16.10    10.00    26.10    60.00    12.59    11.58    77.94    71.60
5     2.49    60.00    13.80    10.00    23.80    50.00      9.56     8.90    91.41    80.40
6     2.99    50.00    11.50    10.00    21.50    40.00      7.20     6.62    94.61    87.03
7     3.59    40.00     9.20    10.00    19.20   30.00      5.36      4.93   q9.96    91.95
9     4.30    30.00     6.90    10.00    16.90   20.00       3.93    3.62   103.90    95.57
9     5.16    20.00     4.60    10.00    14.60    10.00     2.13      2.60   106.72    98.17
10     6.19   10.00      2.-    1;0.00    12.30     0.00      I."      1.93   108.71  100.00
TABLE 2
Capitalization-of-Interest Nethod
percent
Annual  Totel   Cumol.   Percent
End of   Price    Starting Interest Neu      Curront  End       Real    Real    Real    Coaul.
Year     Index    Balance  Accrued  halace  Paymenth  Balance  Payment Payemnts Payment. Paymentx
0     1.00
1     1.20   100.00    23.00   123.00    12.30   110.70    10.25     8.93    10.25      9.93
2     1.44   110.70    25.46   136.16    15.13   121.03    10.51      9.15    20.76    19.07
3     1.73   121.03    27.84   149.97    19.61   130.26    10.77     9.38    31.53    27.45
4     2.07   130.26    29.96   160.22    22.89   137.33    11.04      9.61    42.a6    37.06
5     2.49   137.33    31.59   169.92    28.15   140.77    11.31      9.95    53.98    46.92
6     2.99   140.77    32.38   173.14    34.63   138.51    11.60    10.10    65.47    57.02
7     3.58   138.51    31.86   170.37    42.59   127.78    11.89    10.35    77.36    67.37
8     4.30   127.79    29.39   157.17    52.39   104.78    12.18    10.61    B9.55    77.99
9     5.16   104.78    24.10   129.89    64.44    64.44    12.49    10.89   102.03    89.85
10     6.19    64.44    14.82    79.26    79.26     0.00    12:80    11.15   114.93   100.00
a/ The new balance is estimated by adding the the accrued interest to the starting balance.
b/ Paymunts re equal to the new balance divided by the namber of years reoaining under the loan.



-32-                                        ANNEX 4
iragrfof 3
ECUADOR'
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE 3
Payments Cumparison betwun Methods
(As Prctontan of total ral paymts)
Traditional Ilthad            Interest Capitalization lithod
End of           ----         
Yuar             Annual            Cumulative       Annual            Cuulativn
0
1            25.30             25.30             9.93              8.93
2            19.61             44.91             9.15             11.07
3            15.12             60.03             9.39             27.45
4            11.59             71.60             9.61             37.06
5             9.90             80.40             9.85             46.92
6             6.62             97.03             10.10            57.02
7             4.93             91.95            10.35             67.37
*             3.62             95.57            10.61             77.9
9             2.60             99.17            10.98            89.85
10             1.83            100.00            11.15            100.00
Payments Comparison between Methods
100                      As percentages of Total Real Payments
90-
80 -
70-
60 
40 
30 
20-
10
1        2         3         4        5         6         7         8        9         10
o    Traditional Method                               +    Capitalization  Interest



- 33 -
ANNEX 5
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
FOPINAR's Use of Technical Assistance
A. Equipment                                                   Cost Estimates
(US$)
Software and computing equipment to improve CFN's               100,000
data management handling capabilities.
B. Staff
6 man-monthsof short-term consultants to support FOPINAR's      100,300
ability to carry out sectoral studies to identify subsectors
and regions where import prohlbitions were redundant, and
provide T.A. to SSEs.
200,000



- 34 -AN                           6
ANNEX 6
Table 1
ECUADOR
STA"F APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD SHALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
FOPINAR's Staff and Tine Distribution (as of December 1984)
(in person-years)
A. Activity                                 Person-Years      (x)
1. Promotion                                    1.3           5.8
2. Project Evaluation                          11.86         53.2
3. Project Supervision                          2.18          9.8
4. Statistical and Information Systems          4.94         22.1
5. Policy Analysis                              1.10          4.9
6. Technical Assistance                         0.93          4.2
Total                                     22.31        100.0
B. Location
1. Quito                                       13.21         59.1
2. Guayaquil                                    4.30         19.3
3. Cuecca                                       1.20          5.4
4. Machala                                      1.20          5.4
5. Manta                                        '.40          6.3
6. Ambato                                       1.00          4.5
Tocal                                     22.31        100.0
Source: FOPTNAR and appraisal miasion estimates.



ANNEX 6
Table 2
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD SNALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
FOPINAR STAFF PERSONIIEL TASS TIME DISTRIWT2TI1
AS OF IVIER 1984 - In Pern-Yeas
Project    PrDjKct    Statistics Policy     Technical
Location/Mm      Education  Title      Promotion   Evaluation  Supervision Inforutim Analysis   Assistance    TOTAL
Ouito-Hqtrs.
I.- J. Davalos   Econonist  CFII'.P.         0.020      0.000      0.100      0.050       0.040      0.000      0.210
2.- J. Villacis  Economist  FOPINAR-fiS      0.235      0.200      0.200       0.050      0.210      0.105      1.000
3.- 0. Rouro    Economist  EvaI.Head         0.100      0.600      0.150       0.050      0.100      0.000      1.000
4.- f. Swran     Economist  T.A.Head         0.300      0.000      0.000       0.000      0.100      0.600      1.000
5.- L. Villareal kcountant Analyst           0.000      0.000      0.000       1.000      0.000      0.000      1.000
6.- P. Villareal Secrtary  SKcretary         0.250      0.300      0.100       0.300      0.050      0.000      1.000
7.- J. Peru                lIessenger        0.100      0.300      0.100       0.050      0.300      0.150      1.000
Total Quito llqtrzs                          1.005      1.400      0.650       1.500      0.800      0.955      6.210
Quito Branch
B.- 1. Naldonado Econoist  Analyst           0.000      0.900      0.200       0.000      0.000      0.000      L.O0
9.- M. Rios      Economist  Analyst          0.000      0.900      0.100       0.000      0.000      0.000      1.000
10.- A. Cardaas Business   Analyst           0.000      0.950      0.150       0.000      0.000      0.000      L.O0
11.- F. Perez    Economist  Analyst          0.000      0.000      0.050       0.700      0.250      0.000      1.000
12.- P. Yalecia  Student    Clerk            0.000      0.000      0.000       1.000      0.000      0.000      1.000
13.- M. Alvare   Programw   Analyst          0.000      0.000      0.000       1.000       .000      0.000      1.000
14.- Vacant                 Secre;ary        0.020      0.530      0.060      0.340       0.050      0.000      1.000
Total Quito Branches                         0.C20      3.090      0.560       3.040      0.300      0.000      7.000
Guayaquil Branch
15.- F Rodriquez Banker     Branch lqgr.     0.020      0.080      0.000      0.000       0.000      0.000      0.100
16.- 6. 6uerrero  Enginewr    anager         0.000      0.200      0.000      0.000      0.000       0.000      0.200
17.- H. Iacias   Business   Analyst          0.000      0.800      0.100      0.100       0.000      0.000      1.000
tE.- L. Ordonez  Business   Analyst          0.000      0.800      0.200      0.000       0.000      0.000      1.000
19.- M. Ramirez  Student    Clerk           0.000       0.800      0.200      0.000       0.000      0.000      1.000
20.- A. Hierro   Secretary  Secretary        0.0        0.40      0.100       0.020      0.000      0.000      1.000
Total Guayaquil                              0.060      3.520      0.600      0.120       0.000      0.000      4.300
Cuenca Branch
21.- J. Cuesta   Economist  Branch Nlgr.     0.030      0.160      0.000      0.000       0.000      0.010      0.200
22.- A. Vasquez  Economist  Analyst          0.000      0.900      0.100      0.100       0.000      0.000      1.000
Total Cuenca                                 0.030      0.960      0.100      0.100       0.000      0.010      1.200
Nanchila Branch
23.- E. Larrea              Branch Ngr.      0.060      0.320      0.000      0.000       0.000      0.020      0.400
24.- N. Laayza   Economist  Analyst          0.000      0.640      0.000      0.000       0.000      0.000      0.B00
Total Nachala                                0.060      0.960      0.090      0.080       0.000      0.020      1.200
banta Branch
25.- 4. Macias   Lawyer     Branch Ngr.      0.030      0.160      0.000      0.000       0.000      0.010      0.200
26.- R. Perez    Economist  Analyst          0.000      0.30       0.020      0.000       0.000      0.000      0.200
27.- C. Garay    Enginr   Analyst            0.000     0QB00       0.100      0.100       0.000      0.000      1.000
Total Nant.                                  0.030      1.140      0.120      0.100       0.000      0.010      1.400
A tato Branch
2B.- P. Yasquez             Branch Ngr.      0.060      0.240      0.000      0.000       0.000      0.000      0.300
29.- O.Velastegui Enginr   Analyst           0.035      0.560      0.070      0.000       0.000      0.035      0.700
Total Ambato                                 0.095      0.900      0.070      0.000       0.000      0.035      1.000
Grand Total                                  1.300     11.860      2.180      4.940       1.100      0.930     22.310



~~~~~ANNEX 6_ _
-36-                                     ale3
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIlRD  SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
FOPIIIAR Tin Utilization per Tasc and Function
Second Snestw 1994
lin persmon-yrs)
Number of                ProjKt    Project Statistics         Policy   TKhnical
FUNCTION                    Emplyes  Promotion  Evalution Supervision Information Policy Anal.Tech. Assist         Total
anagement 1st. Level             2.00        0.25        0.20        0.30        0.10        0.25       0.10        1.20
Nanaqcent 2nd. Level             2.00        0.40        0.60        0.15        0.05        0.20       0.60        2.00
Branch Nanagement                6.00        0.20        1.16        0.00        0.00.       0.00       0.04        1.40
Technical Analysts              13.00        0.04        7.13        1.17        3.08        0.25       0.04       11.71
Secretarial                      3.00        0.31        1.67        0.26        0.66        0.10       0.00        3.00
Clermcal                         2.00        0.00        0.90        0.20        1.00        0.00       0.00        2.00
Other Support                    1.00        0.10        0.30        0.10        0.05        0.30       0.15        1.00
Man-Year pei Task/Function      29.00        1.30       11.96        2.19        4.94        1.10       0.93       22.31
Ma) Nan-Year Task IFunction                  5.93       53.16       9.77       22.14        4.93        4.17      100.00
Projected Time Utilization for Second Seetr of 1996
Number of                Project    Project Statistics        Policy   Technical
FUNCTION                    Employees  Promotion  Evaluation Suprvision Inforation Policy Anal.Tech. Assist        Total
Management Ist. Level            2.00        0.25        0.20        0.30        0.10       0.25        0.10        1.20
Nanagement 2nd. Level            3.00        0.40        0.60        1.15        0.05       0.20        0.60        3.00
Branch Nanaqgent                 9.00        0.20        1.16        3.00        0.00       0.00        0.04        4.40
Technical Analysts              19.00        0.04        7.13        3.17        3.08       0.50        3.79       17.71
Seoretarial                      3.00        0.31        1.67        0.26        0.66        0.10       0.00        3.00
Clerical                         2.00        0.00        0.80        0.20        1.00        0.00       0.00        2.00
Other Support                    1.00        0.10        0.30        0.10        0.05        0.30       0.15        1.00
Nan-Year Task/Function          39.00        1.30       11.96        8.19        4.94        1.35       4.68       32.31
(1Z Nan-Year Task/Function                   4.02       36.71      25.32       15.29        4.19       14.41      100.00



- 37 -                        ANNEX 6
Table 4
Page 1 of 2
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
FOPINAR's Operational Resources Requirements
A. Human Resources:
FOPINAR Staff Personnel Time Distribution
Current:  11/84          Planned:  12/86
Employee-year (Z) time Employee-year (x) time
Task               per Task      per Task    per Task     per Task
Promotion                       1.30,0       5.87         1.300        4.02
Program Evaluation             11.860       53.16        11.860       36.71
Program Supervision             2.180        9.77        8.180        25.32
Data Management                 4.940       22.14        4.940        15.29
Policy                          1.100        4.93         1.350        4.1d
Technical Assistance            0.930        4.17        4.680        14.48
Total                22.310       100.0        32.310      100.0
Source: Interviews with Management, key employees and mission estimates.
B. FOPINAR Staffing Program:
a)   Before December 31, 1985
For the Quito headquarters:
One Project-Supervision Head
One Project Supervision Technical/Analyst
One for Technical Assistance
One branch Project Supervision Head
0.75 man-years for Technical Assistance at Quito
Headquarters
0.25 man-years for Policy Analysis and Procedures
b)   Before June 30, 1986
For branches!
One Project Supervision Head
One Project Supervision Technical/Analyst
One for Technical Assistance



- 38 -
ANNEX 6
Table 4
Page 2 of 2
d)   Before December 31, 1986
For branches:
One Project Supervision Technical/Analyst
One for Technical Assistance
The planned time allocation and staffing described before is
expected to allow FOPINAR a better development and control of its operations
and use of its total resources. The situation change will be made mostly by
transferring CFN employees from other areas and also by new hirings if
necessary.
The increase in personnel costs of these changes is estimated to
grow from a S/.20.1 million in 1984 to S/.28 million in 1985 and S/40.8
million by the end of 1986. These figures assume a 20% inflation rate p.a.



- 39 -
AtNNEX 7
Chart I
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
FOPINAR: '84 Staff Time Distribution
(os % of Total Person-Years)
Tech. Assist (4-2X)     Promotion (5.8%)
Policy Anal. (4.9%)
Information (22.1%)
Evaluation (53.2X)
Supervision (958%)
FOPINAR: '86 Staff Time Distribution
(as % of Totol Person-Years)
Promotion (4.0%)
Tech. Assist (14.5%)
Policy Anal. (4.2%)
Evaluotion (36.7%)
Information (1 5.3%C)
Supervision (25.3%)
Source: Mission Estimates



- 40                        ANNEX 7
Chart 2
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TRIRD SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
FOPINAR: Staff Distribution
Activities by Region (Man-Years)
6
5
4
3
2-
1 
H'qtrs    Quito      Guoy    Cuenca   Machalo    Manto   Ambato
Appraisal   M  Supervision            MIS       CM    Policy Analysis
=3 Promotion                                Technical Assistance
Source: Mission Estimates



- 41 -
ANNEX 8
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
FOPINAR: Real Disbursements Growth (%)
(in Annual Percentage Points)
so~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
50 _
40 -
30 -
20-
10-                                                        77
0-
-10 
-20-
-30- 
1981    1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988 Year
Source: Mission Estimates Historical    Proctions
ECUADOR: Inflation Rate (% p.a.)
50 -
40-
30 
20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
10
1981    1982   1983   t984   1985   1986   1987   1988
'81-84 Hist Data;  '85-88 ProjectIons
Source: Historical Data BCE; Projections are Mission Estimates.



-42  -                                           ANNEX  9
Page 1 of 8
ECUADOR
STAFF 4PPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
FOPIIIIR: LOAN PORTFOLIO WlOTH
("Nil i    of Sucra"l
(------Itrlcal D ta---                        ) 1----        Projections                       )
ASITIOINI                                   191         1992        1"3          14          1911        1           1997        19U
hal disburuent  rmoth                      n.r.        41.40      -22.80       53.90        15.00       12.00       10.00       10.00
Local inflatium rate                      14.70        14.75       48.20       20.00       20.00        20.00       20.00       20.00
Local price indn                           0.49         0.56        0.83        1.00         1.20        1.44        1.73        2.07
evalation rate                             n.r.        33.80       89.40       52.16        14.29       14.29       14.29       14.29
AAIl dealuation rate                       n.r.        25.93       35.41       33.14        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
End of yer nchlp  rats                    25.00        33.45       63.42       %.50        110.29      126.04      144.05      144.62
Avrage neuhae rate                        25.00        29.23       46.44       79.76       103.39      11B. 1      135.04      154.34
(---H-- listorical hat----------)  ( ---   ProjKctiou  ---                                   -)
PORTFOLI GROWNTI                            19I         1"2         193         1914         1995        1996        1967        1989
epayunt factorC)                           0.00         3.31        6.45       10.04       13.99        16.35       18.45       19.42
Lon losses provis. (1)                     0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00         1.00        1.00        1.00        0.09
a. Prior balance                           0.00      332.08       843.76     1372.62     2293.46     33.31        4660.31     6237.B3
b. Disbursuents                          332.08      539.57       617.36     1140.00     1573.20     2114.38      2799.98     3684A.0
C. epayeomts                               0.00        27.99       09.49      229.16      469.90      761.78      1151.08     1601.99
d. Loan losn provirLon                     0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00       33.54       46.60        62.39       73.29
e. Ending balace                         332.08      843.76      1372.63     2283.46     3354.32     4660.31      6237.83     8246.76
f. Avrage balnce                         166.04      597.92      1108.20     1920.04     2818.89     4007.31      5449.07     742.30
Neo portfolio balance                    0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00     1557.62     3402.00      5506.13     7963.bl
Nh  average balance                      0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00      779.91     2090.41      3799.27     5910."
Risk caiissioo                           0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00      111.26      299.43       542.61     M8.13
9. Anrage intent rate                     14.50        15.42       16.41       17.50       20.92       24.40        26.46       27.41
h. Loun portfolio rnmue                   24.08        90.66      191.95      319.91      596.89      977.78      1441.82     199.40
i. let disburseentslb-                   332.08      511.68       529.87      9?0.84     1104.40      1352.60     1639.90     2082.21
j. Ilt disburs. real growth              n.r           34.29      -30.26       43.52        1.04        2.06         1.03        5.91
k. Portfolio real grmwth(Z)              n.r          121.42        9.77       38.63       22.41        15.78       11.54       10.17
gs     - _mUinUzUS~22uz             =     azim. ==:sza inz2EU  =azm=m -23_s  sXZ223 32ro    uU Us                                 s
Ickoulatd provision                        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00       33.54       80.14       142.52      215.80
Ral klance ('84 Prices)                  677.71      1506.71     1653.77     2283.46    2m5.27       3236.33      3605.69     3993.94
Ral Disburs. ('4 Pricel                  677.71      963.52       743.91     1140.00     1311.00      1468.32     1613.28     1779.76
Musuuu                               SSS SnSSS_ sSaa.uu  uainumz    ulmzuua    uZuUM    mazuM a Nz_m .uauuziu  auZiU   Xs
Source: Mission Estimates



43 -                                        ANM.X  9
Page 2 of 8
FOPINAR. LOAN PORTFOLIO 3RO01N
(lillioas of Ul Dollarsl
{ lh~~~ata                  r         u   Ot ) (--  -- ProJKctionS 
ASSUIFl"IIS                               1991       1912        193        1994        I995        193        1997        19Y
bRl diduuruuent grouth                   n.r.       41.60      -22.80      53.88       15.00       12.00      10.00       10.00
Local inflatio  rate                   14.70       14.75       0.20       20.00       20.00       20.00      20.00       20.00
Local price Idu                          0.49        0.56        0.83       1.00        1.20        1.44       1.73        2.07
vuluatium rate                           n.r.       33.80       39.60      52.16       14.29       14.29      14.29       14.29
Real deval. rate                         n.r.       25.93      35.61       33.14        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00
End of year each. rate                  25.00       33.45      63.42       96.50      110.29      126.04     144.05      164.62
Average ech. rate                       25.00       29.23      48.44       79.76      103.39      119.16     135.04      154.34
TOTAL LOAN PORTFOLIO
(aillions of US Dollars)
bpaymnt factor (1)                       0.00        3.31        6.45      10.04       13.99       16.35      19.45       19.42
Loan loise  provis.(Z1                   0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00        1.00        1.00       1.00        0.89
a. Provious halmce                       0.00        9.93       13.30      14.22       20.70       26.61      32.35       37.19
b. Dic4urseoomts                        13.2P       18.46       12.74      14.29       1S.22       17.19      20.67       23.87
c. Rpayants                              0.00        0.95        1.93       2.87        4.53       6.45        9.52       10.33
d. Loan lossue provis.                   0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.32       0.39        0.46        0.47
s. Ending balance                       13.2B       25.22      21.64       23.66       30.41      36.97       43.30       50.10
f. Averg balance                         6.64       20.11       22.88      22.92       27.26      35.91       40.35       46.92
.LoUan portfolio revnner                 0.96        3.10       3.75        4.01        5.66       0.29       10.68       12.96
h. Ret disbrs. (t-cl                    13.29       17.51       10.92      11.42       10.68      11.43       12.14       13.49
i. Adjusted lon portfolio               13.29       30.79      41.71       53.13       63.91      75.26       97.40      100.B9
J. Cial. each. rate loses                0.00        5.57      20.07       29.44       33.37      39.26       44.07      50.77
k. Echie"p cuhission                                                                   1.93       2.39        3.73       4.53
1. Coulat exch. comission                                                               1.99       4.97        8.60       13.13
*. Not ehange loes                       0.00        5.57      20.07       29.44       31.39      33.39       35.47       37.64
n. Net eBch. lossU(                      0.00       16.09      46.12       55.42       49.19      44.37       40.S9       37.31
Source: Mission Estimates



ANNEX 9
44  -                                      Page 3 of 8
FOPIWEi MIOJECTED tlLhCE UNEETI
In sillims of hcrms
(- - - - - ---N- alcl Dcta--- - ---) 1---  - ProJeKtimis ----------
19,1       1912        1913        1916        1915        1934       1937        i'll
ASSETS
Cash                                     45.51       19.50      350.30      325.21      473.03      573.35     320.23      634.43
Interest RKdiV.                           7.01       20.00       50.2        15.17       11.OO     124.00      164.00      201.00
Currot Loans                             27.89       1.49       229.11     4W6.30       741.U      1151.03    101.19    2229.21
L.T. Nut Luns                           304.19      755.24     1127.37     1314.5      2592.3      3509.23    4635.94     4017.50
0ther Non-current                         1. 4        0.13        0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00
TOTAL  S8ET                             334.40      934.08    1757.53      2673.33     3915.29    5333.14     7222.11     9139.39
LIAIILITIEI
IR IDahrut turm loans                     0.00       19.00       3.00       31.00       *.00        11.0        11.00       HAD
Othen  Short Twro                         9.19       11.37      112.41      119.74        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00
IM  Long Tre luns                       140.        492.32     1044.73    1999.73      3045."     4351.3      4001.53     7441.34
Othwe Long Tore                                     134.59      161.07        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00
TOTAL LIAI!LITIE                        170.05      464.73     1433.21     2157.47     3133.99    4439.S3     N019.51     7749.36
NET NORTH
Paid-In Capital                         215.93      250.00      250.00      414.59      50.00       30.00      50.00       530.00
Retained Evnings                                      2.63        3.40       3.40        9.71      10.32       331.14      53.41
Not Earnings of the Tear                  0.42       14.46       71.00       96.33      101.52     154.24      221.39      272.42
TOTAL NET MOUTH                         216.35      247.31      324.40      514.37      731.30     923.51     1132.53     1390.03
TOTAL LIAIILITIES AND EGUITY            3U.40       934.09     1757.41     2673.14     3915.29    534.14      7222.11     9139.39
.E..M.S.     .m        .m....               . ..... ..mm_......  .......    urn...... .
.00        .00         .00        .00
Sumary Ituss
Total Portfolio                         332.08      343.75     1354.53    2213.45      3354.21    460.31      4237.13     1246.74
Average Portfolio                       166.04     537.92      1100.14     1819.99    2811.13    4007.24    5449.07       7242.29
Total Current Asets                      30.55      177."       430.14      35.13     1322.74    1353.93     254.17      3121.39
Year-nd Ecus Cash                                                                       70.15      ".11       243.40       34.24
Total Current Liabilitin                  9.19       37.37      220.41      157.74      HAD         1.00        111.00      11O.O
Total Lii. vith iS                      10.U        511.12     1012.73     2037.73    3133.99    4439.58    4069.5        770.36
Total FOPINW  Loans                     332.03      143.75     1354.53     2213.45    3354.21     4640.31    6237.33    3246.74
FOPI    LUans uith On Fund.             171.22      331.93      273.N0      245.72      220.22     220.73      140.25      497.40
IIRDI Total Luns Ratio                    0.48        0.41        0.10        0.89       0.93        0.95        0.93        0.94
IRDP/ Total Asst.                         0.42        0.55        0.2        0.74        0.10        0.33        0.34        0.35
Total Asets finaced with omn funds    225.54        422.24      474.30      63.10      711.30      923.51     1132.53    1390.03
Source:. Mission Estimates



4 5  -ANNEX  9
Page 4 of 8
FOPINAI PROJECTEO BALANCE SHEETS
Aountu in million of Sucros
- -   Historical Data           ------   ) ---------- Projactions --         -------------)
1981       1982       I13          1914        1985        1916        1917        [9"
IUATA MDRlTlOI                     ---RAT--- _-_-__---- ---  -__-___                                                    -
I DirKt Eoploym  (pormn-year)            14.00       14.00       18.00       19.00       24.00       29.00      30.00       31.00
IndirKct E4pl0ym  (pwron-yuars)          5.50        5.50        3.20        3.31        3.31        3.31       3.31        3.31
DirKctilndir.ct EApl.                     2.55        2.55        5.63        5.74        7.25       9.76        9.06        9.37
Total Eployuu  (perron-yearus)           19.50       19.50       21.20       22.31       27.31      32.31       33.31       34.31
Loan Portfolio/IEployps                  23.72       60.27       71.36      120.19      139.76      160.70     207.93      266.02
hal Lon Portfolio/uEployen               48.41      107.62       90.0       120.19      116.47      111.60     120.19      121.51
I rage Total Asut. Imillion S/.)        193.20      660.24     1345.81     2215.68    3294.56      4639.23    6M.64        8190.75
Total Other Loans                          .19      154.96      350.48      119.74        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00
i\nr. Othur Loans Total                   4.60       77.46      171.24       59.87        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00
Avwr. Net North                         106.18      241.93      295.96      420.39      648.84     952.44     1029.05     1261.29
Avor. Total Uabi.  us                   193.20      660.25     1345.85    2215.73      3294.57     4639.23    6292.63     8190.75
Aver.Liab./Avur. Ilt Worth                1.79        2.73        4.55        5.27        S.09       5.44        6.12        6.49
Curret Rtio                               8.76        4.76        2.96        5.45       15.03       21.07      29.39       35.48
Total Mdt/Equity                          1.79        3.49        5.42        5.19        5.01       5.01        6.39        6.57
Equity/Total khis                         0.56        0.29        0.18        0.19        0.20       0.17        0.16        0.15
Loan Portfolio/Total Assts t1)           95.94       90.33       77.18       95.40       05.67      96.9q       96.37       90.23
Cah & lnvestutg/Total Assets(ZJ          11.80        7.44       19.96       12.16       12.08       10.79      1I.36        7.49
Earning hkts/Total Assets. 1)            98.17       97.96       97.14       97.56       97.75       97.M9      97.73       97.72
Interest Recev.lTotal Assets!%)           1.83        2.14        2.96        2.44        2.S5       2.31        2.27        2.28
IMRD L.T. Loans/L.T. Portfolio            0.53        0.65        0.93        1.10        1.17       1.24        1.29        1.27
jiEl Loans/ FPIN  LoUans                  0.40        0.61        0.90        0.89        0.93       0.95        0.9"        0.94
Source: Mission Estimates



-46  -                                          ANNEX  9
Page 5 of 8
FOPINIS  PRUECTO  IlE  SThTEIUBU
(In Nillions of Sucroel
(-------Hlstorlcal Data----              --) I---- PIrojectlpis ----  --               -----
1"1         1992        1993        1984        191         1"6         M97         193
RATIOS L OTIER DATA
Spread for  Bank  (2)                      9.27        5.17        5.11         4.52        4.50        4.50        4.50        4.50
Loan Portfolio Yield to FOPIWAR (1)        6.23       10.24        11.30       12.9        16.32       19.90       21.96       23.11
Averaqe Intust rate(Z)                    14.30       15.42        16.41       17.S0       20.12       24.40       U.46        27.61
Average Yield m  lnvestwnts                2.63        3.44        6.39        16.00       20.12       24.40       26. 46      27.61
Avwrge Invstmnts                          22.7?       57.54      210.15       339.01      399.15      525.97      69.57       732.46
Other Loa's Inter-:t  ate (22             13.00       13.00        13.00       17.50       20.12       24.40       26.46       27.61
EKChange Risk fee                                                                          12.50       12.50       12.50       12.50
Exchange Risk Cuussfon Revenues            0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00       97.35      261.30      474.79      735.12
Fren Loan Portfolio                       10.34       60.20      124.32       236.23      586 Be      977.77     1441.32     1999.60
FrD  Invutmonts                            0.60        1.99       13.42       54.0        93.10      129.34      185.10      207.75
Total Incou                              10.94       62.19      137.74      290.31      669.98      1106.11     1626.93     2207.35
EXPENSES
Financial Expimnse
On Loans                                 6.64       27.75       75.42       166.63      291.13      429.80      584.32      749.49
On Othbr Loans                           0.11        1.05        1.99        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00
Spread or Banks                                                              0.00       126.95      190.33      245.21      325.90
Exchange Risk Ceission                   0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        97.35      261.30      474.79      735.12
Other Comissions                                                 0.76
Total Financial Expenses                  6.75       29.80       79.16       166.63     513.33       971.43     1304.31     180.S0
FinanCial Wargin                           4.19       33.39       59.59       123.69      154.65      234.69      322.62      396.65
Operating Expenses
vales                                    6.04       20.13       14.79       20.10       27.99       43.69        52.43       62.92
CFN allocatd Ovrhead                     1.15        3.09        2.76        3.46        4.56         6.02        7.95       10.U
AOrtizations                             0.40        0.4J        0.49        0.49        0.59         0.71        0.85        1.02
Others
Total Operating Exptns                     7.59       13.71       18.03       24.05       33.13       50.42        61.23       74.43
Operating EarninglLoss                    -3.40       19.67       41.55       9q.63       121.52      184.26      2b1.39      322.42
Other Incee                                                        1.69
Technical Atsistance Costs                                         1.54        1.46       20.00       30.00        40.00      50.00
NET EARIIINU/LOSS                         -3.40       19.67       41.70       91.17       101.52      154.26      221.3?      272.42
=UUUZ           %Ms     zUmZ1        S3U23      Uae=i    insUR2s   zSURS _U a RsEx 
Source: Mission Estimates



-47 -                                         ANNMC 9
Page 6 of 8
FOPIMIs PROJECTED INCOIIE STATENENTS
{In Nillions of Sucrms)
SnNRY An RATIOS
Finaicial IncmIAvg. Portfolio             6.59       10.56       12.52      15.95       23.77      27.60       29.86       30.48
Financial Costs/ Avg. Portfolio           4.07        4.90       7.10        9.16       18.23      21.75       23.Y"       25.00
Financial Sprai(%)                        2.53        5.68       5.42        6.80        5.49       5.86        5.92        5.48
(Opmr.ExpbmsnT.A)Avqg.PortfolioalI        4.57       2.33        1.78        1.40        1.88       2.01        1.86       ;.72
Profits/ Avg. Portfolio                  -2.05        3.35       3.79        5.39        3.60       3.85        4.06        3.76
Oprating Expmu l Av. Portfolio            4.57        2.33       1.64        1.32        1.13       1.26        1.12        1.03
Finma.CwtIAvwr.9dtlZ                      7.93        6.98       7.U4        9.20       18.95       22.03      23.49       24.65
Nmial Uagusl6 Employws                    0.31        0.53       0.63        0.69        0.17       1.29        1.46        1.66
RINl lynlO Employ.                        0.63       0.95        0.76        0.69        0.73       0.90        0.84        0.00
Not Profits/Avg. Equity                  -3.14       9.13       14.09       23.35       15.65      10.10       21.53       21.60
Real-Tr Profits/Equity(Z%               -15.55      -5.76      -23.01        2.79       -3.63      -1.59        1.28        1.33
Source: Mission Estimates



- 43 -                                           ANNEX 9
Page 7 of 8
FOPINAR: IBRD Subloan Conuuttments and Disbursauents
IAlounts in nillion:l
C        -Historical Data---         --- -----  (-          ProjeKtions -   -         -
1981       1992        1993        1994        1995        1986        1997        1999
FUPINAR Total disbursements  SI.        332.08      S39.57      617.36     1140.00     1573.20    2114.36    2790.99    3684.10
IBi disbsements SI.                     160.96      350.96      5B9.91       93.00     1134.26     1393.59    1737.99     1747.7B
IDR  disbwrunnbt   US$                    6.43       12.01       12. LO      12.45       10.97       11.79      12.97       11.32
I1RD culative disd  rseeonts SI.        160.86      511.92     1101.73     2094.73    3M22.9       4622.59    6360.57    9106.35
18iD cumnlative disburseuents 15S         6.43       19.44       30.62       43.07       54.04       65.93      79.70       90.03
Cuanl. Disbureu_ts Dnk Loanti US          6.43       19.44       20.00       20.00       20.00       20.00      20.00       20.00
Cuoul. Disiu_r ments lank Loan02 USS                             10.12       23.04       34.01       40.00      40.00       40.00
Cuanl. Disbursumnats Bank Loan43 US$                                                                  5.93       19.70      30.03
Curul. DisbursenJ ts Bank Loan61 5/.    160.96      350.96       75.56
Cuaul. Disbursemnts Bank Loanu2 SI.                             514.35      993.00     1134.26      707.59
Curl. Disburemnts Bank Loano3 S/.                                                                   686.01     1737.99    1747.79
Repayents n Bank Loan 61 SI.                                     19.00       39.00       39.00       38.00       39.00      38.00
Repaymnts on Dank Loan 42 SI.                                                                        50.00      50.00       50.00
Repayments on  ak Loan 03 SI.
Cunlat. Repaymnts mn Bank Loans SW.                              19.00       57.00       95.00      183.00     271.00      359.00
Balance on Dank Loan 01  SI.            160.86      511.82      568.38      530.38      492.38     454.38      416.38      379.39
Balance on Dank Loan 62 SI.               0.00        0.00      514.35     1507.35     2641.61     3299.20    3249.20    3199.20
Balance o Bank Loan *3 SI.                0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00     696.01     2424.00    4171.7N
Total Blances on Dank Loans  S/.        160.96      511.92     1092.73     2037.73     3133.99     4439.59    6059.58    7749.36
Avwrage blance on Bank Loan 41 S5.       90.43      336.34      540.10      549.39      511.38     473.3B      435.39      397.39
Average Balace on Bank Lo o2  Sl.         0.00        0.00      257.19     1010.35    2074.49     2970.40    3274.20    3224.20
Average Balance on Dank Loan 43  SI.      0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00     343.00     1555.01     3297.89
Average Balance on Total Dank Loans      90.43      336.34      797.29     1560.23     2585.96    3786.79     5264.58     6919.47
Cost of Dank Loan S1  51.                 6.64       27.75       44.56       45.32       42.19      39.05       35.92       32.78
Cost of Dank Loan 62  SI.                 0.00        0.00       30.96      121.30      248.94     356.45      392.90      36.90
Cost of Bank Loan 13  SI.                 0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00       34.30      155.50      329.79
Total Cost of Bank Loans  S/.             6.64       27.75       75.42      166.63      291.13     429.90      584.32      749.4U
Weighted Cost on Dank Loans  (2t          8.26        8.25        9.46       10.68       11.26      11.35       11.10       10.83
Source:  Hission Estimates



-49 -                                 ANNEX 9
Page 8 of 8
FOPINAR: Total Assets Distribution
'85- '88 (projections)
10 -
8-
%..~'    Cas -                                          netet
IU
2 7
_ X
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Finoncil Cost        Curvn !peotins   g Costs              pter  Lonfs
Source: Mission Estimates
2C  5
24a
22 -4
20 
1U 
163
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Fonancial CosCsrrent OpeansiLng termsLofits
Source: Mission Estimates



- 50 -
ANNEX 10
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
General Terms of Reference for Competitiveness Study
Terms of reference would be established to study competitiveness of
selected groups of products of SSEs currently under quantitative restrictions
(QR). The objective of such studies is to determine which products would be
competitive in absence of QRs. The consultants will determine such
competitiveness by appropriate comparisons of international and domestic
prices plus transport cost for the goods involved. If these comparisons show
that the QRs are redundant, investments to increase production of such
products would be eligible for financing expansion of capacity. In cases
where sectoral studies are inconclusive, or indicate that QRs are relevant
and not redundant, FOPINAR would also calculate ERRs for subloans above
US$100 thousand equivalent to determine if the products are eligible for
expansionary investment.-/ Criteria to establish priority for the selection
of products to be studied would be based on the identification of subsectors
by regions where one or more of the conditions mentioned in footnote two
below are present.2/
Given the varying conditions of production, transportation and
availability of raw materials and labor in different regions of the country,
the studies would be carried out for different regions. A more detailed
framework for the study has been agreed upon; terms of reference for specific
studies would be submitted for Bank approval before the Bank approves
disbursements for such purpose.
1/ The minimum acceptable ERR will be 12% in real terms.
2/ Quantitative import restrictions could be redundant in cases such as:
(a) availability of abundant and low cost raw materials as in the case
of food processing;
(b) prohibitive transport costs as in the case of furniture or
construction materials production;
(c) export industry;
(d) products made to order on the basis of individual specifications, as
in the case of the printing industry; and
(e) very strong local competition as in the leather goods sector.



- 5! -                            ANNEX 11
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
-timated Schedule of Disbursements Under the Proposed Loan
IBRD FY and                                         US$1000
Quarter Ending on                            By Quarter       Cumulative
IFY1986
March 31, 1986                                      300               300
June 30, 1986                                       300              600
FY1987
September 30, 1986                                  900            1,500
December 31, 1986                                 1,200            2,7U0
March 31, 1987                                    1,200            3,900
June 30, 1987                                     1,500            5,400
FY1988
September 30, 1987                                1,800            7,200
December 31, 1987                                 1,800            9,000
March 31, 1988                                    1,800           10,800
June 30, 1988                                     2,100           12,900
FY1989
September 30, 1988                                1,950           14,850
December 31, 1988                                 1,950           16,800
March 31, 1989                                    1,950           18,750
June 30, 1989                                     1,950           20,700
FY1990
September 1989                                    1,500           22,200
December 1989                                     1,500           23,700
March 1990                                        1,200           24,900
June 30, 1990                                       900           25,800
FY1991
September 1990                                      900           26,700
December 1990                                       900           27,600
March 1991                                          600           28,200
June 1991                                           600           28,800
FY1992
September 1991                                      600           29,400
December 1991                                       300           29,700
March 1992                                          300           30,000
Source: Mission Estimates based upon LAC Region's Disbursement Profile Series
as of 2/29/84.



- 52-
ANNEX 12
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Bank Monitoring of Project Implementation
The Bank, while monitoring the fulfillment of the project objectives
(main text, para 3.02), will pay special attention to the following
indicators (See the table below for expected levels):
Ci)   The rate at which new jobs are created under the project;
(ii)   The levels of permanent working capital finanring and their impact
on idle capacity;
{iii)   FOPINAR's adequacy of staff and procedures and levels of
administrative costs on outstanding portfolio;
(iv)   FOPINAR's debt-equity ratio and profitability;
(v)   FOPINAR commitments and disbursements; and
Cvi)   The proportion of FOPINAR disbursements outside the Quito and
Guayaquil industrial areas (provinces of Pichincha and Guayas)
(See Annex 1).
Expected Levels of Indicators Under the Project
1985     1986     1987      1988
Ci) Number of new jobs created             3,830    4,021    5,170    4,980
(ii) Idle capacity (Z)                                  42% or less
(iii) FOPINAR staff (in person-years)         27.3     32.3      33.3     34.3
Adm. Cost/Avg.portfolio (X)              1.3      1.3       1.2      1.2
(iv) Total Debt-Equity ratio                  5.0      5.8       6.4      6.6
Profitability/Equity in real terms       -4%      -2%      +1.0%    +1.3%
(v) FOPINAR commitments (USS million)       15.2     17.9      20.7     23.9
FOPINAR disbursements (USS million)   15.2       17.9      20.7     23.9
(vi) Proportion of FOPINAR disbursements
outside Quito and Guayaquil areas (Z) - ----60% or above
(see Annex 1)



- 53 -
ANNEX 13
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.    General Reports
Al. Banco Central del Ecuador - Boletin No. 589 (May-August 1984)
B.    Selected Reports
Bl. Ecuador Staff Appraisal Report, SSE Credit Project, May 23, 1980
(No. 2941-EC)
B2. Ecuador Staff Appraisal Report, Second SSE Credit Project, November 5,
1982 (No. 3941-EC)
B3. Ecuador: An Agenda for Recovery and Sustained Growth, October 5, 1984
(No. 5094-EC)
B4. Ecuador: Brief Review of the Financial Sector, April 1985, Industry
Department (Green Cover)
C.    Consultant's Reports
Cl. FOPINAR's Financial Condition and Projections, L. Toledo, December 26,
1984
C2. Survey of 101 SSE FOPINAR Borrowers, L. Toledo, R. Halverson, Feb. 5,
1985



C    0     L   0    M    B    I   A
ESMERALD/s 'ACAfcw                               ;DA
\ .. -IMBABUR                             C~d.1o..*
8.M. dr C.---                                                                A  P 0PICHIN(HA  bDNSo
Al Sbusrw    UTooS io             _       ~       ccc do o'Uc      RuuloNo
/__  \    /     A        iY S~~ ~~~~obu l_            Sc" SobXosloc del CSco9
Soho do CoNQS., ScONq..                                          he     
T.oo      LATACU~ 
S lelno  7 h     /      /   |      -T   ,_,           Otlo                        o \ o,.Oo."
c           /              ) 4I                                    .'  ^PASTAZA
\~ S      'R,o~   --        qba          <                        
.,ng.i~~~~.l  CVS frv,.N,-- -..
) l 30osv'<Q<s:I                               ECUADOR                   
1.   AZUAY4t   ls.           -tdn                        ;:1M:S ROADS         
' Endalssr  /  Z   Gircc
\o Ng. A                            E D                         R'.'S
t /)  53  >ioNebfO   \ 8  s:  ollosE  teos              ~~~P0551CAM REGIONS!
zocli ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    --ocoGDco.
SIc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
;: L_______            _                  Z OIA \ / GrwNtA
*'i'> -   sff    v y  >.1 Tolw \  ZAMORA                       P    ! tbunab, es         s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
X    _  J    Gb tono-ordu   : ,^ a,; ,,~.DAI WAR
tLQ>,2- > tr-mo7so    SOng9fl/     Mrss                              ,   ;;            ;L
I R   l7diopm                                                   b 4            _ea
L       4.mo10     



