Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
L&. SC6>3-J.C
Reprt No. P-4110-EC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$30 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A
THIRD SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
March 3, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



--..ECT EQUInVALENS
Currency Unit: Sucre (S/.)
October 1985            December 1985      February 1986
(Average Multiple Rates)    (Unified Rate)    (Unified rate)
US$1   =  S/.82             = S/.97           = S/.110
S/.1   =  Us$.01            = US$.O1          = US$.009
S/.100 =  US$12.19          = US$10.30        = US$9.09
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BCE             -  Banco Central del Ecuador
(Central Bank of Ecuador)
BNF            -  Banco Nacional de Fomento
(National Development Bank)
CENAPIA         -  Centro Nacional para la Promocion de la Pequena Indtistria
y Artesania
(National Center for Promotion of Small-Scale Industry and
Artisans)
CFN            -  Corporacion Financiera Iacional
(National Finance Corporation, a State-owned development
finance company)
DFC            -  Development Finance Company
FOPINAR        -  Fondo de Fomento para la Pequena Industria y la Artesania
(Development Fund for SSEs and Artisans)
MICEI           -  Ministerio de Industrias, Comercio e Integracion
(Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Integration)
SECAP          -  Servicio Ecuatoriano de Capacitacion Profesional
(Professional Training Service)
SSE            -  Small-Scale Enterprise
IDB            -  Inter-American Development Bank
USAID           -  United States Agency for International Development



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
T,D SMALL-SCALsE        Q      RDIT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Ecuador
Dmenficiarieu:       Private Small-Scale Enterprises (SSEs) involved in manu-
facturing, agro-industry, fisheries, tourism, and indus-
try-related services and marketing activities.
Amount:              US$30 million equivalent.
Ternm:               Repayable over 17 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 4 years of grace, at the Bank's standard varia-
ble interest rate and charges.
Relending Term:.   The Borrower, through the Central Bank (BCE) as its
agent, would onlend the proposed loan in sucres to CFN,
on the same terms as the Bank's loan, plus BCE's agency
fee of one-eighth of 1 percent p.a. and a variable
foreign exchange risk fee. CFN would onlend about
US$29.8 million equivalent of the loan proceeds to SSEs
through qualified financial intermediaries at variable
positive real interest rates, consistent with criteria
agreed with the Bank. CFN would receive a fee of 2.5
percent p.a., plus a 1 percent one-time commitment fee
for its subloans. Financial intermediaries would receive
a fee of 4-5 percent p.a., depending on the term of the
subloans. Variations in the interest rates charged to
beneficiaries would result in variations in the foreign
exchange risk fee paid to the Borrower through BCE. The
Borrower would assume the foreign exchange risk on the
Bank loan.
Project
Description:        The objective of the project would be to support employ-
ment-intensive and efficient industrial development, and
to encourage financial and industrial sector policy
reforms. It would continue Bank support to the Govern-
ment of Ecuador to develop further the SSE sector. To
achieve these objectives, resources totaling US$58.6 mil-
lion from the Bank, CFN, and financial intermediaries
would be made available to SSEs to finance fixed assets,
permanent working capital, and technical assistance
requirements. CFN would continue to manage a program of
technical assistance, and would use up to US$0.2 million
from the proposed loan to carry out studies related to
the economics and technical assistance needs of the SSE
sector.
This document has a restricted distributon and may be wed by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorintion.



- II -
Denefits:           The project would promote SSE development at the regional
level. It would help create about 18,000 new jobs,
principally outside the major urban centers of Quito and
Guayaquil. Further benefits would result from the asso-
ciated dialogue with the Government on resource mobiliza-
tion, interest rates, and industrial policy issues.
Risks:              Possible changes in FOPINAR's management could pose some
future risks to efficient project execution. Assurances
have, therefore, been obtained under the project that
FOPINAR would continue to be managed soundly. Also,
depending on the rate of economic recovery in Ecuador and
the potential negative short-term impact of Import
liberalization and interest rate reforms, demad for
project resources could slacken. However, even if loan
disbursements slowed somewhat, the project would remain
viable.
BEtimated Costs:                                      Local    oeign   Total
~-( US$ million) -
Investment Projects                       51.6     42.2       93.8
Technical Assistance to FOPINAR            0.0      0.2        0.2
Total Project Costs  Xl                   51.6     42.4       94.0
Bank                                       -       30.0       30.0
Financial Intermediaries                   5.3      -          5.3
SSE Beneficiaries                         28.0       7.2      35.2
CFN (through FOPINAR)                     18.3      5.2       23.5
Total                                    51.6     42.4       94.0
f/ The tax content of the project would be approximately US$8.5 million
(9 percent).



- iii -
lEstiated
Disburaemuts:
1986   1987  1988  1989   1990   1991   1992
US$ millions by Bank Fiscal Year
Annual              0.6    4.8    7.5    7.8    5.1    3.0    1.2
Cumulative          0.6    5.4   12.9   20.7  25.8  28.8   30.0
Rate of Return:  The minimum rate for subprojects would be 12 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 5546-EC dated March 3, 1986.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR REWONSCIBIION AND DEVELPlENT
REPORT  ND  CONDON OF TUE PRESIDNT OF TOE IBRD
To TER ENCUIVE DiRECTORS O  A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECJANOR FOR A
THERD SAL-SCALE ENTERPRISE CEIT PRJEVT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Ecuador for US$30 million equivalent to help finance a
Third Small-Scale Enterprise Credit Project. The loan would be repayable
over 17 years on a fixed amortization basis, including 4 years of grace, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate and charges. The Government,
through the Central Bank (BCE) as its agent, would onlend the loan proceeds
in sucres to the Corporacion Financiera Nacional (CFN) on the same terms as
the proposed loan, plus BCE's agency fee of one-eighth of 1 percent p.a. and
a variable foreign exchange risk fee. CFN, acting through FOPINAR, would
blend the loan proceeds with its own resources, and for 2 fee of 2.5 percent
p.a. plus a 1 percent one-time commitment fee, would rediscount these project
funds to eligible banks and development finance companies (DFCs), which would
onlend to final beneficiaries. Subloans would have a maximum maturity of 10
years and would be made on terms which would take into account the life of
assets to be financed and the repayment capacity of sub-borrowers. Subloan
interest rates would be variable as determined periodically by the monetary
authorities in a manner consistent with criteria agreed with the Bank.
Financial intermediaries would receive a fee of 4-5 percent per annum,
depending on the term of subloans. The Government would assume the foreign
exchange risk on the loan, but would cover such risk from the proceeds of the
interest rate charged to final beneficiaries, less intermediation fees and
the Bank's interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report on Ecuador, Report No. 5676-EC
entitled -Ecuador: Public Investment RevieW was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on December 16, 1985. The subsequent paragraphs reflect the
findings of that report as well as those of an earlier general economic memo-
randum, Report No. 5094-EC entitled -Ecuador: An Agenda for Recovery and
Sustained Growth" distributed on October 5, 1984. Annex I provides the main
social and economic indicators.
3.        Ecuador entered the 1970s as one of the least developed Latin
American countries. In 1967, petroleum was discovered in Ecuador's Amazon
region and in 1972 the country became a net oil exporter.  In 1973 world oil



- 2 -
prices quadrupled and Ecuador's export earnings doubled. During the 1970s,
Ecuadorian income and output expanded rapidly, perhaps at a rate unprece-
dented in its history. By 1983 per capita GNP had risen to US$1,430, placing
Ecuador firmly among the Bank's middle-income borrowers.
4.        Between 1960 and 1980, much social progress was made.  Life expec-
tancy increased by ten years; death and infant mortality rates dropped by
more than 40 percent; and school enrollment expanded rapidly. By 1980
virtually all children were attending primary school, and a third of the
relevant cohort attended schools of higher education. Today's citizens are
better educated, in better health, and better fed than at any other time in
Ecuador's history. Nevertheless, because of the low level from which Ecuador
started, Ecuador's social indicators lag behind those of other countries with
similar levels of per capita income. Moreover, the benefits of growth were
not evenly distributed. While a sizeable middle class emerged, about 40 per-
cent of the urban and 65 percent of the rural population live in absolute
poverty.
5.        Highly concentrated ownership of productive resources and unequal
access to public services explain much of Ecuador's skewed income distribu-
tion. For example, 60 percent of the country's farmers derive their liveli-
hood from only 11 percent of the arable land.  Their farms are small-less
than 5 hectares-and tend to be of the poorest quality.  Low levels of educa-
tion, primitive cultivation techniques, scarce use of technical inputs, and
limited access to credit and to commercial marketing channels contribute to
low farm productivity and incomes. But uneven distribution of the oil income
also accounts for the disparities in social conditions. Thus, during the
1970s only about a quarter of total public investment was channeled to the
rural areas, where 56 percent of the population and most of the poor live.
6.        For the years 1982-83, Ecuador not only suffered from declining
international oil prices and suspension of commercial bank lending, but also
from the ravages of the Nino current which practically wiped out cocoa
exports (a major source of foreign exchange), severely damaged the country-
side, and forced the country to import foodstuffs. Normally dGmestic produc-
tion meets the country's food needs. Per capita income dropped in 1982, and
in 1983 it dropped by more than 5 percent, resulting in increased unemploy-
ment and severe liquidity problems for Ecuador's financial and industrial
sectors. Ecuador has only begun to emerge from this severe recession; real
GDP grew by about 3-3.5 percent yearly in 1984-85.
The Impact of Petroleum
7.        While the immediate causes for Ecuador's economic downturn in 1982
may be traced to falling oil prices and suspension of commercial bank
lending, these factors only exacerbated pending problems, as the country had
embarked on an unsustainable economic course. After the initial burst of oil
exports in 1973, the country's volume of exports remained practically
constant; export earnings increased mainly because the international price of
oil went up, and the country's income increased because the terms of trade
turned sharply in its favor. By 1980, the increased income made available
since 1975 by relatively higher export prices was adding 8 percent to
Ecuador's yearly income. The increased expenditures of the public sector-



- 3 -
through which much of this income passed--were partially responsible for the
improvement in the nation's living standards and physical infrastructure, as
well as for accelerated industrial production.
8.        Unfortunately, this income also had three adverse effects.  First,
it slackened efforts to collect taxes from the non-oil portion of the eco-
nomy. Thus, while petroleum revenues doubled relative to GDP between 1973
and 1983. non-oil taxes, including social security contributions, fell from
17 percent of GDP in 1973 to 10 percent in 1982, and total revenues, relative
to GDP, stagnated.
9.        Second, because oil taxes were painless for the Ecuadorian con-
sumer, there was an incentive to earmark them for various subsidies--imports,
housing, roads, and education--and to keep domestic petroleum product prices
frozen at the 1972 level. By 1980, the Ecuadorian consumer was paying only
US$0.10 for a gallon of gasoline. The subsidy implicit in the difference
between world prices and domestic prices was equivalenc to about 8 percent of
1980 GDP.
10.      Third, the abundance of revenues and their ease of collection
diminished incentives to control the growth of public expenditures. Current
expenditures went up from 16 percent of GDP in 1973 to 24 percent in 1982.
Public sector savings decreased to such an extent that the public sector sur-
plus of 1973 (equivalent to 3 percent of GDP) became a deficit equivalent to
8 percent of GDP by 1982. Because of its status as an oil exporter, Ecuador
was able to finance this deficit abroad with ease, but at a price. The
public external debt more than doubled between end-1979 and end-1983; econo-
mic adjustment was deferred until Ecuador found its access to foreign funds
severely limited. The abundance of oil income also affected Ecuador's
exchange rate, allowing it to appreciate in real terms without causing finan-
cial problems. This made imports cheaper for Ecuadorian industrialists and
consumers, but it also meant that non-oil exports suffered. With the
important exception of shrimp, non-oil exports grew slowly in volume after
1974. Like the public sector, the external sector would also have encoun-
tered problems after 1980 had it not been for recourse to large external
borrowings.
11.       Monetary policies complemented both exchange rate and fiscal poli-
cies. Negative real interest rates led to a decline of financial savings
relative to GDP. But Ecuador's financial system expanded credit rapidly in
nominal and real terms, despite poor domestic resource mobilization, because
foreign banks provided the Central Bank with increased resources. The
external sector, with a fixed exchange rate, gave vent to what otherwise
would have been inflationary pressures by increasing the supply of goods to
the economy through imports. Heavy external borrowing provided the needed
foreign exchange. Financial institutions, like the public and external sec-
tors, became in effect dependent on petroleum (through the Central Bank) and
ultimately on external borrowing, through guarantees they provided their
clients on foreign loans. They too encountered severe problems when, in
1982, petroleum receipts stagnated and Ecuador's access to external funds
became severely limited.
Recent Events
12.       During 1981/82, the terms of trade turned against Ecuador as oil
prices began to decline. Export earnings fell by about 8 percent in 1982.
Despite a reduced volume of imports, the current account deficit of the



- 4 -
balance of payments exceeded US$1 billion, about 9 percent of GDP. To
finance it, the authorities borrowed short-term and used up about US$460 mil-
lion of the country's international reserves, almost depleting them in the
process. When the economic downturn worsened in 1983, Ecuador had to manage
with severely limited financial resources as foreign banks restricted their
net, new lending to US$430 million. To make matters worse, the Nino
current's climatic shifts, which had inflicted some damage in 1982, continued
to ravage the countryside with floods.
13.       The authorities' attempts to deal with the crisis were, for the
most part, prompt and in the right direction. First, they dealt with the
exchange rate. In 1982, the sucre was devalued for the first time since 1970
and thereafter was adjusted frequently. It now stands at a rate which is as
attractive for exporters as it was in 1970, before the oil boom allowed it to
appreciate. Second, they dealt with the liquidity crisis by temporarily pro-
hibiting or limiting many imports and renegotiating principal on the external
private and public debt. Negotiations with the commercial banks for a multi-
year rescheduling covering maturities falling due in 1985-1989 were concluded
in December 1985; a Paris Club agreement was reached in April 1985 to resche-
dule official debt falling due between 1985-1987. Temporary import restric-
tions were eliminated as the liquidity of the Central Bank improved.
14.       A fiscal austerity program was put in place in 1983 in cooperation
with the IMF. The public sector deficit was reduced from about 8 percent of
GDP in 1982 to about 1.4 percent in 1983 and virtually eliminated in 1984.
Ecuador also compliet with the rest of the IMF program. Partly as a result,
inflation was more than halved in 1984, to about 23 percent; the balance of
payments was practically brought into equilibrium, and growth resumed. An
IMF program-a one year SDR 105.5 million stand-by-for 1985/1986 was just
completed. Under this program, a public sector surplus equivalent to about 2
percent of GDP for 1985 was achieved by raising revenues and holding down
expenditures. The exchange rates of the official and intervention markets
were also unified, and inflation, which was about 23 percent for the year,
fell to an annualized rate of about 14 percent during the last half of 1985.
15.       Also, decisions taken prior to the crisis began to bear fruit.
Owing to positive results of exploration efforts undertaken as far back as
1980, and the implementation of a secondary recovery program, oil production
and oil exports rose over the past three years. Foreign contracts for conti-
nued exploration have been signed. Thus, Ecuador appears to be in a
reasonable position to offset pactially the more drastic declines in oil
prices that ocurred in early 1986, through further increases in oil produc-
tion.
Outlook
16.       The present Administration which took office in August 1984, is the
second one to be democratically elected after nearly a decade of military
rule. The Governmernt's economic philosophy essentially supports the market
as an efficient resource allocation mechanism, with minimal Government inter-
vention in economic affairs. It sees the longer-run development of Ecuador
supported by vigorous, export-oriented agricultural and industrial growth,
and recognizes the strategic importance of appropriate relative prices,
including exchange and interest rates and import tariffs. The Government is



also committed to strengthening private sector development, curtailing the
role of public investment in activities which could be privatized,
encouraging foreign investment, and improving the efficiency of public
investment and operations.
17.       Since coming to office, the Administration has taken a number of
important and politically difficult corrective measures: it has devalued the
sucre again and unified the multiple official exchange rate markets; it
raised domestic petroleum products prices; it improved the interest rate
structure; it successfully obtained a multi-year rescheduling of its external
debt; it took steps to liberalize trade; and it moved to free prices in the
agricultural sector. It also mounted a campaign to attract foreign
investment and subscribed to several investment guarantee schemes, including
MIGA. These are important measures in the right direction; they should
encourage more efficient utilization of recources and stimulate exports,
agricultural production and domestic savings and encourage foreign
investment.
18.       Because of the devaluations of the sucre in the past two years,
which have raised the price of oil in sucre terms, oil exports amounted to 18
percent of GDP in 1985. Virtually all oil income accrues to the public
sector. Despite the recent sharp drop in oil prices, the oil sector will
continue to be essential to the economy. Adjustment to the loss of income
(estimated to be close to half a billion dollars in 1986) will require faster
shifts to non-oil sources of exports and fiscal revenues over the medium
term. However, in the short run, oil still represents over half of current
exports. Restricted fiscal revenues will require tightening of already
frugal fiscal policies. An adequate flow of resources to the private sector
from both domestic and foreign sources will be essential to support further
recovery from the recent recession. Indeed, a public sector surplus may well
be required to ensure that the private sector can expand its activities.
This delicate balance between public and private sector needs underscores the
importance of good public sector management. The Bank's recent public
investment review found Ecuador's ongoing program generally sound but
recommertded that petroleum exploration and production be accelerated, and
that no sizeable new projects be begun for a few years. An update of the
program, reflecting reduced foreign exchange earnings and fiscal revenues,
will be needed.
£9.       Ecuador will almost surely continue facing a shortage of foreign
exchange in the next few years, given recent oil price declines. The Bank's
most recent economic projections (see Annex I) were made on a higher oil
price expectation, and were consistent with both the Government's and the
IMF's programs. The Government, along with both the Bank and the IMF, is now
reviewing Ecuador's revised prospects. In view of the far-reaching economic
effects of the most recent drop in oil prices, both the Bank and the INF have
scheduled economic missions to Ecuador for February-March 1986, to undertake
further analysis.  Nevertheless, it is already clear that Ecuador must likely
quicken and deepen its adjustment program, while marshalling further external
funds to assist its response to the oil price drops. Hence, the Government,
the Bank, and the IMF are discussing with Ecuador's commercial creditors the
possibility of further financing. Because of Ecuador's determined efforts to
adjust its economy--and its creditors' positive responses so far --we believe
Ecuador remains creditworthy for Bank lending.



- 6 -
PART 11 - BANK GROUiP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
20.       Bank Group operations in Ecuador date back to 1954 when a loan was
made for a first highway project. Including the recently signed Agriculture
Sector and Public Sector Management Loans, the Bank and IDA have extended 34
loans and 6 credits to Ecuador totalling US$733.6 million net of cancella-
tions. As of September 30, 1985, US$455.3 million of this amount had been
disbursed. The IFC has invested in five firms in Ecuador, including a large
textile company, a sugar mill, a cement company, a mining enterprise and a
development finance company. As of September 30, 1985, commitments for these
operations amounted to US$28 million, of which IFC held US$6.7 million.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
operations as of September 30, 1985.
21.       Execution of Bank Group financed projects has often been hampered
by weaknesses in Ecuador's implementation capacity, reflecting the insuffi-
ciency of the country's public sector managerial and technical resources-a
constraint that is still a serious obstacle to Ecuador's economic and social
development. In recent years, the Government and Bank staff have worked
together to step up disbursement of Bank loans. Among other initiatives, a
Special Action Program for the country provided for revolving funds in five
projects. As a result of these general efforts, disbursements rose from
US$26 million in FY83 to US$42 million in FY85. The country has set up a
monitoring committee for all externally financed projects which should rein-
force efforts to accelerate disbursements. The Bank plans annual portfolio
implementation reviews to detect and resolne specific obstacles to execution
of Bank-financed projects; the first took place in November 1985.
22.       Bank and IDA lending in Ecuador was originally concentrated in
transport and power, where there were substantial bottlenecks to be over-
come. To date, approximately 26 percent of Bank Group lending has been for
infrastructure. Seven of the nine loans and credits extended for transport
were to improve the country's road network and two were to help finance the
expansion of the port of Guayaquil. Three power operations aimed at
improving generation and distribution facilities in Quito. The first live-
stock development loan, approved in FY67, marked the beginning of a diversi-
fication in the Bank Group's lending program away from infrastructure. Since
then, the Bank Croup has made ten other loans and credits for agriculture and
fisheries, seven loans to support industrial development, and two for pre-
investment studies. These productive sector loans comprise 58 percent of
total Bank lending to Ecuador. Bank Group support for social sectors-educa-
tion, water supply and urban development--now accounts for about 16 percent
of total Bank lending.
23.       Turning to the future, the Bank strategy is to support, in close
cooperation with the IMF, Government initiatives in macroeconomic and sector
reforms over the medium term. This will be achieved through a series of
sector and project loans aimed principally at supporting policy improvements
in energy, agriculture, and industry, and developing social and economic
infrastructure. In addition to the design and adoption of adequate sector



-7-
policies, Bank lending will emphasize the generation of exports and employ-
ment. Besides the Small Scale Enterprise Credit recommended in this report,
for the near term the Bank is preparing industrial finance, power engineer-
ing, agricultural credit, and water supply operations. In addition to Bank
lending, the IFC is analyzing several possible operations in agribusiness,
fisheries, petroleum refining, hotels and merchant banking.
24.       Substantial development financing has also been provided to Ecuador
by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the US Agency for International
Development (USAIb) and, to a lesser extent, by other bilateral sources. IDB
has been the single largest lender to Ecuador. Loans outstanding (including
undisbursed) from IDB to the country as of December 31, 1985, totalied about
US$1.2 bill'on equivalent.  Past IDB lending has been concentrated in the
power, agriculture, industry and transport fields. Most of IDB's loans to
the country have come from the Fund for Special Operations and normally carry
concessional terms. It is likely that IDB will remain Ecuador's major devel-
opment lender in the immediate future with power, agriculture and socially-
oriented projects continuing to account for a large share of its lending pro-
gram. By December 1985, USAID had about US$158 million in outstanding loans
to Ecuador (including undisbursed). Its program concentrates on urban devel-
opment, agriculture, health and the private sector. In addition to maintain-
ing close contact with USAID, IDB and other aid agencies to assure compatibi-
lity of programs, Bank staff have undertaken a full public sector investment
review which could serve as the basis for a Consultative Group Meeting of
Ecuador's creditors, possibly by end-1986.
25.       As of December 31, 1984, the public and publicly-guaranteed medium-
and long-term external debt of Ecuador (including undisbursed) totaled about
US$7.7 billion, of which US$1.1 billion was undisbursed. Of the former sum,
the Bank group was owed 4.2 percent; the IDB 12.2 percent and USAID 1.3 per-
cent. Through 1988, the IBRD share of Ecuador's outstanding and disbursed
public foreign debt is expected to remain below 7 percent, and the IBRD share
of total public foreign debt service is projected to remain about 5 percent.
PART III - THE INDUSIAL AND FINANCIAL SECrORS
A. The Indtrial Sector
Structure and Growth of Manufactring
26.       Manufacturing remains at an early state of development.  Activities
such as food processing, textiles and wood processing still account for about
three-quarters of manufacturing value added. Most production is sold in the
domestic market and is highly dependent upon imported inputs. The sector has
contributed about 18 percent of CDP in recent years, and in 1983 employed
about 320,000 workers (11 percent of the work force). In line with overall
rapid economic expansion, manufacturing growth averaged 9.5 percent p.a. in
real terms between 1972-1982. However, with the arrival of economic reces-



- 8 -
sion, real growth in manufacturing value added decreased by 1.9 percent in
1983 and by about 2 percent in 1984. During 1985, economic growth resumed,
led by increases in oil and agricultural output, and manufacturing grew by an
estimated 2.5 percent. In the future, best prospects will likely be for
those industries with low indebtedness, that are based largely on local
inputs, and that serve export markets, or local markets for basic consumer
items. Small-Scale Enterprises (SSEs) generally incorporate several of these
characteristics.
S-all-Scale Enterprises
27.       Structure and Characteristics.  SSEs are defined as firms engaged
in industry, agro-industry, fishing, tourism, and related industrial services
and marketing activities, with fixed assets of less than US$350,000 equiva-
lent, excluding land and buildings. As official statistics on SSEs provide
information only on the general structure and charanteristics of the SSE
sector, a survey of 101 SSEs was carried out by the Bank's appreisal
mission. This survey provides further insight into the situation and
performance of SSEs, although it could be expected that SSEs that have
recently carried out investment projects, as is the case for the surveyed
SSEs, would show a healthier growth pattern than the average SSE. Overall,
SSEs have shown great potential for job creation. In 1980, some 8,000 small
firms and 200,000 artisans accounted for 12 percent of manufacturing output
and employed about 40 percent of total manufacturing labor. Moreover, the
survey revealed that in 1982-84, SSEs created employment at an average cost
per job of US$1,400-a fraction of the industrial sector average. SSEs are
widely distributed geographically, but are concentrated in the food, wood
processing, leather, garment, and light metalworking subsectors, where
activities are mostly labor intensive and generally have not required
large-scale production. They also utilize intermediate products that are
less costly and have a higher local content than the rest of industry. The
main markets of SSEs are local urban centers. Strong market segmentation
prevails, owing to high transport costs, underdeveloped commercial
infrastructure, and cultural differences among the country's various
geographical areas. This market segmentation has prevented greater
competition among SSEs. Better marketing infrastructure and information
would thus promote efficiency among SSEs, and would be supported under the
proposed loan.
28.       Performance of SSEs and Capacity Utilization.  Despite the recent
economic recession, SSEs have enjoyed satisfactory growth, mainly because of
their generally low foreign indebtedness and low reliance on imported
inputs. The survey of SSEs reveals that in 1983 and 1984, annual real growth
rates averaged 13 percent for sales revenues, 17 percent for profits, 15 per-
cent for employment, 9.5 percent for total assets, and 17 percent for equity;
all satisfactory. Despite this positive record, however, idle capacity has
remained high, averaging about 42 percent in mid-1984. This excess capacity
arose mainly from (i) scarcity of credit, especially for working capital;
(ii) difficulty by SSEs in obtaining imported inputs; and (iii) the high
market segmentation. To encourage higher capacity utilization, greater sup-
port to SSEs is required through provision of (i) incentives (including long-



-9-
term financing at reasonable terms) to purchase existing idle capacity for
more productive uses; (ii) more timely and adequate Information to SSEs on
capacity utilization to improve the basis for investment decisions; and (iII)
sufficient working capital financing to allow more intensive use of fixed
assets. Such support would be provided under the proposed project.
29.       Financi  and Financial Performance.  In the past, SSEs have faced
considerable difficulties in galning access to commercial financing. They
have had to rely until recently almost entirely on the official credit lines
offered by the National Development Bank (Banco Nacional de Fomento - BNF)
and by commercial banks using a Central Bank rediscount facility (Fondos
Financieros) (para. 37) created to assist small firms. These credits carry a
maximum maturity of two years and require SSEs to run the risk that short-
term debt used to finance fixed assets may not be rolled over. The only
longer-term credit available for SSEs is offered by the Netional Finance Cor-
poration (Corporacion Financiera Nacional - CFN) through its SSE Development
Fund (Fondo de Fomento para la Peguena Industria y la Artesania - FOPINAR)
established in 1980 with Bank support (para. 51). Owing to inflation, total
official credit received by SSEs decreased by 29 percent la real terms
between 1981-1983. This reduction has prevented more adequate replacement of
obsolete equipment and more effective use of installed capacity. Indications
are, however, that when adequate financial support is provided, SSEs can
achieve satisfactory growth and maintain financial health. The survey showed
an average debt-to-equity ratio of 1.1:1 and liquidity (current ratio) of
1.4:1, both satisfactory.
30.       Tecbni cal Assistance. The main organizations providing technical
assistance (TA) to SSEs are the provincial Small Industrialists' Associa-
tions, coordinated by a Federation in Quito; the Professional Training
Service (Servicio Ecuatoriano de Capacitacion Profesional - SECAP) under the
Ministry of Labor; and the National Center for Promotion of Small-Scale
nudustry and Artisans (Centro Nacional para la Promocion de la Peguena Indus-
tria y Artesania - CENAPIA) established by the Ministry of Industry Commerce
and Integration (MICEI) to support firms registered under the SSE and Artisan
Incentive Laws. Generally, efforts by these organizations to deliver tech-
nical assistance to SSEs have been scattered and uncoordinated. Hence, since
1981, FOPINAR has identified various prospective sources of professional
assistance and sought their cooperation in sponsoring TA programs. As a
result, commercial banks, technical sales representatives and materials sup-
pliers have been mobilized to advise SSEs, and FOPINAR's offices have
acquired increasing importance as points of design and coordination of TA
activities from several sources. Two-thirds of FOPINAR clients have received
TA over the past two years, mainly from SECAP and private consultants or sup-
pliers, and mainly in the fields of technology and know-how, and accounting
and finance. Given the survey's indication of a continuing strong demand for
TA, FOPINAR plans to provide further TA support to SSEs.
31.       SSE Growth Prospects.   Prospects for SSEs look promising over the
medium term. First, overall prospects for the Ecuadorian economy are
positive, mainly due to better economic policies. Second, sales growth



- 10 -
prospects for SSEs seem favorable, owing to their emphasis on producing items
unlikely to be subject to external competition, such as construction mate-
rials and furniture, processed foods, and printing industry items. Such
goods are protected by high transport costs, low-cost raw materials, or cus-
tom production. Finally, while continued adjustment of the Ecuadorian eco-
nomy would put pressure on some SSEs in terms of stronger competition, both
in price and quality, the solid capital structure and liquidity evident among
SSEs should enable them to weather adverse conditions.
Industrial Policies
32.       Industrial policies--tariff protection for domestic production,
liberal exoneration of taxes and import duties for use of imported capital
and raw materials, and subsidized credit--have not significantly differentia-
ted in intent between SSEs and larger firms. In practice, however, they
might have discriminated against SSEs, which generally have (i) had more
limited access to subsidized credit; (ii) demonstrated relatively low capital
intensity; and (iii) purchased their inputs mostly in the domestic market,
unaffected by benefits from import duty exonerations. Only one-fourth of all
SSEs have registered for benefits under the Industrial Incentive Law and only
about 10 percent of registered SSEs actually used available benefits in 1983.
33.       Much of the current structure and vulnerability of the manufac-
turing sector is a consequence of past policies which: (i) favored import
substitution over exports, through high tariffs on final goods, low tariffs
for capital goods and inputs, and widespread use of non-tariff import res-
trictions; (ii) provided tax and tariff exonerations for machinery imports
and subsidized credit for investment in fixed capital; and (iii) permitted a
concentration of production, both geographically and in terms of number of
firms, through a discretionary project-by-project application of incentives.
34.       The Administration has begun formulating a new industrial develop-
ment strategy aimed at fostering efficient import substitution, export expan-
sion, and more intensive use of domestic resources. Accordingly, important
policy decisions have been taken in the areas of industrial and trade poli-
cies. First, unification of the exchange rate represents a major step in
eliminating basic distortions hindering a healthier industrial sector. The
adjustment and maintenance of the exchange rate at a realistic real level-as
agreed by the Government with the IMF--provides the basis for a restructuring
of the other instruments of protection for domestic production as well as for
export promotion. Second, new regulations for the Industrial Incentive Law
were issued in January 1985 to simplify and streamline industrial incentives,
mainly through (i) reducing income tax exonerations, especially for sectors
with widespread idle capacity; (ii) granting tax benefits based on export
performance; and (iii) establishing time limitations on tariff exonerations
for raw material imports. These reforms complement the measure adopted in
March 1983, by which tariff exonerations on capital goods were reduced by 35
percent. Third, the Government has begun to replace quantitative restric-
tions by tariffs. The first step was completed in March 1985, by eliminating



- 11 -
import prohibitions that had been introduced in 1982, which in value amounted
to about 16 percen: of 1981 total imports. Another step was taken in January
1986, when about 20 percent of remaining import prohibitions were replaced by
tariffs. Furthermore, the Government has begun to reduce the number of
industrial inputs subject to prior authorization for import. Finally, in an
initial attempt to lessen discrimination against exports within different
manufaeturing activities, a revised import tariff structure was introduced in
January 1986. Import tariff peaks and tariff dispersion have been reduced so
that over 75 percent of imported commodities now have tariffs of 70 percent
or less.
B. The Financial Sector
Institutional Structure and Development
35.       The main institutions in Ecuador's financial system are the Central
Bank (BCE); 32 private commercial banks with about 285 branches; 3 state
banks-the National Development Bank (BNF), the Housing Bank (BEV), and the
Ecuadorian Development Bank (BEDE)-and 13 finance corporations, including
the public National Finance Corporation (CFN). There are also 11 savings and
loans associations; more than 25 insurance companies; various currency
exchange offices; and securities markets in Guayaquil and Quito. The Social
Security Institute (IESS) is also a major depository for financial savings.
As a group, commercial banks dominate Ecuador's financial system, and their
outstanding loan portfolio represents 75 percent of total lending to non-bank
borrowers.
36.       Policy-making agencies are the Monetary Board, BCE, and the Super-
intendency of Banks. The Monetary Board sets exchange rate, interest rate,
and other financial policies which are implemented by BCE and the Superin-
tendency of Banks. BCE also provides credit to financial intermediaries,
including special discount credit lines. The Superintendency of Banks super-
vises and audits financial intermediaries and publishes statistical informa-
tion on the banking system.
37.       Principal vehicles for BCE's indirect lending have been the
Financing Funds (Fondos Financieros), which were established in 1973 to
develop and strengthen specific activities that the Government wished to
encourage. There are currently five Funds (three financed by BCE funds, one
by Treasury budget funds, and one by foreign loans channeled by BCE), includ-
ing one that provides medium-term loans to SSEs. The Funds financed by
domestic resources grant mostly short-term credit with a maximum term of two
years, and interest rates to final borrowers that are about the lowest avail-
able.
38.       The financial system grew rapidly in the 1970s, mainly because bank
ownership granted access to profitable BCE credit lines and because guaran-
tees for foreign loans to the private sector grew rapidly and appeared pro-
fitable. Additionally, negative real interest rates charged to final
borrowers, and attractive margins and commissions provided to intermediaries,



- 12 -
stimulated lending growth. However, such situation provided little incentive
for financial institutions to mobilize domestic resources on their own, and
they became increasingly dependent on BCE credits and foreign borrowings for
resources. The structurally flawed financial system which thus arose became
all the more fragile because easy granting of bank licenses led to the esta-
blishment of many small, inefficient and undercapitalized banks. Between
1973 and 1984 the number of private banks increased from 21 to 32 and finance
companies from 2 to 13. The system suffered grave liquidity problems begin-
ning in 1983 as foreign resources dw'ndled and economic conditions deteriora-
ted. These factors, combined with devaluation of the sucre, diminished the
ability of borrowers to meet dollar-denominated obligations guaranteed by the
banks. To help financial intermediaries, the Government carried out a
"Sucretization" program under which BCE assumed foreign debts and participa-
ting institutions became obligated to repay BCE in sucres over a period of up
to seven years. While this program solved the immediate liquidity crisis,
one of its legacies was that BCE credit in 1983 represented about 35 percent
of the commercial banks', and up to 60 percent of finance companies' port-
folio.
Ifttereat Rate Policy and Resource Ibbilization
39.       Official interest rates are established periodically by the Mone-
tary Board. Judged by international standards, Ecuador has, in the past,
been quite unsuccessful in mobilizing domestic financial resources. A com-
parison for 198O of a standard measure of financial deepening (the ratio of
money supply (M3) to GDP) for six Latin American countries and Nigeria, an
OPEC nation, revealed that only one country exhibited less financial deepen-
ing than Ecuador.
40.       The poor past performance in resource mobilization is attributable
mostly to the reluctance of prior Governments to adjust interest rates in
response to changes in expected inflation. Until 1981, the authorities main-
tained interest rates at levels below inflation. Thus, Ecuadorians
increasingly chose more attractive savings alternatives (foreign financial
assets or unregulated extra-bank deposits) over deposits within the
Ecuadorian financial system. Since 1981, official interest rates on savings
and time deposits have been raised periodically, but, until recently,
remained below domestic inflation. As a result, there was little improvement
in private domestic resource mobilization. Also, high and variable rates of
inflation and fixed interest rates made it impossible for Ecuadorian finan-
cial institutions to make long-term loans without assuming unreasonable
risks.
41.       To spur domestic resource mobilization, at the end of 1984 the
Government raised official interest rates and introduced large denomination
(over one million sucres) Certificates of Deposit (CDs) bearing unregulated
interest rates. This brought nominal official deposit rates to about 20-23
percent p.a. and efiective lending rates to about 25-26 percent p.a. for
loans up to two years, and 26 percent p.a. for loans over two years. CD
rates are about 26 percent on 12-month deposits; funds mobilized through such



- 13 -
CDs are onlent for a similar term at about 30 percent p.a. These measures
brought official interest rates to positive levels in real terms (inflation
was about 14 percent p.a. for the six months ending December 1985). More-
over, in late August 1985 the Government issued new legislation to allow
long-term financial instruments to carry variable rates to be adjusted at
frequencies determined by the Monetary Board, and amended the laws governing
banks and financieras and the Monetary Law with the purpose of strengthening
the financial condition of Ecuadorian financial institutions.
42.       The changes in interest rates have begun to have a salutary effect
on domestic resource mobilization; during 1985 real deposits in commercial
banks rose over 25 percent, and savings deposits and CDs more than doubled in
real terms. Furthermore, the introduction of variable interest rates should
greatly facilitate long-term lending. However, future action will be needed
to allow more automatic adjustment of interest rate levels, especially to
reflect changes in the rate of inflation, which oscillated in recent years
between 14 percent and 62 percent p.a. Moreover, high nominal interest rates
present a problem for long-term loans. Traditional repayment methods for
such loans result in debt service payments which are concentrated in real
terms in the earlier years, imposing liquidity strains on borrowers. During
the dialogue on financial policies, the Bank explored the possibility of
introducing financial instruments which would provide for partial capitaliza-
tion of interest. However, the Government believes that such action would be
difficult to administer and may be less urgent as its anti-inflation program
takes effect.
43.       The Government has agreed to maintain interest rates on all loans
to the industrial sector, with maturity exceeding two years, at levels which
are positive in real terms, and which, after July 1, 1987, are also adequate
relative to deposit rates, as measured by criteria agreed with the Bank. The
Government would review with the Bank the adequacy of the level of lending
interest rates at least semi-annually beginning October 1, 1986. It would
also review semi-annually with the Bank the adequacy of domestic financial
resource mobilization, based as well on criteria agreed with the Bank. The
adequacy of spreads would also be reviewed on these occasions. If, during
any of these reviews after July 1, 1987, the levels of lending interest
rates, spreads, or domestic financial resource mobilization were inadequate,
and the Government and the Bank were unable to agree on remedies for this,
then the Bank would have the right to withhold financing of fresh subloan
commitments under the proposed loan.
Past Bmank LendinLg and Strategy in Industrial and Financlal Sectors
44.       The proposed loan represents the third Bank operation for SSE
development in Ecuador. The Bank has also extended five DFC loans to Ecuador
totalling US$155 million, net of cancellations.  Tne first four DFC loans
(Loan 721-EC approved December 15, 1970; Lcsn 930-EC approved June 26, 1973;
Loan 1359-EC approved December 28, 1976; and Loan 1731-EC approved June 19,
1979) are completed. The fifth loan (2096-EC), signed April 22, 1982, is
fully committed and 92 percent disbursed. A Completion Report has recently
been issued for the third and fourth DFC projects. Its main findings showed
that by September 1983, devaluation, recession, reduced consumer demand and
public sector investment, all reduced industry's ability to meet debt service



- 14 -
payments on projects financed by DFCs. The financial statements of DFCs
therefore reflected sharply declining revenues and income. The profitabi-
lity, liquidity, and financial structures of DFCs weakened as portfolio prob-
lems mounted. Their debt/equity ratios rose from under 10 to 1 in 1982 to
between 15 to 1 and 25 to 1 for the five major private DFCs by end 1983. The
report, therefore, recommended a series of actions to strengthen DFCs,
including increasing equity and improving portfolio collection. These are
being dealt with under the proposed Industrial Finance Project.
45.      Regarding SSE loans, the first Bank loan (No. 1879-EC) for US$20
million was approved in June 1980. This loan helped establish FOPINAR and
was committed and disbursed one-and-a-half years earlier than expected. A
second Bank SSE operation (Loan No. 2221-EC) for US$40 million was approved
in December 1982. The loan helped FOPINAR to consolidate institutionally and
expand its operations. Execution of the project has proceeded smoothly and
the loan was 95 percent committed by end-1985. While a performance audit
report has not yet been prepared, the results of the Bank's survey of SSEs
discussed in para. 27 indicate that substantial benefits have been achieved
under these two projects. The average scale of borrowers and FOPINAR sub-
loans have progressively declined and an increasing share of lending has been
directed to SSEs in secondary cities and rural areas, outside the main urban
centers of Quito and Guayaquil.
46.       In line with Government objectives, Bank strategy for the manufac-
turing sector is to support employment-intensive and export-generating indus-
tries, as well as those making efficient use of local resources. Lending to
firms outside of Quito and Guayaquil continues to be stressed. The proposed
project is designed to further these objectives, and to support progress in
the broader aspects of Bank strategy, aimed at: (i) encouraging resource
mobilization and more efficient resource allocation through financial sector
reforms; and (ii) improving the industrial and trade policy framework to
encourage more efficient industrial production. This Bank strategy is based
upon (i) the findings of a 1982 Bank mission which studied ways to reduce
overall effective protection in the industrial sector; (ii) a study on the
industrial incentives system undertaken under the Fifth Development Banking
Project; and (iii) a recently concluded Bank financial sector review.
PART I? - THE PROJECT
47.       The project was identified in October 1984 and was prepared by
FOPINAR with the help of Bank staff. It was appraised in Ncvember/December
1984 and the appraisal mission's report (No. 5546-EC, dated March 3, 1986,
and entitled -Staff Appraisal Report Third Small-Scale Enterprise Credit
Project-) is being distributed separately. Negotiations for the proposed
project took place in Washington from August 28-30, 1985 and January 15-22,
1986. The Ecuadorian Delegation was led by Mr. Alfredo Crespo, Subsecretary
of Public Credit. Annex III contains a timetable of key events in processing
the project.



- 15 -
Project Obiectives
48.       The proposed project would continue the initiatives begun under the
prior two SSE projects. Its objectives would be to: (i) relieve the scarcity
of term financing on reasonable terms to strengthen, expand, diversify, and
modernize existing SSEs; (ii) provide medium-term financing for permanent
working capital to help reduce current idle capacity in the SSE sector; and
(iii) continue expanding FOPINAR's institutional capabilities.
Project Descriptlon
49.       The proposed project would provide long-term loans to SSEs to
finance (i) fixed assets, including appropriately reconditioned, certified
and valued used equipment; (ii) permanent working capital; and (iii) techni-
cal assistance for SSEs to prepare or implement subprojects and improve their
overall productivity. Subloan beneficiaries would be private SSEs involved
in manufacturing, agro-industry, fisheries, tourism, and industry-related
services and marketing activities, with less than US$350,000 of fixed assets
(excluding land, buildings, and the subprojects to be financed) and
US$750,000 of total assets (including land, buildings, and the subprojects to
be financed). Application of the second asset limit would ensure that
FOPINAR's resources would not be used to finance large projects sponsored by
small enterprises. Beneficiaries would correspond normally to firms having
less than 25-30 employees before expansion. About 2,100 subprojects are
expected to be financed under the project with an average investment cost of
US$45,000. In addition, financing up to US$200,000 equivalent would be
included to provide FOPINAR with expertise to help carry out subsectoral
studies and technical assistance to SSEs, and purchase micro-computing equip-
ment.
CFN and FOPINAR
50.       Established in 1960, CFN is the oldest and largest Financiera in
Ecuador and the major provider of medium- and long-term credit to the indus-
trial sector. CFN is wholly Government-owned. Although its policies and
operations must conform with Government development objectives, CFN is rela-
tively autonomous in its day-to-day operations. At end-1984, CiN's total
assets were about US$200 million equivalent, with equity of about US$35 mil-
lion equivalent. In the recent past, CFN has experienced financial problems,
owing inter alia to losses sustained by several public companies in which it
has loan and/or equity participations, and failure by the Government to ade-
quately cover foreign exchange losses on CFN's borrowings from the Bank under
previous DFC loans.  Recently, however, the Government and CFN took a numbur
of steps to strengthen CFN financially and institutionally. CFN reorganize.i
its loan administration efforts and established units responsible for col2ac-
tion and for restructuring problem companies. As a result, loan recoveries
have improved and a number of companies have been restructured. Moreover, in
December 1985, the Government took steps to increase effectively CFN's capi-
tal by some US$40 million equivalent. Finally, CFN has taken steps to sell a
number of its equity holdings. These steps should greatly improve the



- 16 -
financial structure of CFN and substantially ameliorate its recent liquidity
problems. Under the proposed Industrial Finance Project, the Government and
CFN have agreed to implement a plan of action to improve further CFN's finan-
cial condition and efficiency.
51.       In 1980, with Bank support, FOPINAR was established within CFN as a
self-contained financial unit to undertake rediscounting operations. On
account of its financial independence, it is shielded from CFN's financial
difficulties. FOPINAR operates from its Quito headquarters, and has branches
in Guayaquil, Cuenca, Machala, Manta and Ambato. FOPINAR's management has
successfully built an efficient institution, with a low ratio of administra-
tive costs to outstanding portfolio. Disbursements increased rapidly at an
average 18 percent p.a. in real terms between 1981-84 and are expected to
continue to grow rapidly in the medium term. The strength of demand for
FOPINAR funds is largely explained by the above-average financial condition
of SSEs, and their corresponding attractiveness as clients to financial
intermediaries. The quality of FOPINAR's portfolio has been good, and
FOPINAR has maintained a sound financial position since its inception. As of
December 31, 1984, FOPINAR's capital structure was adequate (Debt/Equity
ratio of 4.2:1) and its liquidity satisfactory (current ratio of 5:1). How-
ever, on account of unexpectedly strong demand for FOPINAR funds in 1985,
FOPINAR's liquidity stood only at about US$2 million equivalent at the end of
that year instead of the US$5 million equivalent which had been forecast
during appraisal. As a result, FOPINAR was contemplating resorting to
Central Bank credit lines as bridge financing to continue financing its
operations before effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan. FOPINAR has also
maintained a satisfactory cost structure. In 1984, its profits yielded a 24
percent return on equity, wel. above the average for Ecuadorian financial
institutions. Financial projections show that FOPINAR's financial condition
would continue to be maintained at satisfactory levels. The condition of the
FOPINAR-financed portion of the portfolios of participating financial insti-
tutions is also good. As of December 31, 1984, only 2 percent of such port-
folios was in arrears, compared to an average 20 percent for the overall
portfolio of Ecuadorian financial institutions. These results indicate that
the subproject screening process applied under FOPINAR operations has been
sound.
52.       Modifications to FOPINAR Operations.  FOPINAR operations are
governed by its Policy Statement which can only be modified in agreement with
the Bank. During project preparation, FOPINAR adopted several amendments to
its Policy Statement designed to improve its operations. First, guidelines
describing responsibilities and procedures to be followed by FOPINAR and
other CFN staff in regional offices were spelled out. Second, provisions
were included to broaden the focus of FOPINAR's activities so that an
increased share of staff time would be devoted to project follow-up, and
technical assistance. Third, eligibility guidelines for financial interme-
diaries were spelled out, so that such intermediaries would remain eligible
to intermediate FOPINAR's resources only if they could demonstrate semi-
annually that: (i) the share of their individual FOPINAR portfolios
comprised of loans affected with arrears over 90 days and refinancing within
the previous year was less than 15 percent of FOPINAR's total outstanding
portfolio; and (ii) their debt-to-equity ratio would not exceed 20:1, or
legal limits in Ecuador, whichever was lower. Finally, guidelines were



- 17 -
included to focus FOPINAR's subproject appraisal process on those sectors
with high trade protection or idle capacity, while such conditions persist
(para. 53). Agreement was also reached that FOPINAR would increase its staff
to cope adequately with the expected increase in the volume of its
operations.
53.       Subproject Appraisal Activities.   Subproject appraisal procedures
under the prior two SSE projects have proven satisfactory. However, as the
number of FOPINAR operations increases, FOPINAR can only carry out limited
subproject appraisal work. A simpler project evaluation process would there-
fore be introduced under the proposed project. The new process would be
closely linked to FOPINAR's supervision activities, and would minimize its
role in economic appraisal of individual subprojects. More specifically,
FOPINAR would:
(a) carry out studies to identify subsectors and regions where
import prohibitions had marginal economic effect, so that pri-
vate decisions by SSEs based an expected financial returns
would be consistent with economic efficiency;
(b)   calculate economic rates of return (ERR) for indi-
vidual subprojects with subloans above US$100,000
equivalent. However, for subprojects in those sec-
tors where the Bank and CFN agreed on the basis of
FOPINAR's studies that economic distortions were not
material, ERR calculations would be required only
for subprojects with subloans exceeding US$200,000
equivalent; and
(c)   carry out quarterly sampling of its clients to esti-
mate idle capacity at the sectoral and regional
levels, and share its findings and conclusions with
financial intermediaries to better inform them on
SSE prospects.
During supervision of the project, Bank staff would review the adequacy of
the new screening process and agree upon necessary amendments.
54.       FOPINAR'a Technical Assistance to SSEs.  Under the project,
FOPINAR would increase the impact of its ongoing technical assistance activi-
ties (para. 30) by providing subloans to cover the reasonable costs of tech-
nical assistance which SSEs may require. To promote such TA financing,
FOPINAR would, on a pilot basis, subsidize up to 20 percent of such costs
from itis own profits. To this end, FOPINAR would establish an ini,ial budget
of up to US$100,000 equivalent to support up to US$500,000 in initial TA sub-
lending. FOPINAR would assess results of this pilot program and continue it
if they were favorable. Additionally, FOPINAR would carry out a diagnosis of
TA needs on a regional and subsectoral basis and would finance, with its own
resources, the cost of experts to carry out the recommended technical assist-
ance. These agreements have been reflected in FOPINAR's revised rolicy
Statement.



- 18 -
Participating Financial Intermediaries
55.       FOPINAR would continue to make loans as a second-tier institution
through a network of about 36 qualified financial intermediaries, including
commercial banks, DFCs and BNF.  As in the recent past, BNF-primarily an
agricultural development bank with 75 branches countrywide serving many
SSEs-is expected to continue intermediating about 38 percent of FOPINAR's
lending. To qualify for participation, financial intermediaries would sign a
participation agreement with CFN committing themselves to comply with
FOPlNAR's criteria on portfolio quality and debt/equity ratios (para. 52) and
to maintain at least one qualified staff member to carry out subproject eval-
uation and supervision work along FOPINAP's guidelines. Signing of such
agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of disbursement of
loan proceeds to respective intermediaries.
Project Costs and Financing
56.      SSE subprojects would cost about US$93.8 million.  In addition, up
to US$200,000 would cover costs of technical assistance to FOPINAR, making a
total project cost of US$94 million. This includes an estimated US$8.5 mil-
lion in import duties and sales taxes. The proposed loan would finance about
32 percent of total project costs, equivalent to about 70 percent of the pro-
ject's foreign exchange content. Beneficiaries would finance about 37 per-
cent of total costs; FOPINAR about 25 percent; and financial intermediaries
the remaining 6 percent. Since the Bank's second SSE loan (Loan 2221-EC)
was virtually fully committed by end-1985, and in view of the lack of alter-
native long-term resources in Ecuador, retroactive financing of up to US$3
million equivalent (equal to 10 percent of the loan amount) would be provided
for subloans under the proposed loan.
Loan and Subsidiary Loan Terms
57.       The proposed US$30 million loan would be made to the Republic of
Ecuador at the Bank's standard variable interest rate with a standard commit-
ment fee of three quarters of 1 percent p.a. It would be repayable in 17
years, including 4 years of grace. The Government, through BCE as its agent,
would onlend the loan proceeds in sucres to CFN (for FOPINAR's benefit) at
the same maturity, and with the same interest rate and loan charges as the
Bank's loan would bear, plus BCE's fee of one-eighth of 1 percent p.a. and a
variable foreign exchange risk fee (para. 58). Any surplus of subloan repay-
ments over repayments due to the Bank would be used by FOPINAR for lending to
SSEs in accordance with its Policy Statement. Signing of a fiscal agency
agreement between the Government and the Central Bank, and a subsidiary
agreement between the Central Bank and CFN, both satisfactory to the Bank,
would be conditions of loan effectiveness.
Subloan Terms
58.       FOPINAR subloans would be made on terms which would take into
account the economic life of assets to be financed and the repayment capacity
of sub-borrowers. This would tend to mitigate liquidity strains on sub-
borrowers resolting from high nominal interest rates. Subloans would have a
maximum maturity of ten years, including a grace period of up to three years



- 19 -
and would carry a variable interest rate as established from time to time by
the Monetary Board. Interest rates charged to final beneficiaries on FOPINAR
subloans would be established periodically by the Monetary Board, at levels
which would be positive in real terms (para. 43). Collection of interest
payments by intermediaries and FOPINAR would initially be made semi-annually;
within one year after loan effectiveness, CFN would review with the Bank the
adequacy of this frequency and, in agreement with the Bank, increase it if
warranted to continue improving the efficiency of the collections system.
FOPINAR would receive a spread of 2.5 percent p.a. plus a 1 percent one-time
commitment fee on all subloans. Financial intermediaries would receive a
spread of 4 percent on subloans with maturities of up to 6 years and 5 per-
cent on subloans with maturities exceeding 6 years. The adequacy of these
spreads would be reviewed semi-annually by the Borrower and the Bank and
adjusted if warranted (para. 43). The foreign exchange risk would be borne
by the Government. To cover such risk, the Government would recover from CFN
the proceeds of the interest rate charged to final sub-borrowers, less inter-
mediation fees and the Bank's interest rate and charges. Assuming a final
average interest rate of 25 percent, about 10 percent p.a. of outstanding
subloan balances would be paid to the Government on this account. FOPINAR
would initially discount up to 90 percent of financial intermediaries' loans
to final beneficiaries. However, given the expected improvements in finan-
cial policies during the project's life (para. 41-43), it should be possible
for FOPINAR to require an increasingly larger financial participation by
intermediaries. Thus, one year after effectiveness of the proposed loan, CFN
would review with the Bank FOPINAR's rediscounting percentage to intermedia-
ries and adjust it if warranted in agreement with the Bank.
59.       The maximum cumulative subloan amount per sub-borrower would con-
tinue to be US$350,000 equivalent. Sub-borrowers would be required to have a
debt-to-equity ratio of not more than 70:30 after taking into account subpro-
ject costs. All subprojects would be appraised by financial intermediaries,
taking into account FOPINAR's appraisal requirements and the findings of the
subsectoral studies to be carried out by FOPINAR (para. 53). FOPINAR would
be required to review all subprojects (ex-ante for subloans above US$80,000
equivalent and ex-post for subloans below such amount). Economic rates of
return (ERR) would be calculated as described in para 53. The minimum
acceptable ERR would be 12 percent in real terms. These agreements are
reflected in FOPINAR's Policy Statement and Operating Procedures. All sub-
loans above a free limit initially set at US$200,000 would require prior Bank
approval. In addition, selected projects below the free limit would be
reviewed by Bank supervision missions. The adequacy of this free limit would
be reviewed from time to time and modified by the Bank as necessary. Finan-
cial intermediaries would be responsible for supervising a sample of their
subprojects, as determined quarterly by FOPINAR.
Procurment
60.       Financial intermediaries and FOPINAR would satisfy themselves that
procurement items were suitable for respective subprojects and reasonably
priced, and that beneficiaries had canvassed main available sources of supply



- 20 -
and were purchasing from advantageous sources. This would conform to normal
commercial practices for DFC-type projects. Since it may be difficuilt or
relatively costly to obtain several quotations from suppliers for small
orders, evidence of solicitations of offers would be required for procurement
contracts exceeding US$150,000 equivalent. This requirement would not apply
in the case of proprietary items. Consulting services for SSEs financed by
subloans would be provided under terms of reference acceptable to FOPINAR,
and would be open to supply by local or foreign professionals prequalified by
FOPINAR. Consulting services and goods for technical assistance to FOPINAR
would be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Disbursements
61.       Disbursements would be made to finance up to:  (i) 100 percent of
CIF costs of directly imported equipment, materials and services, including
goods purchased off-the-shelf from domestic distributors whenever CIF prices
could be ascertained; (ii) 45 percent of the cost of locally procured goods
and services, including civil works; and (iii) 100 percent of the cost of
services and goods related to technical assistance for FOPINAR. Most dis-
bursements are expected to be made on the basis of Statements of Expendi-
tures to be submitted by FOPINAR to the Bank. The final date for submission
of subloan proposals for review by the Bank would be March 31, 1991, and the
Closing Date for the loan would be March 31, 1992.
Accounting, Auditing and Reports
62.       CFN would continue to maintain separate accounts for FOPINAR in a
form satisfactory to the Bank. CFN's external auditors would carry out an
annual audit of FOPINAR's accounts, under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank. As under prior SSE projects, CFN would submit the audit report and
related management letter to the Bank within five months following the end of
CFN's fiscal year. Regarding CFN's assignment of indirect costs to FOPINAR,
CFN would continue to submit to the Bank by November 30 of each year,
FOPINAR's annual budget, including proposed allocations of indirect costs,
for the Bank's review and comment.
Project Benefits and Risks
63.       The proposed project would continue to support the financing of
efficient SSE projects in Ecuador at a time when the financial system lacks
long-term resources to meet SSE investment needs. The proposed project would
finance some 2,100 investment subprojects costing about US$94 million, and
generate over 18,000 new jobs. The impact of the project is expected to be
geographically dispersed, with a high percentage of subprojects concentrated
in rural areas. Only about 40 percent of subprojects would be in the indus-
trial centers near Quito and Guayaquil. Furthermore, given the support to be
provided to FOPINAR to continue strengthening it institutionally, better
services to SSEs as well as efficient subloan and subproject implementation
are expected. Further important benefits would result from the dialogue with
the Government in connection with this loan on resource mobilization,
interest rates, and domestic industrial policy issues which critically affect
the macro-economic environment in which SSEs function.



- 21 -
64.       Possible changes in FOPINAR's management could pose some future
risks to efficient project execution. Assurances have, therefore, been
obtained under the project that FOPINAR would continue to be managed
soundly. Also, depending on the rate of economic recovery in Ecuador and the
potential negative short-term impact of import liberalization and interest
rate reforms, demand for project resources could slacken. However, even if
loan disbursements slowed somewhat, the project would remain viable.
PART V - RBECGMNh!IO-dS
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 3, 1986
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -                                  ANNEX I
TA        SAL C 3A                    Page  1 of  6
XCUADO                 - SOCIAL INDICATOR  DATA 8ZT
XCUADDC                             ws    Cg   Fen (cZuCNr  AVZRAGES) a
MO6ST                   (luau  UCEHI ZETIMAE) b
ageok  i k       .IDDLE                    0WU  r
196o!      1970L   U?DSIHATELb     LAT. ASRICA * CAR            3u0mP
AMU (mlama IQ..oN
TOTAL                              233.4 6     13.1       253.6
AGNIICULDRAL                        47.0       48.6        65.3
C   13 CAPIT (US4)                      ..         ..       1420.0            1875.9                    2144.3
mam commX ym coins
(KILDOGRNS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)      151.0      223.0       571.0             993.6                    1119.8
POMLA . AM VITAL mTATIuhIC
POPULATIONNNIDX-IZA  (THObSANDS)   '422.0    5864.0      6216.0
UUAN PCOULATION (X OF TOTAL)        34.4       39.5        46.4              67.7                     47.5
POPUIATION PROJZCrIONS
rOPULIAION  TN EAR 2000 (CILL)                           12.6
STATIONAR  POPULATION CHILL)                             25.0
POPULATION IDIENT                                         1.9
POPULATION DNSITY
PER SQ. Ku.                       15.6       20.7        29.0              48.0                     84.7
PZR SQ. KM. ARI. LAND            94.1      120.8       122.3              91.1                     166.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE CZ)
0-14 IRS                         44.4       45.3        43.8              33.5                      31.2
15-64 nRS                        51.9        50.8        52.7              57.1                     61.5
65 AND ABO14                       3.5        3.8         3.4               42                        7.2
POPULATION GROWII RATE (C)
TOTAL                              2.9        2.5         2.6               2.4                       1.6
URAN                               4.9        4.2         3.8               3.6                       3.7
CRIUD1 B11TH RATE (PER T1O0S)       46.6       43.2        37.0              30.9                      23.4
CRUDE DlATH RATE (PER THOUS)        16.6       12.9         8.1               8.0                       8.9
CROSS REPROOUCrION RATE              3.4        3.2         2.6               2.0                       1.5
FAMILY PLAINIC
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)          ..         9.0        32.3 /c
USZRS (X OF ARRIED  WHEN)          ..                     0.0              45.3
rOOD -M UmTiN
INDEX 07 OD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      104.0      101.0        82.0             109.6                    109.1
PZR CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (C OF RuQUzRmnuu)        78.0       89.0        97.0             113.2                     131.5
PROTEINS (CRAMS PZR DAY)          48.0       52.0        50.0              69.4                     92.4
OF WHICH  DIAL AND PULSZ         25.0       27.0        26.0 /d           34.2                      34.5
CHILD CAGZS 1-4) DCATH RATE         26.2       17.8         7.0               4.8                      4.7
*LmD
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (TEARS)       50.7       55.9        62.8              64.8                     67.2
INFAT MDRT. RATE (PER TNCUS)       140.0      107.5        76.0              59.7                     53.3
ACCZSS TO SAVE WATER CIPOP)
ToTAL                             12.3 f.    34.0        45.0 /a           65.3                      70.2
URSAN                             32.5 If    76.0        82.0 7;           76.5                     89.4
RURAL                              l.9 7l    7.0         16.0 7;           44.2                     57.0
ACCZSS TO EXCEETA DISPOSAL
C( OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              .         22.4        25.0 /a           56.3                      59.6
URBAN                              ..         ..         39.0 7            73.4                      65.9
RURAL                              ..          ..        ia.0 7            25.5                      47.6
POPULATION PE PHYSICIAN           2670.0     2820.0       7e0.0            1909.7                    1070.6
POP. PER MURStN  PERSON           2360.0 If  1580.0       570.0             808.2                     769.5
POP. PER HOSPITAL BZD
TOTAL                            530.0      420.0       500.0             362.0                     328.3
URBAN                            300.0 /f   300.0         ..              422.0                     201.9
RURAL                              ..      '440.0         ..             2716.7                    4519.7
ADaSSONS PER HOSPITAL BC             ..         17.1        ..               27.5                      20.0
KmSX=
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.1 if     5.2
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..
AVERSrE NO. OF Pl!RSONS/ROQI
TOTAL                              2.5 If     2.3
URBAN                              2.1 7T     1.9
RURAL                              2.8 7i     2.6
PEqZENT.GE OF D1LINCS WITH ELECT.
TOTAL                             32.3 If     ..         45.0
URBAN                             78.5 7'     ...
RURAL                              a.5 7r      ..



- 23 -                                    ANNEX I
T A B L E  3A                 Page  2  of  6
KCUADOR                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ECUADOR                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTEo AVERACES) /s
MOST                     (HOST RECENT ESTIKATE) /b
RECENT            MIDDLE INCOHE           MIDDLE INCOME
19601k      19701! ESTIMATSb         LAT. AMERIC.   CAR            EURoPe
IDUCATIO-
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENr RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                    83.0        97.0        114.0              106.7                     101.9
MALE                    87.0        99.0       116.0               108.5                     106.2
FEMALE                  79.0        95.0       112.0              104.6                       97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   12.0        22.0        56.0                44.2                      57.5
NALE                    13.0        21.0        56.0               42.7                       64.9
FEMALE                  10.0        23.0        56.0               44.9                       50.0
VOCATIONAL CZ OF SECONDARY)          29.0         11.1       12.3                13.3                      21.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            39.0        38.0        36.0                29.9                      25.1
SECONDARY                          11.0         14.0        15.0               16.7                      19.1
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP           2.1         4.6          8.5 lh            46.0                      54.2
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP         38.4       289.9        356.8              328.3                     170.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             0.5         25.6       68.9               112.4                     149.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST) CIRCULATIII
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             51.1        42.6        71.4                81.1                      97.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA       ..          3.8         ..                 ..4                        2.7
LAN= POem
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)          1446.0       18U8.0     2661.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   16.3         19.1       22.0                23.6                      36.3
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              57.4        51.0         51.6 /a            31.4                      40.8
INDUSTR (PERCeNT)                  19.4        22.2        17.1 re             24.3                      23.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              32.7         32.2        32.4               33.5                      43.1
MALE                               55.0         52.1       50.5                51.3                      55.1
FEMALE                             10.6         12.3       14.1                15.9                      31.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.5          1.5         1.5                1.3                       0.9
IauiC   DIBTRISSM
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOMe
RECIVED Br
HICHEST 5E OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..
HICHEST 20X OF HOUSEROLDS           ..
LOWEST 20S OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..
LOWEST 40X oP HOUSEHOLDS            ..
PV    TAGr GRO
ESTINAED ABSOLUTE POVERTY IDCOME
LEVEL US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        470.0 /a            288.3
RURAL                               ..          ..        320.0 7;            185.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        553.0 la            519-S
RURAL                               ..          ..        428.07e             359.7
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
PCVERTY INCOME LEVEL CZ)
URBAN                               ..           .         40.0 /a
RURAL                               ..          ..         65.0 7;T
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a   The grou, average. for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
song the indicators dependa on availability of data and Is not uniform.
lb  Unleas otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 end 1961; "Data for 1970" batwen
1969 and 1971; end data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1981 and 1983.
/c   1976; /d 1977; 1- 1980; /f 1962; jf Percentage couputed on the ba-si of total number of occupied
housing unlts;  /iF1978.
JUNE, 1985



-24-                                              ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEVWn>MOt SOCIAL N4DWA1ORS
compmmhle hmme of she latk of msdanrdimd ddfiislm and mupsmm by ibsuss comu4rn la aWbcslg she data. The dun ama ao.ashee motWIa,
nah Ino d    armimds. indi, ut..di mm eiamcmise ltoa majow dib  itumni Cum1iul
The seme groups alIl mdo umns county Woou of the ebje essmuy sod (2) a coimny grouI wish semewaha high awap' dsuesa she inms
asouof se aiss simmooy (tomp for 11Hgb lcmaseOil Eap ure'grup whmM'liddhlemoeNsrth Afflimsad Midl atcmh.uswm  
,ssjo.emllumhlaulsluo).  I he m      dutashe ananmu ian populdom wd asmesck man; 1fo amh iadiar and shown oly when muory
sflh coum h grup has m. for thas Indeauc Sinc she cowrap of esuuinst among she itam dlmosdpeaon she aauiIeNN  of daa and lIms am  fom.b
anmes  muss beesatnd Im tuladhg awragn ofuow Indlmosr toaaotbsr. Thes avwap su only =dmlun kom esapeie de v'aofm atn mimogwat a due amongI
she coommy and Ie   grouPs.
AREA (thousand sqJkn)                                         Crad,AZbth A km (p ammmd-N -um bea ofr live birfth in the yea
Teed--Total surface ame comprising laznd ame amd inland waters  per thousand of mid-yen populaton 1960. t970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1933 data.                                     Cm*d Deat  Ame (pw ar  mimrnd-Number of denahs in the year
Agde~I-Estmateof agricultura ame used tempomrary or      per thousand of nmid-year population. 1960.1970. and 1963 data.
parmanedy for crops. pastures, market and kcitchen pardens or to  Gram Rep.dacifa Raem-Averag number of daughter a waman
lie fallowi. 1960.1970 and 1982 data.                         will bear in her normal reprductive period if she  peens
prasent ag-spec fe(tility rates; usually 1w -yar avages ending
GNP FM CAPA (USS)i-GNP per capita esuimas at cur              in 1960.1970. and 19_3.
market prices calculated by same conversion method as World   )inrm*  Pfraiar-Acceptara Amm  (rhnmsseudu-Annual nunm-
Damk Ada, (1981-83 bats  1983 data.                           ber of acceptors of birth-contro devices under auspics of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTInON PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                fsamiy plannig program.
csmption of commercal primary enery (coal and lignite.    Fpery PIomrq-Usas (pcew ofmwrk9d 0a.90)-The percen-
petroeum, 1 tural gS and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal ea    ta  ofmarred women ordcild-bearing a  who are practing or
tiey) in kilgams of oil equivaletr ca it 190. 1m7 o           whose husbnds are practicing any form of contacep0 on. Women
li8 data.                                                     of chbid-bearing age are generally omme agd 1549. although for
some counties contaceptive usg  is meaued for oher age
POPULATION AND VrTAL STATISICS                                grOUPs
CNP PBpa PT dare. Md- Yew    p (thewds e)-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUT8MON
and 1983 data.
Ub&n  PqdaRdo  (prcma of ra Pi)-Ratio of urban to total          x                 Per Cq*a (IU-L7      Jn       of per
population. ddremn defisudons of ufto arm may affcct cmupa    capita annual prnodction of al food commodities Production
population dierent de*initions do- uban areas may act  mplar-  egclfude amnmal feed and seed for agrictkhuw Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1993 data. rnd wte pdmay commodities (eyg. srcane iad of suWom)
hpOu1l111i611 prsrctow  -which are edible and contain nutrents (e.g. coffee oantea ae
PopdainM   yea 2 -Tbc projection or populat  for 20.0.        Facuded) thy compr   creas root cops puse  oil seeds.
made for eac   oomy sepaa ly. Starig with information on      vegetabes fruits, nuts sugarcane and sugar be    livestock and
total population by ae  and ua, fertiity rates mortaty rates. and  lvestck product Aggegate producion of each country is basd
ternational miion in the base ycar 1980. th93d parames        on natona averag producer price weights 1961-65. 197  and
were projectd at five-year inervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
asanmptions until the popuation became stationary.            A- ca.,i Su. s   efc,iis (Preaar.freqmuseuou)-Comput-
Staay popedhaw-Is one in which age- and s-specific mor-       ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies availabl in country
tat rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Avable supplies comprisc domestic produc-
ertility rates have simultaneously remaned at replacement lcvd  tion. imnports lss exports. and chan  in stocL Net supplies
(net reproduction rate-1). In suh a population, the birth rate is  exclude animl feeld seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death ate, the age struure is also  food proceing, and lses in distbution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary poplation  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal actiiqy
sizw  estumated on the basis of the prected characteristcs of  and health conidenng cnvironmental tempeature. body weiihts.
the population in the year .20. and the rate of decdine of fcrtiliy  agc and sex distnbution of population, and aUlowing 10 percent for
rate to replacemet lvel.                                      waste at household level 1961. 1970 and 1982 deta.
PopAlauon Momenrawn-ls the tendency for population growth to  her Cqha Suppb of  aulx (grama per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita  t supply orfood per day. Net supply of rood is defuied
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above Requirements for all countris esblisbed by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year r is measured as  provide for minimum alowances of 60 grants of total protein per
a rax' of the ultmate statioay population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 gams
the year t. given the assumption that fertilE.y remains at rplace-  should be aninal protein. These sandards.are lower tn those of
ment lvel from year I onward. 1985 data.                      75 grAms of total protein mnd 23 grams of animal protein as an
Papales. Deinky                                               average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
er sjqb.-Mid-yesr population per squam kilometer (100 hec-    Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tar) of total ar; 1960,1970. and 1983 data.                   Per Cspita hrin Saupfy From Anidas d tlise-Protein suppl)
Pr sq.km. agrkulurai lWd-Computed as above for agricultural -    of food derived from animals nd pules in gms per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960, 1970. and 1982 data.                         1970 and 1977 data.
Abpuln  Age S5acrov (percear)-Children (0 14 years), work-    CAl (dgs 5-4) Dah Rare (per thewat d)-Number of deaths of
ing  e(l5-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentap  children aged 1-4 yers per thousand children in the same ae
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.            group in a given year For most devdoping countries data derived
*hpulria Grwth Rate (pa')e -et an-Annual growth rates of      from life tables 1960. 1970 and 1933 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.  HEALXH
PJ_a_dm Growh RAwe pwe)-wbaw-Annual growth rames              Lft Expec     ety s Sk  (yGrsj-Nurnber of years  nesborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data,   infant would lve if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-   -                                            ANNEX  I
Page 4 of 6
at thu me of or its birth we  to stay the -mthrougoout Its lifr;  ApsarAIr Xail . prbhary, ed Tscondarr-Total students on-
1960. 1970 ad 1963 datL                                       rold In prmay  nd uondasy levs dvided by number of
_Vo  MeAhEa Xae (per tehemd)-Number of infants who die        tcbr I te corramepondIng evels.
before macig one ywr orap per thousnd live births in a given
year; 1960 1970 and 19M da                                    CONSUMTON
Act       to Si*  No  (,eeu   d pa              mb   ed        gsq  Cars (per dema_d pucaJe                   rt car-
-Nurmber of people (totl uba  and ral) with roable            prise motor cars mting lssa tho  eight prons; excludes ambul-
ac   to safe water supply (nudm  trated  surf   watern or     ans, harses and miitgy vehile.
untreated but uncontaminated water such a that from protected  XailoRd.      (pu t desnd popsIlrduu)-All types of raecevers
buthls srn  and ssnry we) e o ta   of their repec-            for dio bmadcat   general publicper thousand or=opwadon;
tive populatons In an urban     public fountain ouadpou       e        un-uomsed feevers an coui  and in yer when
locted not more ton 200 meter from a hous may be considered      i        or radio stswu wasin effect data for reotnt yea  may
as being within easonable so_e of that house. In rural aras   not be comparable since most countries abolished licensing
nublca d lmpu*bat Xth fehoumme or rab fthe
hoturdbold do not baw to spnd a di ioodnt pert of the diLy    TyRec  w(per         _       T        reocive fo brodt
im letching the fuoily's water needs.           t°                    pub        thouend populwhen estraio undo nes wV
AmEs rtuozwa Dpo  (ps  o    deA weni rcupopnyetimi.ha.on orhn,                                                     wu
ed rem-Number of people (totL urban. end rural) sved by       in def
excrea disposal  pementages of tir respeive populations.      Jewspw  G       u  (pe      npo                      the aver-
Exre  dipol may iclude the colleion and dispoul, with or      ae  idd  of 'daly Seneal intet newspaper;" dened as a
without treament, of human eacret and wastewaer by water-     perodl pubction devoted primaily to  cording geea ne
borne system  or the uw of pit prives and similer instalJagioju.  It is considered to be 'dly" if it appan  at keat four times a week.
hpeldhpwv ?hdlci olation divided by number of pra              Cmm. Amue Alaudanca per CM&ir per Yea-Based on the
tising physians qualified from a medial school at university level.  number of tickets sold during the year. including sdmission to
Papdatidou pwr Nwv Perso.-bpulation divided by number of      drive-in cnemas and mobile units.
practicg male and female gduate nurse  asistant nurseO
pmcca nur!le and nunmg auxilares.                             LABR  FORCE
PrAcpca ns  and nrsingauilar .                                To r Flopultion  arl Labor Force (thoauds)-Econormnially active persons. in-
(hp.L urban. andr Hosa  ivxded   by dtenr rdiwPnumba or       cluding armed forc  and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hopita  bedsn and ra  dividednb   tei resectv  nbo            sents etc.. covaing populatnon o all agcs. Definitions in
hospitals auta abletion cepub rca     Hospita   are ess perliien  venous countries are not co.mparble; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanntly stiffed by at least one physian. Establishments prov-  Fem    (perr-Female labor force as percentage or total labor
iding principally custodial care re not incuded. Rul hopit,      c
however. include health and medial centen not permanenty staffed  Agrkarw  (percmar)-.Labor force in farming, forestry. hunting
by a physican (but by a medical auistnt, nurs, midwife, ec.)  and fishing as petage of toal labor force 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data-
of medical facilities.                                       JIdasy (percamr)-Labor force in mining, constucton. menu-
Ad. 4sias per Hospiai Bed-Total number of admissions to or    facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
AvrIdp - I Rate (prercaar-tora mwle, andfamark-Prticipation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rtes ae computed as total, malk, and femae lbor fomce
Aae Size of Houseol (parma per hmaholdJ-raal -ben,            a peotages of totaL male and female population of all ages
aEEIura-A household consiss of a group of ndividuals who share  repctvely; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarte  and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  partcipation rat refliecting age-sex structure of the population. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposeL  long time trend. A few esimtes are from national sources.
Aer.  Nmber of Pems per Roo-tol, when and rura--    E&eoaea  Dqepdeacy Redo-Ratio of population under 15, and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural    65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwdlings. respectvely. Dwellings exdude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DISTRIBLTION
Pnrenrage of DMg wit Elericty-tatal, rban. and rural--        Prec g of Total Dispeuabe income (bot  n cash amd kind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in iiving quaners as peroen-  Accruing to pe centile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban, and rural dwedlings respectively.       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4nsred Ewoflhmi_t Rads                                       The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Pviary school - tota. mak and femak--Gross totaL nde and      levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all age at the primary lvel as percentages of  EsdmatedlAbsoh e Pot Income Leel fUSS fr capit i-waen
respectve pnrmary schoo-age populations. While many countries  nd ara-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider prime  school age to be 6-11 years. others do noL The  below which a minimnal nutritionaly adequate diet plus essential
differns in country pracs in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some counties with universal  E&tmmed Reldae Awrty Inome Level (5 par cpite,Lwhan
education, gross enrolment may exceed 100 perent since some   and ra-Rural relative poverty income kvel is one-third of
pupils are bdow or above the country's standard primary-chool  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age                                                           derived from the rural level vwith adjustment for higher cost of
SecGidary school - rota. male  d femal-Computed as abov;      living in urban areas.
secondary education rquires at least four year of approved pri-  Eimaed P.pulau Belw Absolte Pbarty Ineoue Laid (perw-
mary insucbo  provides generaL vocationaL or teacher trining  car-w n ed rura- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils ully of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are absolute poor.
enace courses are generally exduded.
Voat    Enrolbi (perme  of sc) oyw-Vocational institu-                 Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions indude techniaL industrial, or other programs wbich operate     Econoniic Analysis and Projections Deprutment
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                            June 1985



- 26-
B1AM: EXNHIC  IIDICROC                                  Ppe 5 of 6
IbSulatinn: 8.4 (mdo IgK, mlilliam)
0? Per Capita: MIM15.8 (195')
nMlt          Averge Aa,a  Increase (C)   Share of CP at Vliket Price (Z)
Indicator                                       Otillion USS at    (at catnt 1975 pricec)
GaTent Pricen)
1984          1960-70 1970-10  1980.84      1970     1975     1980     195'
Natiaml Ackrat
Cemo  kaetic Prodtct a/                       10.167.0             5.8      9.1      0.9    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Agrpaltwe                                    1.373.6             4.0      2.8    -0.2       23.9     17.9     12.1      13.5
II-1-try b Minizu                            4.158.8             7.3     12.2      4.3     19.7      27.6     29.8     40.9
services                                     4.553.7             6.3      9.1      0.1      56.3     54.5     5S.0     44.8
cmtk_tic                                       7,600.9             5.0      8.7      0.0      86.4     79.7     74.1     74.8
1koa  irnenrt                                  1,997.1            18.7     11.0   -10.5       18.2     26.7     26.1     19.6
1art of (2FS                                   2.861.0             2.7     12.2      3.7      16.9     28.0     24.4     28.1
4aports of 0w5                                 2,M92.0            10.9     10.9   -11.8      21.5      30.0     25.7     22.5
&oaa Natimal saiqp                             1.785.1             n.S.    13.7   na..        12.4     19.0     21.4     17.6
Ccpouitiem of ldmidise Trade (1)
(at amn t prics)       Etiinted
1980     1961     1952     1953     1984
1oW IE  cSW                                                        100.0    100.0    100.0    100.    100.0
Primary                                                           72.5     79.3     82.5      90.2     79.9
Cride Petrolem                                                  5'.8     61.3      59.3     69.5     66.2
thers                                                           17.7     18.0     23.2      20.7     13.7
i&efacture                                                        27.5     20.7      17.5     9.8      20.1
PEtrolem Dernatiwv                                               7.5      6.5      5.8      4.5       5.8
P..cened Comea                                                   7.1      4.0      2.4       1.1      1.1
Fish  id Seafood                                                 2.9      2.1      5.7       1.1      8.9
others                                                          10.0      8.1      3.6      3.1       4.3
HEM DUE    15                                                      IW. 100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Fbod                                                               6.7      5.8      5.5      8.5      6.8
Peroln                                                             8.9      9.6     10.1      18.3     18.0
lMchirery  d Equipt                                               36.1     38.5     32.5     24.9      27.6
Otbaer                                                            48.3     46.1     51.9     48.3     47.6
PM1X1S AM  O    CF D0E (1975-100)
OW Deflar                                                        198.7    227.2    267.0    374.9    483.6
ladmege  sate Cticr  per dollar)                                  25.0     25.0     30.0    44.1      62.5
P,rt Price                                                       239.5    239.4    236.1    228.7    213.8
Xi8ort price Td                                                  164.2    152.3    154.1    153.7  i57.8
Tl    of Trade Indes                                             145.9    157.0    153.2    148.8    135.5
As a X of GO
1975     1980     1983
PmC    FiN2bC
ourut DEVu                                                                 25.2     27.7     26.3
Owrrt  llzdi w                                                             20.0     22.2     20.8
Sphia () or Deficit (-)                                                    -3.4    -4.6    -1.4
Capital  1    _diu                                                          8.5     10.1      6.9
Ftrig DFidmilm                                                              1.4      5.4      0.8
1960-70  1970-8   1980.84  1985-90
CDm  WS
aW GrOWt1 DAte (W                                                           5.8      9.1      0.9       2.8
aP Per Caita (koth  Rate                                                    2.4      6.5    -1.6        0.3
lrae    Ciumptim    b (wth RDte (2) b/                                      8.5     13.6   nu..        Da.
101                                                                         0.7      3.0     16.0      6.0
11igina  pSizia lRte                                                       -0.4      0.2     na.        0.2
Iort  Elaticity                                                             1.9      0.3     U.S.      0.3
n.a.- infontm rot wviilUle.
ml - Cmm          an owaemid at factor  at md do wat od up beme they exclude indirect tjm.
bJ - Figoe are for 1980-74 1  197L8. Sxrce: 1984 brld Dewlcpat 8pot.                                         6/2/5



- 27 -
Pqc6 of 6
MM: B!M    OF P6381, OMSL CPU  AMU 1
(billion MS at oamnt pries)
lbwlatlm: 8.4 bid I984, william)
CW kr Capita: USS1115.8 (1984)
AMba.l             FAtim_d          Prjected
1980    1981    1982     1983     1954    1985      1987    1990
BLALM OF PASS
lbt bpos of bds & Serices                       -671.8 -1026.6 -1215.0   -1I8.0  -574.0   -318.0  -311.0  -6441.0
bjorta of teds £ srvicu                       2,975.6 3,00.0  2,734.0  2,68B.0  3,231.0  3,066.0  3,579.0  3,700.0
7qirts of Cow" & Ssricea                      3,667.4 4,026.6 3,949.0  2,816.0  3,805.0  3,384.0  3,890.0  4.300.0
Nbt tasfe                                          0.0     0.0    20.0      74.0    2D.0      3.0     20.0    40.0
Grin  Mste  .lan                                -671.8 -1026.6 -1193.0  -104.0  -55t.0  -298.0  -291.0   -560.0
Direct Piatc z                                    70.0    60.0    40.0      50.0    30.0    100.0    120.0    200.0
Official Csnt Aid                                 30.2      25       0        0        0      0.0      0.0      0.0
lU  ws t)                                        702.    930.8  -262.3    236.6    104.0    15.0    275.0   400.0
officia                                         723.3   419.3  -122.2     59.0     ma&.    -10.0    175.0    20.0
Prite                                          479.5   S11.5  -140.0    177.6    U.S.       25.0    100.0    200.0
Other Capital                                    189.1  -285.1   957.3   -26.8      n.-.     80.0   -40.0    -
age in Official  Ra-as (-uimcrme)               -320.3   295.9   460.0  -155.8   400.0    i0m.        -14.0    40.0
GM"  7lsstiacsl Official lews                   1.264.7   822.7   459.8    819.4   706.4    e9.4    870.0    S9.0
Official dmes (yost-ed)                            4.2     2.5      1.4     3.5      2.2      2.9      2.7      2.5
(am mcths of iqiorts)
1980   lI81    1982      1983     1984
toss Diaburhw  zsz of ia Loss                    972.9 1,412.5   D77.2    271.9    389.5
aocsnicosl                                       14.7    29.5    15.4     20.      77.0
lilatera                                        3.7     1.5     1.7      3.4      7.9
aK                                            -  0.5 -   -  -
Otelr Mltilateal                               11.0    26.5    13.7     17.4    69.1
=Nwrsm l                                       958.2 1,38E1   261.8   251.1    312.5
Official        r edits                       250.6   63.3    58.7    131.2   203.3
ISID                                           34.0    54.1    41.2     47.2    66.7
Oder tltilsterl                                46.3    47.7    72.5     26.3      5.1
-tEa                                          627.3   156.0    89.4    43.4    37.4
a     OrM
Debt Gatsadicg u  Didswssd                      3,329.0 4,22D.5 3,919.0  6,268.9  6,630.4
official                                      1,351.0 1,739.2  1,582L9  1,731.0  1,896.8
IND                                           109.4   151.3   173.6    201.0    247.3
M                                             36.3    36.5    36.2      35.8    35.4
Oter Official                               1,205.3 1,551.4  1,373.1  1,494.2  1,614.1
Otber                                         1,977.8 2,481.5 2,336.1  4,537.9  4,733.6
dibwssd Dbt                                     1,039.7   879.6 1,013.1  1,404.3  1,05'.4
1= -C
teal Dbt Savise PalmSe                           556.6   922.9 1,101.6    529.8   991.4
intert                                          206.5   41.2   562.1    372.6    189.7
_Atiastln                                      270.1   481.7   539.5    157.2   201.
Debt Ssrice     o a  nf bprts                      8.7    30.8   40.3       19.7    30.7
DM GI at 1
ID D/toeal Dt                                      3.3     3.6     4.4      3.2      3.7
SID disbutAltotl pot di_ursaitA                    3.5     3.8    14.9     17.4    17.1
M  det srice/total det ssicn                       3.3     2.5     2.9      6.6      4.0
ae DD/eal  DMO                                     l.i     0.9     0.9      0.6      0.5
ML disba/tal    disbLasao                         -    0.0  -    -    -
aL debt sevica/ttl de servic                       0.2     0.1     0.1      0.1      0.1
mna. - ifafitim  mt avilable.



j&NEI II
28-                           Page I of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SCUADOR
A.  STATEMNT OF MMNK LOANS AND IDA CRDTS (s of September 30, 1985)  1/
--US$ million--
Amount
Loan or                                                  (less cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal
Number     Year    Borrower    Purpose                  Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
20 loans and 6 credits fully disbursed                  250.8  37.5      -
1429      1977      Ecuador     Highways                 17.5   -        5.1
1459      1977      Ecuador     Agriculture              15.5   -        1.8
S006      1978      Ecuador     Technical
Assistance             11.0   -        0.2
1644      1978      Ecuador     Rural Development        18.0   -       14.5
1776      1980      Ecuador     Guayaquil Urban
Development            31.0   -       24.5
1882      1980      Ecuador     Highways                 55.0   -       35.4
1991      1981      Ecuador     Rural Development        20.0   -       ;8.0
2044      1982      Ecuador     Rural Development        17.0   -       15.2
2096      1982      Ecuador     DFC                      60.0   -        4.5
2135      1982      Ecuador     Housing                  35.7   -       30.3
2171      1982      Ecuador     Education                16.0   -       14.8
2221      1983      Ecuador     Small Scale Enter-
prise Credit           40.6    -       6.0
2516 2/   1985      Ecuador     Public Sector Manage-
ment                    8.0            8.0
Total                                      596.1  37.5
of which has been repaid                 159.3   2.6
Total now outstanding                      436.B  34.9
Amount sold                     3.2
of which has been repaid      3.2          -     -
Total now held by Bank and IDA             436.8  34.9
Total undisbursed                                         178.3
/ A US$100 million Agriculture Sector Loan was approved by the Bank
October 22, 1985.
2/ Not yet effective.



- 29 -
ANNM= II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1985)
Type of      (amount in USS million)
Fiscal Year                                 Business    Loan    Equity    Total
1966 & 1972   La Internacional, S.A.        Textiles      3.7       0.2       3.9
0969, 1973,   Compania Financiera
1975 & 1977   Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo
1981, 1982      S.A. (COFIEC)               DFC           -         0.5       0.5
1976           Sociedad Agricola e Indus-
trial San Carlos, S.A.    Sugar Mill   5.0          -        5.0
1978, 1980,
1982, 1983,
1984           Cemento Nacional (CEM)       Cement       12.0       1.0      13.0
1980           Adamas Andina, S.A. 1/       Pulp and
Paper        3.3      1.0       4.3
1981          Compania Minera Toachi,
S.A.                        Mining        1.0       0.3       1.3
Total gross commitments                   25.U       3.0      28.0
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                     19.6       1.7     21.3
Total commitments now held by IFC          5.4       1.3       6.7
Total undisbursed                          -         -         -
1/ Cancelled by letter of April 26, 1982



- 30 -                        ANNEX III
ECUADOR
THIRD .SMALL-SCALE EnTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section T   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by Country to prepare project: one month
(b) Project prepared by: FOPINAR with assistance from Bank staff
(c) First presentation to the Bank: October 1984
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: November 19, 1984
(e) Completion of Negotiations: January 22, 1986
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: September 30, 1986
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a)  Subloans would carry a variable interest rate (para. 58);
(b) The Government wculd maintain interest rates on all loans to the
industrial sector, with maturity exceeding two years, at levels
which were positive in real terms, and which, after July 1, 1987,
were also adequate relative to deposit rates, as measured by cri-
teria agreed with the Bank. The Government would review with the
Bank the adequacy of the level of lending interest rates at least
semi-annually, beginning October 1, 1986. It would also review
semi-annually with the Bank the adequacy of domestic financial
resource mobilization, based as well on criteria agreed with the
Bank. The adequacy of spreads would also be reviewed on these
occasions. If, during any of these reviews after July 1, 1987, the
levels of lending interest rates, spreads, or domestic financial
resource mobilization were inadequate, and the Government and the
Bank were unable to agree on remedies for this, then the Bank would
have the right to withhold financing of fresh sub-loan commitments
under the proposed loan (para. 43); and
(c) Retroactive financing of up to US$3 million from the proposed loan
would be provided for subloans under the project (para. 56).






