FILE C OPY
Report No. 1103-RO
Appraisal of the Riul Mare-Retezat
Hydropower Project Romania
March 17, 1976
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 1976)
Currency unit                 =     leu(s), lei (pl)
lei 20                        =     US$1.00
lei 1                         =     US$0.05
lei 1,000,000                 =     US$50,000
US$1                          =     lei valuta 4.97 in convertible
currency terms
=     lei valuta 6.67 in Comecon
currency terms
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
m         =    meter                =     3.28 feet
km        =    kilometer            =     0.62 mile
ha        =    hectare              =     2/47 acres
i3             cubic meter          =     1.31 cubic yards
kWh       =    kilowatt hour        =     3,414 British thermal units
GWh       =    Gigawatt hour        =     1 million kWh
kW        =    kilowatt                   1 thousand watts
MW        =    Megawatt             =     1 thousand kW
kV        =    kilovolt             =     1 thousand volts
t         =    metric ton (tonne)  =      1.1 US tons = 2,204.6 pounds
1         =    liter
cm        =    centimeter
atm       =    atmosphere
min       =    minute of time
k/cm2    =    kilogram per square centimeter
mt/s           cubic meter per second
hr        =    hour
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
I.B.           =  Banca de Investitii (Investment Bank).
CIEET          =  Centrala Industriala a Energiei Electrice Si Termice
(Industrial Central for Electric Power and Heat).
MEE            =  Minislaubii Energiei Electrice (Ministry of Electrical
Energy).
ISPH           =  Institutul de Studii si Proiectari Hidroelectrice
(Institute of Hydroelectric Studies and Designs).
tSCM            =  Santier Constructu Montaj (Distribution Construction
Department).
ISPE           =  Institutul de Studii si Proiectari Energetice
(Institute of Power Studies and Designs).
Government of Romania
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
THE RIUL MARE-RETEZAT HYDROPOWER PROJECT
ROMANIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
STARY ...... ......... ..    i-ii
I .   INTRDDUCTION  ....................................... .........             1
II.   THE POWER AND ENERGY SECTOR   . ..                ..   ......                2
A.    Power and Energy Resources            .    .................          2
B.    Power and Energy Sector .....................                         4
C.    The Development Program .....................                         8
III.    THE PROJECT             ......................................               9
A.    Objectives  ................................ .                        9
B.    Description .......           ..........................              9
C.    Status of Engineering .....            ..................            10
D.    Cost Estimate .......           ........................             11
E. Financing   ..12
F.    Implementation  ...............        .. .............              13
G.    Environmental Impact . ...................... .                      15
IV.    THE PROJECT ENTITY  ...............................                        16
V.    FINANCE  ...         .......................................               16
A.    Past Performance and Present Position
of the Sector ........  ................. .                   16
B.    Financing Plan  ..............................                       18
C.    Future Performance ........... ...............                       20
D.    Accounts and Audit  . ........................ .                     21
VI.    BEMEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ....            ..................              21
VII.    AGREEMENTS REACaED AND RECOMENDATI(O  ............                          23
This report was prepared by Messrs. J.N.M. Green (Engineer), P.A. Cordukes
(Financial Analyst) and R. Bloor (Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. 1I contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont'd)
ANNEXES
1. Council of Ministers of the Socialist Republic of Romania - Decision
2. Energy Generation, Sales History and Forecast
3. Electric power tariffs
4. Electric Power System Capability and Maximum demand
5. Electric Power Sector Planting History and Forecast
6. Civil Engineering Design Aspects of the Project
7. Capital Estimate as of December, 1975
8.  Statement concerning  tConvention" regulating riparian interests
9. Program of Execution
10. Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
11. An Extract from the Ecological Report on the Impact of the Project
12. Income Statements for the Years 1973-1985
13. Balance Sheets for the Years 1973-1985
14. Sources and Applications of Funds 1973-1985
15. Notes and Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
16. Justification
17. Comparison with Alternatives
MAPS
Electricity System (IBRD 11790)
Riul Mare-Retezat Hydropower Project (IBRD 11791)



APPRAISAL OF
THE RIUL MARE-RETEZAT HYDROPOWER PROJECT
ROMANIA
Summary
i.        This report appraises a hydroelectric power Project for the Govern-
ment of Romania. The Project comprises a clay-cored rock-fill dam 173 meters
high to be constructed on the Riul Mare river. It includes a 335-MW tnder-
ground power station, Retezat, with two generating units and a smaller 14-MW
power station at Clopotiva. Retezat is in the Transylvanian mountain region
of Central-West Romania.
ii.       The total cost of the Project is estimated to be US$250.1 million
equivalent having a foreign exchange content of US$54 million towards which
a loan of US$50 million is proposed. This amount would represent about 20%
of the estimated cost of the Project and about 93% of the foreign exchange
costs. The remainder of the finance will come from internal sources of the
Industrial Central and the State Budget.
iii.      The Project is a part of the 1976-80 5-Year Plan of the Industrial
Central for Electric Power and Heat (CIEET) which collates and coordinates
the power sector production and investment plans for the Ministry of Electrical
Energy (MEE). Execution of the Project will be the responsibility of the
Hatzeg generating enterprise which has been established specifically for carry-
ing out the Project and associated future power developments. As in the case
of the first power loan 1028-RO, the Turceni Thermal Power Project, the Minis-
try's design institutes and construction trusts will design and construct the
Project works, and the loan will be made to the Investment Bank (IB). Construc-
tion started in the last quarter of 1974 with the upgrading of access roads.
The generating units are expected to be installed by the end of 1981 and the
dam construction to be completed in 1903. A detailed study of the impact of
the Project on the ecology of the area has been made. The Bank will seek the
Government's agreement to reduce to a minimum the adverse impact of the Project
on the environment. The proposed arrangements for the organization and imple-
mentation of the Project are acceptable.
iv.       Demand for power is expected to have increased 10% in 1975, about
7% p.a. in 1976-80 and 6% thereafter to 1985. The objective of the Project
is to supply a part of the peaking power needs of the system. The plant will
contribute directly and indirectly 469 MW and 739 GWh p.a. to the system in
an average water year. In 1985, the system primary peaking demand will be
of the order of 3,200 MW towards which the main hydro peaking stations in-
cluding the timely Riul Mare-Retezat Project would contribute 1,800 MW.



- ii -
v.        The Romanians have proposed a suitable list for the selection of
contracts covering goods to the full value of the loan, suitable for interna-
tional competitive bidding under the Bank's guidelines. It is expected that
Romanian suppliers would compete successfully such that local currency ex-
penditures totalling about US$39 million will be covered under the loan.
vi.       The CIEET's financial performance in 1973 and 1974 was not as good
as expected. The rates of return on average net fixed assets and working
capital declined from 4.6% in 1973 to 2.9% in 1974 compared with rates of about
5-6% expected at the time of the Turceni Appraisal. However, if taxes are
treated as a debt service item and not as an operating expense, these rates
of return improve to about 9%. Despite difficulties in meeting planned tar-
gets over the last 2 years these results still reflect satisfactory financial
performance. The CIEET investment plans for the Project construction period
1975-81 will require about IJS$4.4 billion. Internal sources are expected to
finance 33%, the State Budget 64% and IBRD loans including the proposed loan
about 3%. The forecasts for 1975-85 show the average contribution to invest-
ment from internal sources would be 31%. This level of performance would
be satisfactory in the Romanian context. As the power sector plans are inte-
grated with those of the rest of the economy, changes in the demand for funds
in the power sector are absorbed by the State budget. Tariffs and prices are
reviewed as part of the long-term planning process and any changes are reflected
in the forecasts for the economy as a whole thus preventing distortion during
plan implementation. Therefore, the Bank expects that the Government will re-
view electricity tariffs at 5-year plan intervals. The Government has described
its current policy and plans for the financing of the power sector and has
agreed in a supplemental letter to continue to furnish financial and economic
information to enable the Bank to evaluate benefits of the Project.
vii.      Though the Romanians used a mathematical model in 1972 to simulate
the power sector development which pointed to the need and appropriateness of
the Riul Mare-Retezat Project to meet system primary peaking demands, the
mission was not able to verify the result. The Borrower has agreed to provide
to the Bank an analysis of the future electric power sector development com-
plete with data and methodology used, before requesting it to consider fi-
nancing a further power project in Romania. A comparison with alternative
gas turbine and pumped storage projects showed the proposed Project to be
attractive.   The economic rate of return is estimated to be 6-1/2%.
viii.     A statement by Romania quoting from an existing relevant agreement
with Hungary declares that the Project does not infringe on the riparian rights
of Hungary.
ix.       In the circumstances of the agreements reached, the Project is suit-
able for a Bank loan of US$50 million to the Investment Bank with the guarantee
of the Government of Romania. A term for the loan of 20 years including 5
years of grace is proposed.



APPRAISAL OF
THE RIUL MARE-RETEZAT HYDROPOWER PROJECT
ROMANIA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Romania has requested a loan from the Bank to
finance the Riul Mare-Retezat Hydroelectric Project (the Project). Forming
part of the development plan of the electric power sector, the Project is to
be executed by the Hatzeg Enterprise which itself is an organ of the Indus-
trial Central for Electric Power and Heat (CIEET) under the control of the
Ministry of Electrical Energy (NEE). The Investment Bank (IB) will be the
Borrower.
1.02      The Project comprises a clay-cored, rock-fill dam across the Riul
Mare river with supplementary diversions of neighboring streams discharging
through a headrace tunnel to an underground power station with 335 MW of
plant delivering 605 GWh p.a. which in turn discharges in direct cascade to
an above ground power station having 14 MW of installed plant delivering 25
GWh p.a. Cascade power generating schemes on the Riul Mare downstream to its
confluence with the Strei river and thence along the Strei to its confluence
with the Mures river (Map IBRD 11791) can be enhanced by 141 MW of power and
111 GWh p.a. of energy output as a consequence of the water stored and re-
gulated by the Project dam. Connections will be made with the main 220-kV
transmission network.
1.03      The Project is estimated to cost US$250.1 million equivalent.  The
foreign cost is estimated to be US$54 million towards which a loan of US$50
million is proposed.
1.04      Finance for the Project was assured at the time the Council of Min-
isters approved the principal techno-economic indicators (para. 3.07) relating
to the investment. This approval was granted on December 20, 1974 by a "Deci-
sion" signed by the President of the Council of Ministers. The document
details the main parameters of the Project: physical, financial and opera-
tional as well as delegating certain powers and discretions to facilitate its
execution (Annex 1). However, the Government has requested Bank assistance
in meeting the foreign cost component.
1.05      The Bank has made one loan for the development of the Romanian power
sector; Loan 1028-RO of US$60 million in 1974, for a 1320-MWf steam power
plant burning lignite, including transmission lines at 400 kV and 110 kV some
600 km in length, and an associated switching station. Apart from disburse-
ment delays related to unfamiliarity with international competitive bidding
procedures, the project is progressing satisfactorily.



- 2 -
1.06      This report is based on a technical and economic study prepared by
the Institute of Hydroelectrical Studies and Desizns (ISPH) of the MEE entitled
"Riul Mare-Retezat UHE - Technical Economical Synthesis Studv" dated March 1975,
and the findings of a Bank mission consisting of Yessrs. 2. GrCe1. .  C&ordukes
and R. Bloor (Consultant) which visited Romania from June 4 to 24, 19715.
1.07      Whereas the appraisal of the first power loan was carried out through
the MEE, this appraisal was undertaken largely with the assistance of the
Investment Bank. The arrangement restricted the mission's access to informa-
tion and staff of the MEE who were better acquainted with the Bank's require-
ments for power sector loans, following the experience with the first loan.
The appraisal reflects the best judgments of the mission on the basis of the
information obtained.
II. THE POWER AND ENERGY SECTOR
A. Power and Energy Resources
2.01      Romania is nearly self-sufficient in energy resources which are
principally crude oil, natural gas, coal, lignite, and hydroelectricity; some
of this last is on international borders and shared with riparians. In addi-
tion, bituminous shale and geothermal resources are being investigated and
may prove to be exploitable.
Crude Oil
2.02      Crude oil production is approximately 14.5 million tons p.a. and
imports have risen gradually, standing at about 6 million tons in 1974. Ex-
ports of refined petroleum products have risen in parallel with imports and
were 4.6 million tons in 1974. Whilst the known indigenous reserves of oil
are expected to last only through this decade at the present rate of extrac-
tion, oil exploration including off-shore drilling in the Black Sea is in
hand, but prospects are uncertain.
Natural Gas
2.03      Natural gas reserves are estimated to last a further 30-50 years
at the present 30 billion m3 p.a. extraction rate. In recognition of the
dwindling reserves of oil and gas, the cost of oil in foreign exchange and
the value of gas as a chemical feed stock, the Government has placed an
embargo on their use for heating purposes in new plants including power sta-
tions. W4here possible, plants using oil or gas for heating are required to
be converted to an alternative fuel.



-3-
Fossil Fuels
2.04      Th- fossil fuel reserves are 90% lignite; 3,000 million tons are
estimated to be exploitable with present techniques, that is about one third
of the total deposits. Nearly all the lignite is found in Oltenia where by
1985 the ultimate capacity of the field is likely to be developed at 54 mil-
lion tons p.a. Of this output only 10.6 million tons p.a. is uncommitted and
available for use in plants to be commissioned in the period 1980-85. The
use of bituminous shales to the extent of 1.4 million tons p.a. is proposed
although the technology for its successful application is still not adequately
developed.
Hydro
2.05      The hydro resources of Romania are assessed at 12,300 MW capable
of providing 37,000 GWh p.a. from some 630 sites. Of this, 2,400 MW and 12,300
GWh p.a. is Romania's share of five installations on the river Danube. By
1975, 2,622 MW (22%) of the hydro resources had been developed and become
operational, and the Iron Gates I station on the Danube contributes 40% of this.
A further 1,800 MW (15%) of the resources is either under construction or com-
mitted. Of the uncommitted balance (7,878 MW), 17% is located in four sites
on the Danube and the remainder would need to be exploited in some 580 sites
having an average capacity of 11 MW and only a few of these will individually
contribute appreciably to the system capacity whilst most are at present too
expensive to justify development. The Riul Mare Project is the largest of the
remaining sites which can be exploited at an acceptable cost.
Geothermal
2.06      A new impetus has been given to the search for geothermal resources
in commercial quantities, but no information on this subject was made avail-
able.
Existing Facilities
2.07      By 1974, the total installed plant capacity of Romania of which 96%
is interconnected, was 10,676 MW delivering 46,301 GWh p.a. and meeting a
system demand of 7,470 MW during the December peak period. The apparently
large plant margin is a result of the restrictions introduced in November 1973
to cope with the oil crisis resulting in a reduced growth of demand. Details
of generation and sales 1970 to 1974 are given in Annex 2. The largest unit
sizes now being connected to the system are of 330-MW rating. Hydro plant
contributed 2,383 MW (22%) of system capacity and 8,399 GWh (18%) of the
energy. The interconnected system is shown on Map IBRD 11790 annexed hereto.



- 4-
International Power Connections
2.08      International power connections exist with Hungary at 400 kV, with
Czechoslovakia at 400 kV through USSR, with Bulgaria at 220 kV and a second
link with Yugoslavia is in preparation but not yet connected. At present,
exports of electric energy to Czechoslovakia, in payment for plant supplied,
are the main international transfers. Under this contract 2,000 GWh p.a.
are being exported to Czechoslovakia until 1980. Imports of energy and ca-
pacity are small and no reliance is placed on them.
B. The Power and Energy Sector
Organization of the Power Sector
2.09      The Ministry of Electrical Energy (MEE) administers the sector through
a board comprising the minister, three deputy ministers and the various direc-
tors of subordinated organizational units. The NEE presently employs in ex-
cess of 100,000 personnel and is responsible overall for the research, plan-
ning, design, construction and operation of all public power supply installa-
tions in Romania.
2.10      Among the various units subordinated to the NEE are design and re-
search institutes, training centers, construction trusts, foreign trade enter-
prises and a national dispatch center. It is the design institutes and the
construction trusts which are responsible to the MEE for the preparation,
design, construction and supervision of major power projects in Romania,
including the Riul Mare-Retezat Project.
2.11      Power generation, transmission and distribution facilities are op-
erated by enterprises which report to the Industrial Central for Electric
Power and Heat. (In addition to selling electric energy, some of the generat-
ing enterprises also sell heat, in the form of steam, to industrial and agri-
cultural undertakings.) The Central collates the 5-year and annual investment
and production plans of the enterprises, which are then submitted to the MEE.
Each enterprise prepares monthly production statements and balance sheets for
the Industrial Central, which serves as the head office of the enterprises
supervising their activities and reviewing their finances. The Industrial
Central has a staff of about 160 and is directed by one of the deputy minis-
ters of the NEE.
2.12      There are 16 generating enterprises employing about 17,000 staff
and 17 distribution enterprises with about 28,000 staff. A generating enter-
prise is a self accounting unit responsible for a single plant or a group of
generating plants covering a manageable regional area and distinguished by its
thermal and hydro character. The distribution enterprises are similar, but
within each is a distribution construction unit (SCM). Distribution works
up to 110 kV are designed by staff of the enterprises but the SCM units carry



- 5 -
out the construction. The SCM units employ about 4,000 staff and are inde-
pendent self-accounting departments of the distribution enterprises. There
are also two manufacturing/repair enterprises (about 4,000 staff) which sup-
ply and service the generation and distribution enterprises.
Legislation
2.13      The organizational units of the MEE including the Industrial Central
and its enterprises are basically subject to the same legislation 1/ as that
which regulates and controls all economic units in the Romanian socialist sys-
tem. Some of this legislation, which is implemented through Ministry of Fi-
nance instructions, covers matters ranging from depreciation rates, classifica-
tion of accounts, distribution and payment of benefits, to the preparation of
financial reports for the Central.
2.14      The Ministry of Electrical Energy has its own statutes or regulations
which prescribe the functions and use of electric energy. They incorporate the
tariff rates, conditions of supply and instructions on the application of the
regulations.
Management and Management Systems
2.15      Each enterprise is headed by a General Assembly of the Working People
which is represented by a Working Peoples Committee and an Operating Management
Collective.  The Assembly generally meets twice a year.  Similarly, the manage-
ment and direction of the Industrial Central and all other organizational units
of the MEE is directed by representatives of the people.  Executive responsi-
bility is in the hands of the general manager, (who is appointed by the min-
istry), assisted by an executive board. In the case of the NEE, the minister
and the heads of the respective organizational units have executive authority.
2.16      The best evaluation of the competence and the adequacy of the man-
agement and staff can be gauged from the performance of the sector. The min-
ister and the deputy minister of the MEE are technical specialists who have
been appointed from within the electric power sector, as is generally the
practice in technical sectors. Despite the very rapid growth of the system
over the last decade, staff of the enterprises appeared competent and knowl-
edgeable, exercising delegated authority and responsibility. Performance
trends per employee have been consistently upward in the past decade. Al-
though this undoubtedly reflects the general growth in the sector (e.g. in-
creasing sizes of generating units), the general impression gained is one of
increasing efficiency combined with productivity gains. Management methods
and decision-making processes, while following a procedural code and con-
strained by the dictates of standardization, employ modern tools and methods
for data collection and evaluation. The design institutes and the construc-
tion trusts of the MEE have proven performance records and they seem to be
largely independent of foreign consulting services.
1/   Law No. 11/71 - covers organization and management of the Centrals and
Enterprises. Decree No. 76/73 - covers organization and management of the
Ministries and other State Bodies.



6 
Insurance
2.17      Insurance of normal business risks is not practiced in Romania.
However, enterprises do set aside a small share of benefits (para. 2.20) to
cover unforeseen events. This reserve is sufficient to meet minor loss or
damage. The Government acts as its own insurer supporting enterprises which
suffer major losses arising from events beyond their control. Where normal
budget provisions are not adequate to meet the cost of replacement of a major
asset, specific provision is made in the next State Budget.
Tariffs
2.18      Tariffs are approved by the Council of Ministers and are uniform
throughout the country. They have been virtually unchanged since 1963 ex-
cept for some restructuring as from January 1974 which introduced additional
differential tariffs for low, medium and high voltage consumers (Annex 3).
These changes were expected to increase revenues by only about 1% in 1975 and
provide an average revenue per unit sold of .321 lei or US1.6 cents equiva-
lent. This restructuring has helped to better reflect the cost of supply in
distribution tariffs. Over 95% of the 4.8 million consumers are domestic who
use about 8% of energy generated and provide about the same proportion of
revenues. On the other hand large industrial consumers use more than 70% of
generation and provide about 66% of the revenues. In recent years tariffs
have adequately covered operating and administration costs and provided about
half of future investment needs. Little information was obtained on the ex-
tent to which the tariff structure reflects the marginal costs of supply.
It is clear that the Government broadly aims to keep power prices as low as
possible to foster industrial growth. During the next 1976-80 plan period
it is not proposed to increase tariffs; any increases in costs are expected
to be absorbed. Therefore tariff yields are expected to decline in real
terms up to 1980. After 1980 the proposed joint developments with neighbouring
countries, Iron Gates II and Turnu Maguarele with Yugoslavia and Nicopole with
Bulgaria are expected by the MEE to increase efficiency and reduce average
costs of production.
Financing of the Sector
2.19      Being part of a centrally planned economy, the power sector finan-
cial plans are integrated with those of all other sectors to form the Socio-
Economic Plan. This plan covers a 5-year period, currently 1976-80. Prior
to the commencement of each year, the annual production and investment plans
for each sector are collated and submitted by each Ministry to the State
Planning Committee and the Ministry of Finance, which coordinate all financial
needs into a Financial Plan. The main component of the Financial Plan is the
State Budget but the Financial Plan also includes self-financing of enterprises,
funds from depreciation, and foreign funds. The Socio-Economic Plan, the Fi-
nancial Plan and the State Budget are submitted through the Council of Minis-
ters for the approval of the National Assembly whereby they achieve the status



- 7 -
of law. Finance required to meet the production plans is allocated from State
Budget funds by the National Bank. Each enterprise is allowed a "minimum'
normal working capital calculated according to a prescribed formula and any
additional requirement can be obtained from the National Bank as a short term
loan. These loans are subject to a nominal rate of interest (2 to 5%) and are
available for periods of up to a maximum of 12 months.
2.20      The distribution of benefits or net income is planned when the an-
nual production plan is prepared. The first priority is a minimum contribu-
tion of 10% of net income, payable to the State Budget. The xworkers' share
of benefits, if the planned level of benefits has been attained, is then also
paid. This benefit normally amounts to 2% of the annual net wages bill and
is increased or reduced proportionally to the degree to which planned benefits
are exceeded or not met. Loans and working capital must be repaid and the
Industrial Central then receives a portion of benefits, sometimes as much as
70-80%, towards its re-investment requirements. Between 1% and 4% is left to
each Enterprise to improve social amenities and to cover capital revairs and
other minor investments. There is also a reserve fund not exceeding 0.5% to
meet expenditures on representation and unforeseen expenditures. Should there
be any balance remaining after the first distribution of benefits, a second
distribution is made but the amount allocated to the State Budget is shared
equally with the local administration budget. If an enterprise is unable
during the year to meet the planned distribution payments or other commitments,
and it is required to borrow additional working capital, such funds are sub-
ject to a penalty rate of interest of 12%. The determination of the level of
planned benefits is thus a fundamental part of the total planning process,
any decisions to vary earnings will have an impact not only on funds available
for reinvestment in the sector, but also on the State Budget and the Financial
Plan for the country, and most importantly on the workers.
2.21      The investment plans are prepared separately from the production
plans and are based on projects approved by the delegated authority; the
enterprise, the Industrial Central, the MEE or the Council of Ministers.
Projects estimated to cost in excess of 70 million lei (US$3.5 million equiv-
alent) are approved by the Council of Ministers after careful vetting and
analysis by the MEE, the Investment Bank and the State Planning Cornittee.
Projects estimated to cost 30 million lei and up to 70 million lei are ap-
proved by the MEE; projects estimated to cost 10 million lei and up to 30
million lei by the Industrial Central. Up to 10 million lei, projects can
be approved by the enterprise.
2.22      Investment expenditure is financed firstly from internal sources,
a predetermined portion of planned benefits, depreciation funds and other
sources (largely the sale of scrap material and obsolete equipment). The
remainder is provided by way of allocations from the State Budget or in the
form of loans from the Investment Bank. The latter at the present time are



- 8 -
not significant in amount. However, the Investment Bank does play a signi-
ficant role in the allocation and expenditure of all investment funds in that
it is responsible for authorizing all investment expenditures in accordance
with the approved plans. It has staff in all districts who review the
progress of investment projects, ensure that expenditures are properly au-
thorized and finally arrange the transfer of funds effecting payment.
2.23      In practice the Industrial Central coordinates the sector finances.
Each enterprise pays its depreciation, planned share of benefits and taxes
twice monthly from its revenues. Depreciation funds, which are treated as
real expense items, are paid to the Investment Bank for the credit of the
Industrial Central, and other items to the National Bank for the credit of
the State.
C. The Development Program
2.24      The power sector development program is evolved by the MEE using
its specialized agencies: the Institute of Power Studies and Designs (ISPE),
and the Institute of Hydroelectric Studies and Designs (ISPH), which use data
supplied by the various generating and distributing enterprises throughout
the country. The power development plans are closely coordinated with the
5-year national development plans and are reviewed annually. The present
cycle ends in 1975 to be followed by the 1976-1980 plan. Annex 4 shows the
planned generation plant development and Annex 5 gives the make-up in greater
detail. Since the oil crisis in 1973 there have been several revisions of
the load forecasts, each successively more conservative; but the planting pro-
gram has not yet been adjusted to reflect the lower requirements. This report
has assumed annual sales increases of 7% for the years 1976-80 followed by
increases of 6% to 1985, which are conservatively realistic and use as a
starting point the forecasts for 1975. On this basis, the system firm plant
capacity in 1976 will be greater than needed by about one year's demand growth.
By 1983 some 4,900 M of installed plant would be in excess of the system needs
(some 3 years too soon) if the rate of development does not exceed the assump-
tions which are at the low end of the probability range. ISPE has mathematical
models for the study of the economic development of the power system as well
as for the analysis of plant reserve margins, system demand forecasting, etc.,
which are based on up to date techniques as used in other countries having
systems of similar and greater complexity. Their methods have been presented
at international conferences. The Bank has sought and obtained the Borrower's
agreement to provide an analysis of the future electric power sector develop-
ment. Such analysis, including the data and methodology used, is to be provided
to the Bank before requesting it to consider financing a further power project
in Romania.
2.25      The power development plan provides for maximum utilization of
indigenous lignite and hydro resources. By 1980 some 3,930 M1 of lignite-
fuelled plant will be consuming about 33 million tons p.a. Allowing that



- 9 -
after 1980 the second stage of the Turceni project will be commissioned re-
quiring 11 million tons p.a., the full potential of the Oltenia deposit, which
contains nearly all the country's reserves, will have been absorbed unless
the life of the lignite field is reduced from 70 years as now foreseen.
2.26      The development of hydro resources is geared, as one would expect,
to the preferential exploitation of those giving the higher return on invest-
ment and limited to those comparable with their appropriate thermal alterna-
tives. With the exception of Danube river schemes (1350 H4), the remaining
uncommitted hydro potential (7878 MW) is best suited for development to meet
the system peaking demands.
2.27      The commissioning of 440 MW of nuclear plant in 1981/82, followed
by 1,090 MW in 1983 and 650 MW in 1985, is planned. Negotiations are actively
in hand for the supply of equipment, know-how and manufacturing licences.
2.28      The extension of supplies to the rural community has been actively
pursued since 1960 and is now virtually complete excepting only such remote
locations as are unlikely to be connected to the main system. For practical
purposes electric power is available to all inhabitants of the country.
IIT. THIE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      The Project is the key component of a cascade development on the
Riul Mare and Strei rivers. It is designed to supply a part of the peaking
power needs of the system and all cascade stations will serve the same pur-
pose, except that at any stage of development, the lowest station will serve
to reregulate the flow in the river downstream of the cascade and supply base
load power.
B. Description
3.02      The Project comprises the following works (see map IBRD 11791).
(a)  A reservoir called Gura Apelor to be formed by a clay-cored,
rock-fill dam, Tomeasa, 173 m high across the valley of the
Riul Mare in the neighborhood of Mount Retezat from which the
Project takes its name.  A high pressure tunnel 18.4-km long
conveys the reservoir releases to the Retezat underground
power plant of 335 MW having two units working with a gross
head of 583 m. The tailrace of Retezat is also the headrace
of the above-ground 14-MW powerhouse, Clopotiva, which uses a
head of 25 m. There are 25 secondary intakes which collect



- 10 -
water from adjacent streams and drop it into the pressure
tunnel or convey it through a tunnel 34 km long to Gura Apelor
reservoir.
(b)  Transmission lines at 110 kV will interconnect the Retezat-
Clopotiva power stations and 220-kV lines will connect the
Retezat power station with the existing system at Barul Mare.
(c)  Roadworks needed for the execution of the Project are in hand.
These will later serve general communication and tourism pur-
poses; but since the standard of construction will be no
greater than required for the Project purposes, they are con-
sidered a charge to the Project.
3.03      The first cascade power station downstream of Clopotiva power sta-
tion is called Ostrovul-Mic. The headpond of this station will be completed
before the commissioning of the Project works and will be able to reregulate,
to an acceptable pattern, the short duration flows (about 5 hr per day) from
the Project. The cost of this work is attributed to the development of the
Ostrovul-Mic power station. Because reregulation is essential for the opera-
tion of the Project, the Loan Agreement includes the Ostrovul-Mic works as part
of the project description although they form part of a separate stage of the
river development.
C. Status of Engineering
3.04      The design institute, ISPH, has a long record of activity with some
39 hydroelectric schemes completed and commissioned by 1974. A further 18
schemes are actively under construction or have recently been commissioned.
By way of illustration, Iron Gates I of 2,100 MW on the Danube was engineered
in collaboration with Yugoslavia: the highest head developed by ISPH is in
the Ciunget Lotru power station, where a discharge of 80 cubic meters per
second under a head of 809 m through 3 pelton wheel turbines delivers 510 MW,
and at the Arges power station 4 Francis turbines under a head of 324 m
deliver 220 MW. The Project thus lies within the scope of experience of
ISPH. The choice of Francis type turbines is appropriate for the size of
the proposed units operating under a head of 583 m gross because there are
difficulties dimensionally in providing an adequate number of nozzles around
the periphery of a pelton wheel which is the alternative type suitable for
the operating head. The selection of the type of dam and the choice of its
height has been carefully made taking all the usual factors into consideration.
Annex 6 gives a more detailed evaluation of civil engineering aspects. Engine-
ering designs are as well developed as is usual at this stage of the Project.
The Borrower has provided in the design of the dam for the inclusion of moni-
toring instruments to observe stability throughout its life. The Borrower has
undertaken to cause the hydroworks, including the dams, to be inspected regu-
larly in accordance with appropriate engineering practice for the safety of
the structures and their operation.



- 11 -
D. Cost Estimate
3.05   -  The estimated cost of the Project (Annex 7), excluding interest
during construction, is US$250.1 million (lei 5,002 million) of which the esti-
mated foreign exchange cost is US$53.8 million if it is assumed, as is
likely, that Romanian suppliers will win all contracts under conditions of
international competitive bidding (i.c.b.), in which they compete. A summary
of the cost estimate is shown below:
Lei millions               US$ millions        Project
Project Element         Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Cost
A. Civil works &
plant erection    2,855      801   3,656    142.7    40.1   182.8   73.1
B. Electrical &
Mechanical
equipment            236       29     265      11.8     1.5    13.3    5.3
C. Transmission lines
& roads              140        5     145       7.0     0.2      7.2    2.9
D. Management, engi-
neering and other
costs                178        -     178       8.9       -      8.9    3.5
Sub-total          3,409      835   4,244    170.4    41.8   212.2   84.8
Contingency allowances:
Physical/a            323       84      407    16.2       4.2    20.4    8.2
Price/b               194      157      351      9.7      7.8    17.5    7.0
Sub-total            517      241      758    25.9    12.0    37.9   15.2
Total Project
Cost               3,926   1,076    5,002   196.3    53.8   250.1  100.0
Note:  Figures in this Table have been rounded.
/a   10% on Project elements A, B and C.
/b   2% p.a. on Project elements A and C and 7-1/2% p.a. on direct foreign
component of A and total of B.



- 12 -
3.06      The cost estimate is based on that of ISPH updated to December 1975,
having been discussed with all the executing agencies, and is in conformity
with the system of regulated prices that applies in Romania. Where scheduled
rates are not determined, the Decision document of the Council of Ministers
lays down the guidelines for costing purposes (Annex 1). Whereas the system
of fixed prices tends to provide ample margins and physical contingencies up
to 5% are allowed, this estimate has added price contingencies at the rate of
2% p.a. on local works and supplies. In the controlled situation in Romania,
price escalation has hitherto been negligible, but 2% p.a. is considered
prudent and adequate to reflect conditions in the execution period. For foreign
goods directly imported as well as the electrical and mechanical equipment for
the power stations, the estimate has assumed a price increase of 7-1/2% in the
project execution period. The physical contingencies allowed in this estimate
were assessed at 10% on the base costs of the construction works, i.e., civil
works, electro-mechanical equipment of the power stations and transmission
lines.
E. Financing
3.07      The Project is an integral part of Romania's 5-Year Plan 1976-80
for the electric power sector and will be financed as part of the development
program of the CIEET. It represents about 6% of the US$4.4 billion (equivalent)
investment requirements of the CIEET during the construction period (1975-81).
About 33% of the required funds will be derived from internal sources and most
of the remainder will be provided from the State Budget. In addition to the
CIEET investment, the HUNEDOARA Council, in whose county the Project will be
located, will contribute 95 million lei for modernizing access roads and the
MEE will provide 74 million lei for transmission links, substations and river
regulation. The decision of the Council of Ministers No. 1612 dated December 20,
1974 which has approved the technical and economic indicators for the Project
constitutes the Government authorization for project construction and the ex-
penditures to be incurred. At the Bank's request an official copy of the Deci-
sion was provided at negotiations.
3.08      The proposed Bank loan of US$50 million is expected to finance about
20% of the estimated cost of the project of US$250.1 million. It has been
assumed that the Bank loan would be for a term of 20 years including a 5-year
period of grace subject to interest at 8-1/2%. The loan would be made to
the Investment Bank, which is responsible for authorization and control of
investment expenditure in the power sector. It would be guaranteed by the
Government of the Socialist Republic of Romania. As in the case of the first
power loan for the Turceni Thermal Power Project, the Investment Bank would meet
the debt service on the Bank loan and has agreed that the sum of the annual
benefits and provision for depreciation of the Hatzeg Enterprise would, after
the Project is completed in 1981, be sufficient to cover the debt service pay-
ments on the Bank loan. Proposals for formal onlending of Bank loans to ben-
eficiary enterprises are still being considered. After the Project is complete,



- 13 -
the assets which are taken on charge will be valued, if imported and financed
out of the proceeds of the loan, using a rate of exchange of US$1 = 20 lei.
Duties on isprted iteus will be included. Where items are manufactured in
Romania and financed under the loan, it is understood that they will be valued
according to Rommnian foreign trade prices.
3.09      Since, under the Romanian system, any changes in prices are not
applied to projects for which the Council of Ministers have approved the
technical and economic indicators unless supplementary approval for the in-
creased cost of imports has been obtained (although this is reportedly seldom
done, but has happened in the case of the previous power loan), the need for
financing of a possible cost overrun as a result of price increases should
not arise. Prior to the approval of the indicators, firm contract prices have
been established with the suppliers of plant and the construction trusts for
the civil and electro mechanical works. However, should additional funds be
required they would be provided in the first instance from resources of the
CIEET or if they proved to be insufficient from the State Budget.
F. Implementation
3.10      An enterprise responsible for the execution of the Project and centred
at Hatzeg, has been established which will also be responsible for the further
hydropower development of the Riul Mare and Strei rivers. This is suitable
for the effective implementation and operation of the Project. Prior to the
creation of the Hatzeg enterprise, the Project was the responsibility of the
Cluj enterprise.
3.11      The Project will alter the pattern of flow of the Riul Mare which
has a mean annual flow of 457 x 106m3 at the dam site. With exception of the
period needed to fill the Gura Apelor reservoir, this volume of water will
still join the Strei river annually. The Strei river flows into the Mures
which enters Hungary near the town of Arad. In Hungary the Mures joins the
Tisa and eventually reaches the Danube in Yugoslavia. A riparian interest
can be said to exist. The mean annual flow of the Mures at the Hungarian
border with Romania is 5200 x 106m3 which means that the Project influences
the Mures conditions to a minor degree by reducing flows in flood seasons and
increasing flows in the dry periods. Map IBRD 11790 illustrates the relevant
catchment areas. The Romanian authorities have stated that the Project is
not harmful to other riparians and the mission agrees with this view. Regarding
Romania's association with Hungary, there is an agreement between them in
respect of the Mures river which regulates the development in the river course
extending 34.5 km upstream of the border. As the Project is beyond this limit,
the Government has stated that no riparian problem arises. A written statement
quoting from an existing "Convention" between Romania and Hungary dealing with
riparian interests has been received (Annex 8) and is acceptable.



- 14 -
3.12      Land acquisition and wayleaves are within the competence of the
Ministries to arrange, and mechanisms for the resolution of such matters
exist and are part of the normal Project execution process once the invest-
ment is decided and authorized. Compensation in accordance with published
scales is paid to farmers, cooperatives and others whose productive capacity
or facilities will be detrimentally affected, and some payments have already
been made. The site of the Project is virtually uninhabited by man and human
resettlement is not a problem.
Construction
3.13      The construction of the Project started in the last quarter of 1974
with the upgrading of the access roads. Diversion of the Riul Mare is pro-
posed in early 1977, and the first turbine delivery is scheduled for the third
quarter of 1978 followed by its generator in early 1979. Commissioning of
the first unit of the Retezat station should be complete by the end of 1980
followed by the second unit a year later. The Clopotiva units are to be
commissioned in the first and second quarters of 1982. W4hereas the filling
of the dam will have reached minimum operating level in 1980, dam construc-
tion will continue through 1983 at which time the upper levels of the asphaltic
membrane will be completed (Annex 9). This construction schedule is considered
realistic.
3.14      The organizations that will execute the Project works are the
following:
(a) Trustul de Constructii Hidroenergetice (T.C.H.) which is the
Hydropower Construction Trust. This organization was founded
in 1950 and has completed more than 2,400 MW of installed hydro
capacity. The scope of wrork undertaken covers the full range
of civil engineering needs of such works-
(b)  Trustul Energo Montaj (T.EnM), which is the Electro-mechanical
Construction Trust, performs the erection and commissioning of
the electro-mechanical plant in the power stations. T.EnM can
claim an even wider experience since it performs the erection
services in both hydro and thermal power plants:
(c) Trustul Electro Montaj (TEM) is the Transmission and Substation
Construction Trust which in its own field is as experienced
as its sister organizations;
(d) Various other organizations concerned with roads, water supply,
forestry, game and fisheries will take part.



- 15 -
Procurement
3.15      The Decision of the Council of Ministers which provides approval for
the Project presupposes that all works will be executed by the construction
trusts of the MEE and that the plant will be manufactured in Romanian factories,
and sets the limit on the amount of foreign currency which may be expended on
the purchase of goods from foreign sources. In this case, lei valuta 0.688
million (US$103,000 equivalent) is authorized for expenditure in COMECON
countries and lei valuta 3.41 million (US$686,000 equivalent) is authorized
for expenditure in convertible currency areas. These sums provide for the
direct foreign procurement needs of the executing enterprise, but exclude
foreign procurement by other entities such as the civil construction con-
tractor and plant manufacturing enterprises. There is no assumption made
that Bank finance will become available. The limits set by the Decision No.
1612 may be exceeded should the cost of imported equipment prove to be higher
than estimated and also in the event that foreign suppliers win contracts under
i.c.b. that would otherwise have been supplied from Romania. It has been
recorded in agreed minutes of negotiations that the Project will be implemented
taking into account the needs of the Project and the conditions set out in the
Loan Agreement specifying the eligibility of funds for disbursement. Thus,
the terms of Decision 1612 are not to be construed as being limiting in this
sense.
3.16      At negotiations, the Romanians represented a list of goods for se-
lection to the full amount of the loan, suitable for i.c.b. under the Bank's
guidelines, and this is recorded in a                      to the Loan Agreement.
It is expected that Romanian supplie         r ii     esuE.essfully for all con-
tracts for which they submit bids and a domestic preference of 15% would be
applied or the applicable customs duty, whichever is the lesser. In this event
local currency expenditures to the extent of about US$39 million would be
covered under the loan.
Disbursements
3.17      Disbursements from the proposed Bank loan would be made for 100% of
the foreign exchange cost or ex-factory cost of equipment and supplies. Any
funds remaining undisbursed after completion of the Project would be cancelled.
The closing date for disbursements is expected to be December 31, 1981. The
estimated quarterly disbursement schedule is given in Annex 10.
G. Environmental Impact
3.18      The Project is in a mountainous area exceeding 900 m above sea
level, beautifully scenic and richly endowed with flora and fauna. A national
park, which includes a special scientific reserve, has been established for
many years (Map IBRD 11791). The relevant authorities concerned with such



- 16 -
matters have made a detailed study of the impact of the Project on the ecology
of the area and have made certain recommendations regarding the design and
management of the Project in this regard (Annex 11). As a direct result of
the study, the main pressure tunnel from the Gura Apelor reservoir has been
relocated from the right bank of the river to the left. The secondary intake
tunnel which traverses the national park will be excavated so as to place the
adits outside the scientific reserve, and road access will be arranged to
cause a minimum of disturbance. Abstractions of water to the secondary in-
takes have been restricted in accordance with the recommendations of the
ecological study. No additional measures are considered necessary. The
appraisal mission is satisfied that all those aspects, that are within the
competence of the power authorities, will be respected. The Borrower has under-
taken to cause the Project to be carried out in conformity with appropriate
ecological and environmental practices and to report on these matters at
regular intervals in accordance with the reporting requirements recorded in
a Supplemental Letter to the Loan Agreement.
IV. THE PROJECT ENTITY
4.01      The designated Project Entity is the Hatzeg Generating Enterprise
which was set up in March 1976.
4.02      The organization and management of enterprises is according to well
tried patterns and is effective. At the same time there are organizational
research departments both in the MEE and the CIEET responsible for constant
review and improvement of these matters. The impression gained by the mission
is that the systems and structures are appropriate and comparable with ef-
fective systems in other countries.
4.03      The staff employed, especially in the engineering fields, is well
qualified and experienced according to the needs for the job. In the field
of accountancy, there are indications that accounting is used principally as
a means of recording historical data and is constrained by the rigid system
of standardization of presentation. More analytical methods geared to modern
decision-making practices would be beneficial; but whilst the rigid central
planning system prevails it is doubtful whether there would be adequate scope
for the application of such techniques.
V. FINANCE
A. Past Performance and Present Position of the Sector
5.01      In the appraisal report for the first power loan, the Turceni
Thermal Power Project, a review was made of the financial performance of the
enterprises in the Romanian power sector for the years 1970-72 inclusive.



- 17 -
During these years the sector was co-ordinated by two centrals. However, from
April 1, 1973 a single central (the Industrial Central for Electric Power and
Heat - CIEET) was established. The financial performance of the sector for
the years 1973-74 as recorded by the CIEET is presented in Annexes 12-14.
5.02      The Turceni appraisal was conducted at the time of the 1973 "energy
crisis" which the Government of Romania responded to by enacting a decree
aimed at rigid conservation of fuel and energy. In particular, the structure
of electricity tariffs was revised and average revenue from electricity sales
(1973 .313 lei per kWh) was expected to increase about 1.4% by 1975 as a
result of the revised tariffs. Sales in GWh were expected to increase 11.3%
in 1973, 15.3% in 1974 and 9.8% in 1975. In fact actual sales growth in these
years was only 4.7% and 9.1% respectively and the forecast for 1975 was for
an unrealistic 18% increase.
5.03      The operating results for 1973 and 1974 were not as good as forecast
not only because of the reduction in sales but also because the average costs
per unit sold of .268 lei or USO1.34 (1973) and .264 lei or USJ1.32 (1974)
were 15-16% above the appraisal estimate prepared for the Turceni project.
Substantial increases in fuel prices effective January 1974 were absorbed
without any corresponding adjustment to tariffs. Despite the increased fuel
prices, overall savings in fuel costs were achieved because of the reduction
in thermal generation but they were more than offset by increased operation,
maintenance and administrative expenses.  Wage increases of the order of 8%
were made during 1974 reflecting productivity gains during the 5-year plan
period which commenced in 1971. In addition social security contributions
were increased from 11% to 15% of gross wages as from January 1, 1974.
5.04      At the beginning of 1974, taxes on the production of electric and
thermal energy were repealed and a new tax (or interest) of 4% was introduced
to be applied to invested funds, i.e. the value of net fixed assets at the
beginning of the year and working capital funds. The new tax provided about
900 million lei in additional revenue to the State Budget in 1974 and repre-
sented about 20% of total operating revenues, by comparison with the production
tax which took up about 14% of operating revenues.
5.05      The net effect of the reduced sales, increased costs and the revised
taxation provisions was to reduce net income in 1973 by about 0.4 billion lei
or 16% and in 1974 by about 1.7 billion lei or 53%. The rate of return on
average net fixed assets and working capital declined from 4.6% in 1973 to 2.9%
in 1974 compared with expected rates of about 5-6%. However, if the tax on
invested funds were to be treated as an interest charge which it is, and not as
an operating expense, the rates of return for these years would improve to 8.7%
and 8.8% respectively. For the purposes of this report and future financial
analysis within the Romanian power sector, this tax will be treated as an
interest charge.



- 18 -
5.06      No significant change in the financial position of the power sector
is reflected in the 1973 and 1974 balance sheets of the CIEET which are included
in Annex 13. There is no long-term debt and consequently no debt service
commitment 1/ (except for commitment fees on the Turceni Thermal Power Project
loan which was signed July 10, 1974). Although investment expenditures exceeded
previously planned estimates by 1 billion lei (about 7%), gross fixed assets
only increased in value by about 12.5% (1970-72, 14.5%) to 70.7 billion lei
(about US$3.5 billion equivalent). The value of fixed assets continues to be
based on recorded costs and the level of inflation remains insignificant
although a comprehensive review of prices has been carried out under Law No.
19/1971 during the last 2-3 years. Slightly more than half of the CIEET invest-
ment requirements in 1973 and 1974 came from internal sources. The remainder
was provided from the State Budget. Because of reduction in net income, State
Budget allocations were increased by 1.9 billion lei (32%) and the 10% min-
imum contribution to the State Budget normally payable under the Benefits
Law (No. 858 of 1973) was waived for 1974.
5.07      Despite the difficulties in meeting the planned targets over the
years 1973 and 1974 the CIEET's accounts reflect satisfactory financial perfor-
mance. However, they do reflect the need for more careful review of forecasts
so that they realistically reflect the impact of changing circumstances e.g.
impact of the energy Decree. Although the forecasts may not always be
achieved, CIEET's financial viability will not be jeopardized because the
plans of the Industrial Central are a part of the national Socio-Economic Plan
which is financed from State sources.
B. Financing Plan
5.08      The forecast sources and applications of funds of the CIEET for the
period 1975-85 are given in Annex 14. A condensed version for the Project
construction period 1975-81 is given below:
1/   Although "interest on invested funds" is shown under "debt service" in
Annex 14, it is not strictly debt service since it is calculated on the
volume of funds invested in fixed assets and working capital. However,
"debt service" is considered the most appropriate heading under which to
show it.



- 19 -
1975-1981
(Millions of Lei)           _
Sources of Funds
Internal Sources
Benefits Reinvested                            33,650                   38
Depreciation Reinvested                        26,425                   30
Sales of Scrap etc.                               584                    1
Gross Internal Sources                            60,659                   69
Less:  Debt Service                              (31,199)                 (36)
Net Internal Sources                              29,460                   33
External Sources
State Budget Allocations                       55,763                   64
Investment Bank Loans                             292                    -
Existing IBRD Loan                              1,200                    2
Proposed IBRD Loan                              1,000                    1
Total External Sources                            58,255                   67
Total Sources of Funds                            87,715                  100
Construction Requirements
Proposed Riul Mare-Retezat Hydropower
Project (including interest during
construction)                                     5,225 /1                 6
Other Construction                                82,490                   94
Total Construction Requirements                   87,715                  100
/1   Total interest during construction on the Project is 223 million lei.
5.09      It can be seen from the above table that the CIEET investment program
will require about 87.7 billion lei (USS4.4 billion equivalent). Internal
sources are expected to finance 33%, the State Budget 64% and IBRD loans in-
cluding the proposed loan about 3%.
5.10      At the time of the Turceni appraisal, it was decided in discussions
with the MEE that for the purposes of the Bank's forecasts 70% of total
benefits should be assumed to be available for reinvestment in the CIEET
expansion program. This assumption has not been followed for the purposes of
the present analysis since new principles are being considered for adoption
from the start of the new 5-Year Plan period in 1976 to simplify the process
of distribution of benefits in order to eliminate transfer from enterprises to
the budget which are subsequently returned as budget allocations. Under the
existing benefits law, a minimum contribution to the State budget of 10% is
required. In 1974 the contributions to the budget were waived (para. 5.06)
and only nominal amounts of 300 million lei in each of the years 1975-80 and
400 million lei in each of the years 1981-85 have been provided at the insti-
gation of the MEE and the CIEET.



- 20 -
5.11      The 1975-81 investment program prepared by the CIEET has been pro-
portionally reduced by the mission by about 7% to match its best estimate of
the most probable growth in energy sales. One of the principal reasons for
presenting a reduced program is that the CIEET is required to reflect nationally
planned targets in the forecasts even though they appear unrealistic. This
was confirmed during negotiations by the Romanians who informed the Bank that
actual sales for 1975 fell short of the planned target by about 8%. The rea-
son given for this shortfall was mainly the restrictions imposed by the Govern-
ment on the use of energy as a result of the world energy crisis. As a result
the figures, particularly those for sales of energy and the investment plan
for the 1976-80 5-year plan, have been revised subject to approval by the
Government expected in April 1976. The Bank expects that the decisions taken
or to be taken by the Government which will be reflected in the approved 5 year
plan for 1976-80 will confirm the assumptions in this report with respect to
sales growth and the investment plans for the power sector. Following review
of the 1976-80 5-year plan, the Government have undertaken in a supplemental
letter to furnish the results of their review to the Bank.
C. Future Performance
5.12      The financial forecasts 1975-85 prepared by the CIEET were based on
an 18% increase in energy sales in 1975 and thereafter an annual average growth
rate of about 7% to 1985. These sales growth rates produced rates of return
on average net fixed assets in service and working capital (when calculated on
the same basis as for the Turceni Report), ranging from a high of 3.3% in 1975
to a low of 0.5% in 1985 (Turceni 4-6% 1975-80). The reduced rates of-return
can be attributed to two principal factors: firstly, operation, maintenance
and administration costs which were previously expected to decline between
1975 and 1980 in terms of cost per unit sold by about 26% but are now expected
to remain at about 1973 levels because of the restructuring of internal prices,
and secondly the revised taxing mechanism. The projections also showed an
average contribution to investment from internal sources of 38% by comparison
with 46% for Turceni (1973-80).
5.13      In the light of recorded sales growth in 1973 of 4.7% and 1974 of
9.1% and after discussion with staff of the MEE and the CIEET, the sales fore-
casts have been revised and the financial forecasts have been recalculated to
reflect the revised estimates and are shown in Annexes 12-14. Details of
assumptions used for these forecasts are given in Annex 15. Operating costs
have been assumed to be constant. However, no increases in tariffs have been
assumed. If the new tax on invested funds is treated as an interest rate,
rates of return ranging from 8.4% in 1975 to 4.5% in 1985 are obtained. The
forecasts for 1975-85 show the average contribution to investment from internal
sources would be 31%. This level of performance would be satisfactory in the
Romanian context and the decline in the forecast financial performance to 1985
is not viewed with concern because the Bank expects that the Government will



- 21 -
review electricity tariffs before 1985 and very likely at the end of the 1976-80
5-year plan. Under the Romanian economic system, increasing costs or a higher
level of investment than planned is not normally rectified by increasing prices
in one particular sector. As the power sector plans are integrated with those
of the rest of the economy, changes in the demand for funds in the power sector
are absorbed by the State budget. Varying the level of taxes and contributions
to the State budget can also be used to improve financial performance of the
sector. Tariffs and prices are normally reviewed as part of the long-term
planning process so as to ensure that any changes are reflected in the fore-
casts prepared for the economy as a whole thus preventing distortion during
plan implementation. They are not adjusted to reflect changing costs or supply
and demand as in market economies.
5.14      Since the Bank's conventional financial covenants have been found to
be incompatible with the Romanian economic system, as in the case of the first
power project, no financial covenants have been sought. Instead, the Govern-
ment has described its current policy and plans for the financing of the power
sector. The Borrower has agreed in a supplemental letter to continue to fur-
nish financial and economic information to enable the Bank to evaluate the
benefits of the Project to the Romanian economy and the position of the Hatzeg
Enterprise in the Romanian power sector. There will continue to be reasonable
opportunity for representatives of the power sector and the Bank to discuss
this information.
D. Accounts and Audit
5.15      The Investment Bank will continue the auditing arrangements agreed
for the Turceni power loan i.e. that it will furnish to the Bank independent
audit reports on its financial statements and those of the Industrial Central
and the Project enterprise (Hatzeg). The reports will be prepared by the
Ministry of Finance and submitted to the Bank within three months of the end
of each fiscal year except in the case of Investment Bank itself for which an
audit report will be submitted within four months of the end of each fiscal
year.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The power system would be improved to the extent of the value of the
peak load capacity of the Project. As described in greater detail in Annex
16 the plant will contribute directly and indirectly 469 MW and 739 GWh p.a.
in an average water year or less than 2% of the system needs in 1989 when
this benefit will mature in full.
6.02      In 1985, the system primary peaking demand i.e. in excess of base
load and secondary peaking requirements, will be of the order of 3,200 MW
towards which the main hydro peaking stations including Riul Mare-Retezat would



- 22 -
contribute 1,800 MW. The 1,400 MW of peaking demand remaining would be con-
tributed by other base and secondary peak load plants such as the Danube
schemes. Very short duration peaks can also be met by the use of gas turbines
of which there are presently 109 MW. Despite the fall off of system demand
growth in 1973/74, the Project is timely.
Return on Investment
6.03      The Romanians used a mathematical model in 1972 to simulate the
power sector development which under the conditons then applicable indicated
that, by 1985, the development options still open to choice pointed to the need
and appropriateness of the Riul Mare-Retezat Project to meet system primary
peaking demands. Annex 16 gives a brief summary of the assumptions used and
the outcome of the analysis. The results indicate that under any of the
assumed conditions of fuel importation, fuel cost, and specific investment cost
for nuclear plant, there is a place in 1985 for hydro peaking capacity to the
extent of 400 MW, and the Riul Mare Project with its associated downstream
cascade development fills this need being the cheapest of the hydro schemes
from which a choice could be made. It has not been possible to examine the
1972 calculations nor in other ways to verify the result. However, it is
evident from discussions that the exercise was not undertaken for purely
academic reasons and that it is likely to have played a part in the development
of the program now being followed. The conclusions regarding the development
of other types of generation, particularly of base load plant, have undoubted-
ly been altered to comply with the Government embargo on the further use of
oil or gas for industrial heating processes of which power generation is con-
sidered to be one.
6.04      A comparison with a gas-turbine and a pumped storage type of alter-
native made by the ISPH (Annex 17) shows that the equalizing discount rate is
not less than 10% and that higher rates would apply if the cost of fuel were
set at US$100 per ton as opposed to the US$66 per ton used in the comparison.
As noted in para. 3.06, by virtue of the fixed pricing systems used for goods
and services in Romania, costs can be estimated reliably and economic com-
parisons are not sensitive to this reliability factor.
6.05      Aside from the output of electric power, other benefits are associ-
ated with the Project. River regulation will provide a perennially secure
flow in the Riul Mare and Strei rivers, the Gura Apelor reservoir recreational
benefits and road works which by extension beyond the Project area will serve
to improve communications. Such benefits are judged to be relatively small
and would not materially influence the Project's justification.
6.06      The internal rate of return on the Project is estimated to be
6-1/2% (Annex 16) if benefits are measured by incremental revenue attribut-
able to the Project and financial costs are adjusted for taxes and other
internal transfers. The return of 6-1/2% is not susceptible to the inter-
pretation that could be placed upon it in a market economy, in which it
could be compared with the opportunity cost of capital and therefore provide
an indication of the extent to which consumers' willingness to pay is being



- 23 -
used to signal Project justification, and is thus not an appropriate indicator.
The Romanian power tariffs which have been used to gauge the least level of
benefits attributable to the Project have, in the past, been adequate to gen-
erate a 40-50% cash contribution to investments in the sector, and as such
have been at satisfactory levels (para 2.18). It is likely that increasing
real costs of power sector development will lead to higher real tariffs (para
5.13). In this case, the rate of return would be commensurately higher.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following principal
issues:
(a) the Investment Bank has agreed to provide to the Bank an
analysis of the future electric power sector development
complete with data and methodology used, before requesting
it to consider financing a further power project in Romania
(para 2.24);
(b) the Investment Bank has undertaken to cause the hydroworks,
including the dams, to be inspected regularly in accordance
with appropriate engineering practice (para 3.04);
(c)  the Investment Bank would meet the debt service payments on the
Bank loan, as proposals for formal onlending of Bank loans
to beneficiary enterprises are still being considered in
Romania (para 3.08);
(d) the Investment Bank gave assurances recorded in agreed
minutes of negotiations that goods needed for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the loan will be
procured in accordance with the provisions of the Loan
Agreement and will not be subject to the limitations contained
in Decision No. 1612 (para 3.15);
(e) a list of goods for selection to the full amount of the
loan, suitable for i.c.b. under the Bank's guidelines, has
been agreed between the Investment Bank and the Bank
(para 3.16);
(f) the Investment Bank has agreed to cause the Project to be
carried out in conformity with appropriate ecological and
environmental practices and to report on this subject
regularly (para 3.18);
(g) the Government agreed to furnish to the Bank the results
of their review of the 1976-1980, 5-year plan (para 5.11);



- 24 -
(h)  the Investment Bank has agreed to continue to furnish
financial and economic information to enable the Bank to
evaluate the benefits of the Project to the Romania economy
and the position of the Hatzeg Enterprise in the Romanian
power sector (para 5.14);
(j)  the Investment Bank will continue the auditing arrangements
agreed for the Turceni power loan except that the audit report
on its own accounts will be submitted within 4 months
(previously 3 months) of the end of each fiscal year (para 5.15).
7.02      In the foregoing circumstances, the Project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$50 million to the Investment Bank with the guarantee of the Socialist
Republic of Romania. An appropriate term for the loan is 20 years, including
5 years of grace.
March 17, 1976



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
APPRAISAL OF
THE RIUL MARE-RETEZAT HYDROPOWER PROJECT
ROMANIA
Council of Ministers of the
Socialist Republic of Romania
Decision No. 1612
concerning the approval of the main techno-economic parameters of the investment
"Hydropower Plant - Riul Mare-Retezat" and some provisions for the implementation
of this Project.
The Council of Ministers of the Socialist Republic of Romania decides:
Article 1
The principal techno-economic parameters for the investment "Hydropower
Plant - Riul Mare-Retezat" are approved as follows:
Total amount of the investment                       4,100  million lei
of which
- amount for civil construction and plant
installation, of which                          3.,440  million lei
-  civil construction                              3,387  million lei
Total installed capacity                               34' MW
Electricity generation in average
water year                                          630  GWh
Useful storage volume                                  200 million m3
Total cost of imports, of which                     14.098  million lei valuta
-  froM socialist countries                        0.688      "     "
-  comvertible currency                            314l0 I o
Specific investment parameters:
-  lei/kW installed                               11,750
-  lei/kWh generated                                6.51
Cost of electrical energy sent out                   0.378  lei/kWh



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
Annual operating surplus before tax, of which          201.4  million lei
-   nnual surplus after tax                          43.6 million lei
Pay back period from surplus before tax                 20.3  years
Specific index of personnel                            0.50  men/Nlw
Date of final acceptance for commercial operation
- Hydropower plant Retezat:
Unit No. 1 of 167.5 MW                         Fourth quarter 1980
Unit No. 2 of 167.5 MW                         Fourth quarter 1981
- Hydropower plant Clopotiva
14 MW                        Second quarter 1982
Construction period to final acceptance
of first unit                                         76  months
Period allowed to achieve techno-economic para-
meters after cormissioning of tota1 capacity           12  months
Amount of associated investment, of which                169  million lei
-  from the budget of the Hunedora District Council  95  million lei
- from the budget of the Ministry of Electrical
Energy                                              71  million lei
Article 2
By exception of the provisions under the Decision of the Council of
Ministers No. 744/1957, the following conditions for the preparation of the
detailed cost schedules are approved:
(a)  for underground works for which cost standards are not available,
and for which corresponding standards for surface works would
otherwise have to be used, the labor costs shall be calculated
according to the scales approved for mine workers in respect of
underground work;



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3
(b)  the labor costs for which standards do not exist, shall be deter-
mined in the bill of quantities by applying the appropriate cost
factors in force at the time that the detailed bill of quantities
is prepared;
(c)  the expenditures for compensation in respect of site conditions,
night shift working, work in artificial light, and during cold
weather, shall be met from a separate expenditure head in the
bill of quantities in which a provision equal to 3% of the cost
of civil works and plant erection,shall be made for this purpose
in addition to the 5% provision permitted for contingencies;
(d)  in respect of works executed for the Ministry of Energy by the
Hydropower Construction Trust - Bucharest, for the "Hydropower
Plant Riul Mare-Retezat", an overhead expense provision for the
Hydropower Construction Trust will be provided amounting to 115%
of the labor costs in the estimate. For works performed by other
agencies the provision for overhead costs will be established by
the Inspectorate General of the State for the Guidance and Control
of Designs and Execution of Construction, on the basis of justifica-
tions which will be presented by the respective agencies; and
(e)  the costs of site organization shall be determined progressively
based on documentation from the designers and the construction
agencies and shall be authorized and checked by a commission for
this purpose comprising delegates of the Ministry of Electrical
Energy, the State Planning Committee and the Investment Bank, and
shall be approved by the Ministry of Electrical Energy. Savings
if any from the amount of 387 million lei presently provided for
site organization shall be cancelled from the funds authorized
under Article lo
Article 3
The dispatching center for the operation of the hydropower plants
of the Riul Mare-Retezat cascade shall be placed in the town of Hateg. Financing
of the construction and equipment of this shall be from the amount provided
under Article 1.
President of the Council
of Ministers
Manea Mgnescu
March 1976



APPRAISAL OF
THE RIUL MARE-RETEZAT HYDROPOWER PROJECT
ROMANIA
Energy Generation         i Sales History & Forecast
1970        1971         1972        1973         1974 2      1975         1976         1977        1978       1979        1980        1981        1982        1983       1984        1985
Generated from all sourcee
in Rosania (GWh):
Coal                          8,107        9,317        9,776       10,591      lo,4oo
Lignite                       i,684        2,115        2,568        2,884       3,700
oil                           i,o66        1,049        1,372       2,119 )    22 752        46,200       47,241       50,400     53,190      56,270      59,550     61,16o      64,510      67,700      70,976      74,660
Gas                          220,520      21,744       21,333       22,637           52
Other                           938          734        1,D47          942       1,050
Sydro                         2,773        4,495        7,343        7,547       8,399        8,300        9,100       9,600      10,700      11,800      13,000      13,500     14,500      15,900      17,504      19,000
Total Generated (GWh)           35,088       39,454       43,439       46,720      46,301       54,500       56,34i       60,000     63,890      68,070      72,550      74,660     79,010      83,600      88,48o      93,660
Els imports                               28           64         4ii          251        1,433          500          500         500         500         500         500        500         500         500         500         500
Total Generated & P-rchased    35,116        39,518       43,850       46,971      47,734       55,0Z0       56,841       60,500     64,39o      68,570      73,050      75,160     79,510      84,1oo      88,980      94,160
Less units used on works (9)           (19.4)       (18.0)      (18.3)       (17.8)       (15.8)       (20.3)       (18.0)      (18.0)      (18.0)      (18.0)      (18.0)     (18.5)      (18.5)      (18.4)      (18.4)      (18.4)
& System losses (aiW)               6,Si5        7 132        8 oi8        8,350       7,560       11,190       10,231       10,890     11,590      12,340    1]3,150       13,890     14,670      15,500      16,380      17,310
Sent ot to system                     28,301       32,386      35,832       i8,621       40,174       43,810       46,61o      49,610      52,800      56,230     59,900      61,270      64,84o      68,600      72,600     76,850
Exports                                2,413        3,219       3,736        3,799        3,800        3,800        3,800       3,800       3,800       3 800      3,800       1,800       1,800       1,8cc       1,8oo      l,8oo
Units so1d in  orianda (GWh)         25,888       29,167       32,o96       34,822       36,374      4o,olo       42,810       45,So      49,000     52,430      56,100      59,470      63,o4o      66,800     70,800      75,050
% IGncrease over previous year                       12.7         10.0         8.5          4.5         10.0          7.0          7.0        7.0         7.0         7.0        6.o         6.o         6.o         6.o         6.o
Syatem load factor (- )                 7o.6         70.6        70.4         70.8         70.8         70.8         70.7        70.4        70.2        70.0       69.9        69.6        69.5        69.4        69.3       69.2
System  maximm demand (1KW)            5,641        6,342       7,003        7,535        7,470        8,790        9,100       9,730      10,390      11,090      i1,850     12,24o      12,970      13,750      14,580      15,460
/I Interpolated figures.
March 1976



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 10
APPRAISAL OF
THE RIUL MARE-RETEZAT HYDROPOWER PROJECT
ROMANIA
MINISTRY OF ELECTRICITY ENERGY
Tariffs
The following tariffs were introduced effective January 1, 1974. They
reflect broadly the cost of supply at differing voltage levels for each consumer
category. At the same time they are set to discourage use for non-productive
purposes such as public and general lighting in contrast to industrial and other
large consumers.
ACTIVE POWER
I. CONSUMERS SUPPLIED WITH LOW VOLTAGE (Ool-l kV)
A. Single part Tariffs for:
1. Public lighting:
-  including maintenance of installations                    0.80 lei/kWh
-  excluding maintenance of installations                    0.54 lei/kWh
2. General lighting:
&)  not differentiated by period of consumption              0.75 lei/kWh
b) differentiated by period of consumption
- consumption during peak evening hours
(between 1800 and 2100 hours)                        155 lei/kWh
- consumption during remaining hours
(from 2100 to 1800 hours)                             0.60 leiAkWh
OR
- daytime consumption (between 0600 and
2200 hours)                                           0c85 lei/kWh
- nighttime consumption (between 2200 and
0600 hours)                                           0.50 lei/kWh
3.  Businesses:
a)  not differentiated by period of consumption               0.50 lei/kWh
b) differentiated by period of consumption:
- consumption during peak evening hours
(between 1800 and 2100 hours)                         1.00 lei/kWh
- consumption during remaining hours
(from 2100 to 1800 hours)                             0.41 lei/kWh
OR



AINNE 3
Page 2 of 10
- daytime consumption (between 0600 and
2200 hours)                                       0.57 lei/klh
- nighttime consumption (between 2200 and
o600 hours)                                       0.33 lei/kWh
4. Power users with power demand of less than 50 kW or with connected
plant of less than 50 kVA rating.
a)  not differentiated by period of consumption          0.45 lei/kWh
b) differentiated by period of consumption:
-  consumption during peak evening hours
(between 1800 and 2100 hours)                     0.90 lei/kWh
- consumption during remaining hours (from
2100 to 1800 hours)                               0.37 lei/kWh
-  daytime consumption (between 0600 and
2200 hours)                                       0.52 lei/kWh
- nighttime consumption (between 2200 and
0600 hours)                                       0.30 lei/kWh
5. User_ in agriculture, including irrigation:
a) not differentiated by period of consumption
(excluding irrigation)                               0.40 lei/kWh
b)  differentiated by period of consumption::
- consumption during peak evening hours (between
1800 and 2100 hours)                              0.82 lei/kWh
- consumption during remaining hours (from
2100 to 1800 hours)                               0.33 lei/kWh
OR
- daytime consumption (between 0600 and 2200
hours)                                            0.46 lei/kWh
- nighttime consumption (between 2200 and
0600 hours)                                       0.26 lei/kWh
6. Domestic users
- each unit in a first block of 6 kWh per room in
surmmer and 12 kWh per room in winter             0.50 lei/kWh
-  the balance                                       0.30 lei/kWh
-  off-peak water heaters between 2200 and
o600 hours                                        0.20 lei/kWh



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 10
B. Two part tariffs for:
7.  Industrial consumers with power demand of more than 50 MX  or
with connected plant of more than 50 kVA rating.
Power rate for:
- metered maximum demand                                1440 lei/kW p.a.
OR
-  connected plant rating.                              110h lei/kVA p.a
Energy rate:
a)  not differentiated by period of' consumption        0.17 lei/kWh
b) differentiated by period of consumption:
- consumption during peak evening hours
(established by Ministry of Electrical Energy) 0.30 lei/kWh
-  consumption during remaining hours               0.15 lei/kWh
OR
-  daytime consumption (between 0600 and 2200
hours)                                           0.19 lei/kWh
- nighttime consumption (between 2200 and
0600 hours)                                      0.13 lei/kWh
NOTE: The two part rates given in Section I.7 may also be applied to the
consumers indicated in Sections 1.2 to 15, under the conditions to
be established by regulation for the supply and use of electric power,
in all cases in which this can ensure minimum consumption of electric
power with a minimum of power absorbed during peak hours.
II. CONSUMERS SUPPLIED WITH MEDIUM VOLTAGE (1-110 kV)
1. Urban and interurban electric traction:
A. Single part tariff
a)  not differentiated by period of consumption        0.30 lei/kWh
b) differentiated by period of consumption:
- consumption during peak evening hours
(between 1800 and 2100 hours)                  0.O0 lei/kXh
- consumption during remaining hours (from
2100 to 1800 hours)                            0.28 lei/kWh



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 10
2. Users in agriculture. excluding irrigation
A. Single part tariff
a)  not differentiated by period of consumption          0.34 lei/kWh
b) differentiated by period of consumption:
- consumption during peak evening hours
(between 1800 and 2100 hours)                     0.57 lei/kWh
- consumption daring remaining hours
(from 2100 to 1800 hours)                        0.31 lei/kWh
B. Two part tariff
Power rate for:
- metered maximum demand                                 1260 lei/kW p.a.
OR
-  connected plant rating                                1008 lei/kVA p.a.
Energy rate:
a)  not differentiated by period of consumption          0.14 lei/kWh
b) differentiated by period of consumption:
- consumption during peak evening hours
(established by order of Ministry of
Electrical Energy)                                0.27 lei/kWh
-  consumption daring remaining hours                0.12 lei/kWh
3. Other consumers
A. Single part tariff
a) not differentiated by period of consumption
(excluding irrigation)                               0.36 lei/kWh
b) differentiated by period of consumption:
- consumption daring peak evening hours (es-
tablished by order of Ministry of Electrical
Energy)                                           o.60 lei/kWh
- consumption during remaining hours                 0.33 lei/kWh
OR



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 10
- consumption during peak evening hours (es-
tablished by order of Ministry of Electrical
Energy)                                         0.60 lei/kWh
- daytime consumption                              0.h2 lei/kWh
- nighttime consumption                            0.20 lei/kWh
B. Two part tariff
Power rates:
- Based on metered maximum demand:                         /
a)  not differentiated by period of consumption        1152 lei/kW p.a.
b) differentiated by period of consumptions
- for maximum power absorbed during evening
peak hours                                      1176 lei/kW p.a.
- for maximum power absorbed outside evening
peak hours in excess of power absorbed
during evening peak hours                        588 lei/kW p.a.
OR
-  on basis of connected plant rating.              972 lei/kVA p.a.
Energy rates:
a) not differentiated by period of consumption
(excluding irrigation)                             0.17 lei/kWh
b) differentiated by period of consumption:
- consumption during peak evening hours (es-
tablibhed by order of Ministry of Electrical
Energy)                                         0.30 lei/kWh
-  consumption during remaining hours              0.15 lei/kWh
OR
-  consumption during peak evening hours (es-
tablished by order of Ministry of Electrical
Ebergy)                                         0.30 lei/kWh
-  daytime consumption                             0.18 lei/kWh
- nighttime consuption                             0,11 lei/kWh



A1.;zX 3
Page 6of 10
NOTEs  1. A two part tariff is generally applied to major consumers.
2.  The rates for medium voltage and for supply at a voltage of
0.5-1 kV are applied to petroleum drilling and extraction.
3.  The single part tariff (II 3 A) will be applied to the consumers
indicated in Section II 3 having several meter points and to
those having electric power plants of their own at which the
maximum absorbed power cannot be totalled simultaneously.
III CONSUMERS SUPPLIED WITH HIGH VOLTAGE (110 kV and higher)
1. Railroad electric traction
A. Single part tariff
a)  not differentiated by period of consumption         0.26 lei/kdh
b) differentiated by period of consumption:
- daytime consumption (between 0600 and
2200 hours)                                     0.30 lei/kWh
- nighttime consumption (between 2200 and
0600 hours)                                     0.19 lei/kWh
2. Other consumers
A. Single part tariff
a) not differentiated by period of consumption
(excluding irrigation)                             0.26 lei/kWh
b) differentiated by period of consumption:
- consumption during peak evening hours (es-
tablished by order of Ministry of Electrical
Energy)                                          0.42 lei/kWh
-  consumption during remaining hours              0.25 lei/kWh
OR
- consumption during peak evening hours (es-
tablished by Ministry of Electrical Energy)    0.42 lei/kWh
-  daytime consumption                             0.31 lei/k4i
- nighttime consumption                            0.15 lei/kWh
B. Two part tariffs
Rates for metered maximum demand.



ANm 3
Page 7 of 10
a) not differentiated by peridd of consumption         696 lei/kW p.a.
b) differentiated by period of consumption
-  for maximum power absorbed during evening
peak hours                                       708 lei/kW p.a.
- for maximiu power absorbed outside evening
peak hours in exceas of power absorbed during
evening peak bours                              348 lei/kW p.a.
OR
-  rate for connected plant rating                 600 lei/kVA p.a.
Rates for energy.
a) not differentiated by period of consumption
(excluding irrigation)                            0.17 lei/kWh
b) differentiated by period of consumptiont
- consumption during peak evening hours (es-
tablished by order of Ministry of Electrical
Energy)                                        0.30 lei/kWh
- consumption during remaining hours              0.15 lei/kWh
OR
- consumption during peak evening hours (esta-
blished by order of Ministry of Electrioal
Energy)                                        0.30 lei/kWh
-  daytime consumption                            0.18 lei/kWh
- nighttime consumption                           0.11 lei/kWh
NOTE:  1.  A two part tariff is generally applied to major consumers.
2. The single part tariff (III 2 A b) will be applied to the consumers
indicated in Section III 2 having several meter points and to those
having electric power plants of their own at which the maximum
absofibed power cannot be totalled simultaneously.
IV. RATES FOR PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY OF EXPORTED ELECTRIC POWER
Single rate
- consumption during peak evening hours                   0.45 lei/kWh
-  daytime consumption                                    0.27 lei/kWh
- nighttime consumption                                   0.17 lei/kWh



ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 10
WATTLESS POWER
Single rates for:
1.  Consumers supplied with low voltage                   0.046 lei/kVARh
2.  Consumers supplied *ith medium voltage               0.036 lei/kVARh
3.  Consumers supplied with high voltage                  0.026 lei/kVARh
NOTEs Wattless power is invoiced only if the average monthly power factor is
lower than 0.92.
RATES FOR PRODUCTICW AND SUPPLY OF ELWTRIC POWER SUPPLIED IN ThE NATIONAL
POWER GRID BY CONSUMERS HAVING ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS OF THEIR OIWN
ACTIVE POWER
Single rate:
a) differentiated by period of consumption:
Power supplied during peak evening hours (es-
tablished by order of Ministry of Zlectrical 1era gy)O.35 lei/kWh
Power supplied during remaining hours                0.23 lei/kWh
b) not differentiated by period of consumption.           0.25 lei/kWh
NOTEs  If the average annual planned cost price is higher than 0.25 lei/kWh,
the average rate for delivery will equal the planned cost price in the
respective year plus a profit of 3%, and the rates of 0.35 and 0.23 lei/
kWh will be increased in proportion to the ratio of the average rate
for supply and 0.25 lei.
WATTLESS POWER
Single rate:
1.  Wattles6 electric power supplied to the requirement of
the dispatcher without special starting of a generating
aet or a synchronous compensator                         0.02 lei/kVARh
2. Wattless electric power supplied to the requirement
of the dispatcher when special starting of a generating
set or a synchronous compensator is necessary.           0.06 lei/kVARh



ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 10
INCREASES AND REDUCTIONS IN RATES
1.        Reductions in rates for metered maximum demand or connected plant
rating are applied as follows to seasonal consumers not participating in the
annual power grid peak:
Basic period of operation                Reduction, in %
May 1 to September 30                            30
April 1 to September 30                          25
March 1 to October 31                            15
2,        Certain industrial consumers who are able to reduce their demand
during periods of system peak may earn reductions in their tariffs according
to their performance in this respect. (Scales not supplied)
3.        If the established normal maximum demand is exceeded during the
peak evening hours, the following power rate increases will be applied to
major industrial consumers:
Increase in % for power exceeded
For single ex-    For repeated ex-
cess per month    cesses in same
month
AA. Consumers contracting for power
under 1000 kW:
-- power exceeded up to 10%                       50                 100
-- power exceeded 10-20%                         100                 150
-- power exceeded more than 20%                  150                 200
B.  Consumers contracting for power over
1000 kW:
-- power exceeded up to 5%                        50                 100
-- power exceeded 5-10%                          100                 200
-- power exceeded 10-20%                         150                 250
-- power exceeded more than 20%                  200                 300
Power excesses of less than 20 kW are exempt from application of
the rate increases.
4.        For electrsic power supplied to a major industrial consumer for a
period longer than 30 consecutive minutes, at a voltage or a frequency outside
the contract limits, the supplier will grant a rate reduction of 12.5% to
25%, under the conditions specified in the regulations governing the supply
and utilization of electric power.



ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 10
OTHER PROVISIONS
1.        Consumers will be placed in the tariff system (low-medium-high
voltage; single part-two part; metered maximum demand-connected plant
rating; not differentiated-differentiated by period of consumption; etc.)
in accordance with the regulations governing the supply and utilization
of electric power, effort being made to achieve minimum consumption of
electric energy, with a minimum peak demand.
2.        If consumers request electric power supply installations
supplementary to those specified by laws and regulations in force,
such consumers will pay the supplier annually 15% of the respective
fixed assets for the operation of these installations.
3.        The fixed rates specified in this Appendix also constitute
the rate limits.
March 1976



ANNEX 4
ROMANIA
Electric Power System Capability
26                                              and Maximum Demand
24
22
20-
TOTAL PLANTS INSTALLED IN ROMANIA           /                                 ;
(ROMANIAN PLAN)                                                     *
18                                                                                                                P J
40P
FIRM PLANT CAPACITY
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
14 -                                                  /0
12 - 
40,
10~~~~~~~~~ -                                                           SY5\ STE  MAUXIMUM DEMAND DEC.
1 ; #~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                                  ( MI SSI1ON E STIM ATIE 
6 _     }#
HISTORICAL   FORECAST
4'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
1970    71     72     73      74     75     76      77     78      79     80     81     82      83     84      85
END OF YEAR
World Bank 15152(R)
March 1976



APPRAISAL OF
THE RIUL MARE-RETEZAT HYSROPC1WER PROJECT
RCHANIA
Electric Power Sector
Planting History & Forecast
Rated     Cumulative     Cumulative    Cumulative    Interconnected   Security      Firm    Stximum      System        Annual
Type           Date       Capacity   Thermal Total   Hydro Total System Total         Plant         Margin    Capacity  Demand    Load Factor  Generation
Year     Installed Plant        H/T       Comaissioned      5w            Mif            514           144                          157 4        P4                  hrs/a          GWh
1972      Totals to date                                                7,257           2,100        9,357          9,100           2,077       7,280    7,003       6,200        43,439
1973      Rovinari              T/L                          200
Braila                T/O                         210
Oradea Dist Htg       T/L           1973           50
Brazi                 T/O           1973          210
Industrial            T/O           1973           22
Retirements (MEE)     T/O           1973          -50
(Industl) T             1973          -12        7,887
Lotru                 H             1973          170
Noaptes               H             1973            15
Zigoneni              H             1973           15                         2,300       10,187          9,729           2,240       7,947    7,245      6,200         46,720
1974      Braila                T/O                          420
Various               T                             7
Retirements           T                           -21         8,293
Tarnita               H                            45
Ra. Viliea            H                            23
Saiculesti            H                            15                         2,383       10,676         10,218           2,350       8,326    7,470      6,200         46,301
1975      Rovinari              T/L                          660
Bucuresti-Vest        T/G                         250
-Sud              T/G                         250
Pitesti (50 + 12)     T/G+O                        62
Govora                T/G+O                         50
Galati                T/G                         165
Sorzesti              T/G+O                        50
Various               T                           112
Retirements           T                          -126        92766
Lotru                 H                           170
Olt                   H                            58
Arges                 H                             11                        2,622                      12,006           3,265       9,123    8,790       6,200        54,500
1976      Rovinari              T/L                          66o
Oradea                T/L                          50
Craiovs               T/L                          55
Govora                T/G+O                         50
Piteati               T/G+O                        50
Brazi                 T/O                          50
Borzesti              T/G+O                        50
Iasi                  T/GC+                        50
Retirements           T                          -110        10,671
Somes-Mtriselu        H                           220                                                                                                                                    -
Arges                 H                             27                                                                                                                                   0
Olt-Daiesti-Govdra    H                            37
Olt-Riureni           H                            48
Various               H                              7                        2,961       13,632         13,283           3,941       9,691    9,100      6,190         56,341



APPRAISAL OF
THE RIUL MARE-RETEZAT HYDROPOWER PROJECT
ROMANIA
Electric Power Sector
Planting History & Forecast
Rated    Cumulative     Cumulative      Cumulative    Interconnected   Security     Firm     Maximum     System        Annual
Type        Date        Capacity   Thermal Total  Hydro Total  System Total         Plant         Margin    Capacity   Demand    Load Factor   Generation
Year      Installed Plant           H/T      Commissioned       w            M             ma             MW             MW             MW         MNW        m         hrs/a          GWh
1977      Deva                      T/G                        210
Turceni                   T/L                        330
Braila                    T/O                        330
Palas                     T/O                        120
Retirements               T                           -47       1,614
Olt                      H                            37
Lotru                    H                            18
Various                   H                           32                        3,o48         14,662         14,342          4,190      10,472     9,730      6,167        60,0oo
1978      Turceni                   T/L                        660
Doicesti                  T/L                        200
Retirements               T                          -33        12,441
Olt                      H                            88
Sebes                     H                          150
Lotru                     H                          115
Cerna Motru Tismana       H                            50                        3,451         15,892         15,597         4,528      11,364    10,390      6,150        63,890
1979     Turceni                    T/L                         330
Anina (shales)            T/S                         330
Borzesti                  T/G+O                        50
Brazi                     T/O                         50
Navodari                  T                            50
Craiova                   T/L                          50
Galati                    T/G                         150
Retirements               T                           -74        13,377
Olt                       H                           197
Sebes                     H                           150
Cerna Motru Tismana       H                           106
Dragan Iad                H                            73
Siret                     H                            28
Various                   H                            20                        4,025         17,402         17,181         4,838      12,564    11,090       6,137        68,o70
1980      Turceni                   T/L                         330
Borzesti                  T/G-4O                       50
Brazi                     T/O                          50
Navodari                  T                            50
Craiova                   T/L                          50
Tirnaveni                 T                            50
Galati                    T/G                         100
Retirements               T                           -21        14,036
Olt                       H                           198                                                                                                                                       o
Riul Mare                 H                           167
Dahgan                    H                            77
Sebes                     H                            27
Siret                     H                            86
Various                   H                            56                        4,636                        18,472         4,920      13,752    11,850       6,120        72,550



APPRAISAL OF
THE RI'J MARE-RETEZAT HYDROP(OER PROJECT
ROMANIA
Electric Power Sector
Planting History & Forecast
Rated     Cumulative     Cumulative     Cumulative    Interconnected   Security       Firm     Mllximum       System       Annual
Type        Date       Capacity   Thermal Total  Hydro Total   System Total          Plant        Margin     Capacity   Demand      Load Factor   Generation
Year      Installed Plant            H/T    Comissioned         MW          MW              MW             Mw               MW            MW          MW        MW          hrs/a          GWh
1981     Nuclear                     n                         220
Various                    T                         890
Retirements                T                          -70        15,076
Riul Mare-Retezat          H                         168
Various                    H                          79                         4,883         19,959         19,820          5,450       14,509    12,240         6,100       74,660
1982     Nuclear                     N                         220
Various                    T                         990
Retirements                T                        -100         16,186
Clopotiva                  H                          24
Various                    H                         254                         5,161         21,347         21,347          5,870       15,477    12,970         6,090       79,010
1983     Nuclear                     N                       1,090
Various                    T                         780
Retirements                T                        -120         17,936
Various                    H                         577                         5,738         23,674         23,674         7,000 L      16,674    13,750        6,o80        83,600
1984      Various                    T                         450
Retirements                T                        -116         18,270
Various                    H                         533                         6,271         24,541         24,541         7,050        17,491    14,580        6,o70        88,480
1985     Nuclear                     N                         650
Retirements                T                        -120
Various                    T                         120
Various                    H                         865                         7,136                        26,056         7,165        18,891    15,460         6,060       93,660
Note:
T/G       Thermal/Gas
T/O       Thermal/Oil                                                                                                                                                                                  -
T/G+O     Thermal/Gas and Oil
T/L       Thermal/Lignite
T/S       Thermal/Shale
N         Nuclear
T         Thermal/Various
H         Hydro
Li Security margin increased to allow for new nuclear technique.
March 1976



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 5
APPRAISAL OF
THE RIUL MARE-RETEZAT HYDROPOWER PROJECT
ROMANL
Civil Engineering Design Aspects of the Pro.ject
Introduction
1.        The Project is characterized by the large number of individual
structures -- some of impressive size. The earth and rockfill storage dam
"Barajul Tomeasa" is 173 m high (there are not mary of this type higher) and
creates the reservoir "Gura Apelor" which serves principally as the retainer
of the live storage. A high pressure tunnel 18.4 km long conveys the reser-
voir releases to the "Retezat" underground power plant of 325 MW and a gross
head of 583 m. The tailrace of Retezat is also the headrace of the "Clopotiva"
above-ground powerhouse of 14 MW and a head of 25 m. There are 25 secondary
intakes which collect water from adjacent streams and drop it into the pressure
tunnel or convey it through a tunnel 34 km long to Gura Apelor reservoir.
Hydrology
2.        The region is wet with annual rainfall  reaching 1,500 mm per year.
The dischge record at the dam site is 39 years long and the average flow
is 8.5 m-Vs. This and other records form a basis for the satisfactory dsaign
of the Project. The secondary catchments contribute an average of 6.0 mJ/s.
TopograpIw
3.        The region is mountainous and heavily timbered. Rock falls lying
at the steepest stable angle of repose are common. There are maps of the
reservoir area with a scale of 1:5000 with 5 m contour intervals. There are
maps of areas containing the main structure with scales varying from 1:2000
down to 1:200 with 1 m contour intervals.  There are general maps of the
region with scales of 1:5000, 1:10,000 and 1:25,000 with contour intervals
res- ctively of 5 m, 10 m, and 20 m. The maps are adequate for the present
stage of planning.
Geology
4.        The geology at the dam site has been explored by 19 drill holes,
18 adits, and 26 test pits. Water and grout pressure tests have been made
and in-situ testing has been done. The explorations have been thorough
and modern. Unfortunately, we could not enter the adits which had been mined
j/ By Mr. R.L. Bloor, Bank Consultant.



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 5
and served their purpose some years ago and without support were dangerous.
The drill cores were stacked and not readily available considering time limita-
tions. A cursory inspection revealed the reasons for some weaknesses in the
left abutment described below.
5r        The steeper right abutment is good quality quartz schist -/dipping 50
to 600 downward and into the abutment -- a situation favorable for constructing
a chute spillway on this side. The left abutment is granite in the upper third,
breccia (a weaker rock) 20 to 60 m thick below that and the same rock as the
right abutment at the bottom.  There are several indications of weakness com-
pared to the right abutment; high grout and water losses (up to 7.6 l/m/min/atm),
low  moduli of elasticity (10,000 to 15,000 kg/cm ), low in-situ compressive
strengths (60 kg/cm ), and high core losses (up to 40%)e The cores offer an
explanation:  the rock in the middle third of the slope is of wafer-thin bedding
or schistosity standing on edge due to mountain forming reorientations and
weathered); it is satisfactory for a rockfill dam foundation (consolidation
grouting is contemplated) but it would not be satisfactory for concrete struc-
tu-es.  An alternate site 2 km downstream was studied for an arch dam.  It was
e. :idoned because of estimated higher costs and consumption of energy (such
as 'he energy used in manufacturing cement, etc.). The sites for secondary
caLchment structures have been studied by reference to general geology (they
wiall be in granite or crystaline schists) and test pits. Since the structures
are small and flexible as to location this is satisfactory for the time being.
6.        The reservoir has been explored by general geological methods (the
usual way) and by six drill holes to verify the fact that a small area of
metomorphosed (changed by heat and pressure) limestone is not of the type which
contains cavities. Leakage is not to be expected and while the steep slopes
may cause earth slides in the reservoir they will be of small volume due to
the thin alluvial cover.
7.        The 18.4 km long headrace tunnel lies in good quality granite for
most of its length and a small amount of schist. Although the left bank
location has been chosen recently and therefore not yet studied in detail there
appears to be no reason for any unusual tunnel problems.
8.        The same may be said for the Retezat powerhouse area on the basis
of reliable general geology.  The rocks will be gneissic (laminated), granular,
or schistose granites which are generally compact and hard. Explorations are
just beginning and include exploratory adits along the lines of the access
tunnel and a cable gallery. Through the latter we were able to inspect the
rock to near the powerhouse area and it was of excellent quality.  It is likely,
however, that the roof and walls of the powerhouse cavern will need support
by anchors, wire mesh, and shotcrete -- a satisfactory solution.  The tailrace
1/ A schist is a rock formed by a geological mountain making movement similar to
the movement of a pack of playing cards which has its cross section changed
from a rectangle to a parallelogram. The schistosity may represent a weak-
ness in shear parallel to its direction.



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 5
tunnel and channel get into fYssurred granite and earth cuts.  These also
form the headrace for the Clopotiva powerhouse which will be founded on
fissurred granite. These conditions led to the use of this low head power-
house for which the conditions are acceptable.
Dam Design
9.        The height of the dam was established by economic studies uBing
Government criteria to determine the optimum live storage -- 200 aillion m3
which required a dam 173 m high.  This high dam has been designed in accor-
dance with well-accepted criteria having factors of safety of 1 to 1.3 or
l.4 (including earthquake shock factors) for slope stability, a clay core
between multi-layered filters upstream and downstream. Alluvium will be re-
moved fron the left abutment (rock outcrops on the right) and consolidation
grouting will be used under the core on part of the left abutment. The core
-will be carried to rock in the stream bed; otherwise stream bed material up
to 20 m thick (called ballast) -- a sand, gravel, boulder mixture with a
favorable angle of friction of 350 will be left in place. The rockfill 1as
an angle of friction of 35 to 400. The embankment contains 10 million m of
material; some rock has sensibly been replaced by ballast in areas of low
stress since it costs less. There will be a grout curtain 70 m deep in three
lines of holes under the full length of the dam.
10.       Spillway design is based partly on thq 39 year flow record at the
site which has a maximum recorded flow of 660 mi/s. Using statistical methods
the 10,000 years Alood would be 1,580 ms/s. By other stud4eB a maximum possible
inflow of 1,930 m-/s was computed which reduced to 1,500 mn/a by automatic
storage in the freeboard range of the dam. A conservative spillway capacity
of 1,500 ;3/s was adopted.  It will be in the good rock of the right abutment
in the form of a concrete lined chute with a section of free-flowing tunnel
at the downstream end. Velocities may reach 20 m/sec at a vertical curve
near the downstream end and a coating of epoxy is being considered. The design
is conservative.
Pressure Tumnel
11.       There is no powerhouse at the dam; t e water is conveyed 18.4 km in
a 4.9 m diameter tunnel designed to carry 70   Is under pressures varying
from 110 to 170 m of water (146 to 225 lbs/in ) to a penstock which drops into
an underground powerhouse containing two 170-MW Francis turbines operating
under a design head of 521 m. An alternative study with two powerhouses (one
at the dam) was made but was found to cost substantially more. The proposed
tunnel is on the left side of the river but a location on the right side was
studied and found to have fewer advantages as regards secondary catchment and
higher costs. The tunnel is concrete lined, ring beams are used throughout
and steel linings are used near the ends and at three adits where rock cover



ANNEX 6
Page a of 5
is minimal. Fhrthermore, strength of the good quality granite rock is mobilized
to take 60% of the pressure by grouting and radial prestressed anchor rods.
The design is unusual but it has been carefully worked out and should be adequate.
Powerhouses
12.       The high head underground powerhouse, Retezat, is of routine design
with one 3.7 m diameter underground penstock lined with 60 to 80 cm of concrete
and 22 to 60 mm of steel, a partially underground surge shaft, one powerhouse
cavern containing two butterfly valves on branches of the penstock, another
containing the Francis type turbo-generator machinery 17 m wide and 60 m long
and a third containing transformers. Access will be by a 300 m long tunnel
on a 3.5% grade. For reasons of geology and topography (see para. 8), it was
found expedient to place the tailrace of the underground powerhouse 25 m above
stream bed and develop that head in an above-ground powerhouse, Clopotiva,
containing two 7-MW Kaplan units. A study was made to eliminate the low-head
plant but it was found to be more expensive.
Secondary Catchments
13.       The secondary catchments are unusual elements of the Project although
thes have been used on at least two other river systems in Romania. They add
6 m /s average flow to the 8.5 m3/s of the main river. On the left side of the
river which contains the main pressure headrace tunnel the water of four tribu-
taries is caught and dropped through tunnels and shafts totalling about 3 km
long into the pressure tunnel. On the right side of the river the flow of 21
tributaries is caught and dropped through tunnels and shafts totalling 4 Ian
long into a main colleFtor tunnel 33.9 km long with a free-flow cross section
between 7.5 and 10.5 m which discharges into the main reservoir. The water-
catching structures are essentially elongated reinforced concrete boxes buried
across the streams. The top side of one end of the box is at stream bed and
serves as a spillway and also contains a horizontal grating sized to accept
from h to 8 times the average flow. The remainder of the box buried in one
bank serves as a silt and sand catcher and passes the water to the collecting
shafts and tunnels. There are automatic washing arrangements controlled by
a sector gate and enough earth cover to avoid freezing. Ten of these structures
on other rivers are in operation and 35 more are being completed. They are
expected to be visited once a month to provide adequate maintenance. Studies
were also made for providing alternative small power plants on the tributaries
but the cost was several times greater.
Materials for Construction
14.       Some of the mnterials for construction are situated rather far frcm
the dam. One million m of clay for the dam core must come from a pit 30 km
away and one million m3 of fine sand for concrete aggregates and filters will
probably come from 50 km away; fine sand will be within 30 km of the powerhouqes.
Two million m3 of coarse sand and ballast are within 2-3 km and six million m-
of rockfill are only 5-7 kn away. The question was raised as to why fine sand
could not be made near the site by crushing rock or ballast but the designers



ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 5
believed the nearby materials available might be too bard for crushing to
compete with the long haul. The conditions are acceptable and they may im-
prove as explorations continue. Under no circumstances do they suggest
another type of dam.
Construction and Schedules
15e       Construction will be carried out by enterprises which have already
built 40 hydroelectric plants and have 20 others under construction. These
plants include all types of large dams and nearly 300 km of tunnels. Many
access problems in mountainous areas have been solved in the past. Adequate
experience for the construction of the Project thus appears assured.
16.       Work on access roads and underground works was started in 1974.
The pace of construction has not been fast up to the present but the scheduled
operation of the first generating unit in 1981 and final Project completion
by 1984 are realistic if more construction plant is brought to the Project
as expected.
Cost Estimates
17.       The difficulties of constructing the Project have been recognized
by the cost estimators and enumerated as follows:  the works are widespread
and far from population centers, the topography is rough, the climate is bad
for construction, i.e. wet, access is difficult and expensive, power supply
is distant as are materials for the clay core of the embankment and concrete
aggregates. Having taken these conditions into acceunt, the estimators have
computed in detail the amounts of material, equipment and personnel needed,
and the cost of operating and maintaining the equipment and providing living
quarters. As is usual in this part of the world contingencies are regarded
with suspicion and have been limited to 5%; the estimators have assured me,
however, that quantities have been liberally estimated.
Conclusions
18.       The engineering design for the Project is conservative and thorough
(note the studies of alternatives), available construction forces have the
experience to build it, the estimated time required for construction and the
Coot estimate are acceptable.
March 1976



A1nIEX 7
APPRAIBAL OF
TM RIUL MK-RtSZA! HYDROEWZR }RJBCT
RQWI
Capital Eatite as of December 1975
Lei milliona                 US$ millis equivalent              of
Local     Forei      Total       Lo        Pore       Total     Project Cost
A. Civil Conatruction and
Plant Erection                        2,855        801      3,656       142.7      4o.1      182.8        73.1
B. Electrical and lIchaical
Equipment                               236         29        265        11.8       1.5       13.3         5.3
C. Project N_nagmnt and Supervisim             33          -         33         1.6         -        1.6         o.6
D. Capital Equipmnt of Operating
Enterprise                                9          _9                   0.5                  0.5         0.2
E. Wayleave. and Copensation                   42          -         42         2.1         -        2.1         o.8
F. Asaociated Road Works, llO-kV and
220-kV Power TLin                       140          5        145         7.0       0.2        7.2         2.9
G. Engineering Costs                           94          -         94         4.7         -        4.7         1.9
Sub-total                3.409        835      4.244       170.4      41.8      212.2        84.8
Contingency Allowances - Physical A       323         84        407        16.2       4.2       20.4         8.2
-Price /2          194        157        351        9.7        7-8       17.5         7.0
Sub-total                  517        241        758        25.9      12.0       37.9        15.2
Total Project Coot           6      1.076      5.500       196.3      53.8      250.1       100.0
Interest During Construction                                                         11.2
Total Foreign Costs       65.0
Note: This table is on the basis that all procurement under i. c.b. ia won by Romanian suppliers.
1  10% on A, B and F.
2% p.a. on A and F and 7J% p.a. on foreign component of A and total of B.
March 1976



ANNEX 8
APPRAISAL OF
THE RIUL MARE-RETEZAT HYDROPOWER PROJECT
ROMANIA
Statement Concerning "Convention" Regulating Riparian Interests
BANCA DE INVESTITII
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Gentlemen:
Re: Riul Mare-Retezat Hydropower Project
The Influence on the International Waters
Regarding your request for a statement concerning the effect of the Riul
Mare-Retezat hydropower project on the Mures River at the Romanian border, we
inform you as follows:
1. Article 2 of the "Convention between the Socialist Republic of
Romania and the People's Republic of Hungary concerning the settlement of
the hydrotechnical matters of the river courses forming the border or inter-
secting the border" states:
"Neither Party shall execute on his own territory without prior
agreement of the other parties, works or take measures which
have the effect of significantly increasing or decreasing the
flow of the rivers as established in conformity with the present
Convention for the permanent river courses or increasing the volumes
and levels at the border of the non-permanent waters (canals) so that
damage could be caused on the territory of the other Party."
2. The above-mentioned article is relevant to the Riul Mare-Retezat hydro-
power project and in the Convention there are no other articles which modify
the content of that article.
3. The construction and operation of the Riul Mare-Retezat hydropower instal-
lations will not alter the regime of the Mures River at the border of Romania so
as to contravene the provisions of the above-mentioned Convention.
4. In these circumstances the riparian countries have no cause for objection
to the execution and operation of the project.
Very truly yours,
Washington
Feb. 10, 1976                                   M. Diamandopol
President
March 1976                                      Investment Bank



ANNEX 9
APP9.AIHAL CF
7tHE RIUL NARE-HETEZAT HYDROP3WER PfIOEIT
ROKMANI
Pro-rg- of Ereeution
'Jnit of
Mi.n lmin                 Activity          QeS0Oe      Qusntity       1971         1975        1976        1977       1978         1979        1980        1981         1982        1983
DAM                   A.-0s0 R6sds             k67 56
T-nnels                  m          7,961
Excaction                A      1,666,000
B.ckfill                  3     9,1777,200                                                                                    Inpoundin6
Concrete                 523        10,120
W.tertight MerAbrsDe     =          65,000
RNTAKE AII PRE0SSRE   Acees Ro                 krs            '8.5
Tl.NNFL TO 5.7. 27A-                             3
7'9N                  Tunnel                   =         552,000
Co-cteS,                 ci        170,800
r-t                      t         55,000
enstock E--eU-io        =3         99,90(
3
Concrete                 =          37,000
Gro-t                    t          3,D80                                                 _
steel Lining             t          3,805                                                                           -
RETEi'A  PO(ER        E-cOction                 a         86,710
70191  Concrete          =          26,670
Erection                 t          3,295
T'AIL.RACE            ExAvrtion                =          34,000
ConcreSe                 e          13,000
'LOP9T57A POWER       Exca.etion                a        317,000
79233                                           3
Con-rere-                          41,350
Eretion                  t            232                                                                                           _ _ _ _ _ _ _
9EC072DAF  Ik0TAKES   A-e-s Rosds              ks             35.3
Tnnel                     3       331,900
Cor-rete                 c         82,000
E.b-aok-ente             c3       120,350
Concrete                 =         43,950
CorMISSICNIING        Rerst-t I.. I           days            90
Reterst 1.. 2          dsys            90 
Clopotiv Nno I & 2      .ays            90                                                                                                       ,1,
Irc. 1976



ANNEX 10
APPRAISAL OF
THE RIUL MARE-RETEZAT HYDROPOWER PROJECT
ROMANIA
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
-- --US$ Million--------
IBRD Fiscal Year                                      Cumulative
and Quarter                                Disbursements at End of Quarter
1977
September 30, 1976                                         2060
December  31, 1976                                        4h05
March     31, 1977
June      30, 1977                                         9015
1978
September 30, 1977                                        1C045
December  31, 1977                                        13025
March     31, 1978                                        16.65
June      30, 1978                                        190 .5
1979
September 30, 1978                                        220)45
December  31, 1978                                        21h 20
March     31, 1979                                        27.15
June      30, 1979                                        30O85
1980
September 30, 1979                                        33065
December  31, 1979                                        37- 45
March     31, 1980                                        39.70
June      30, 1980                                        43060
1981
September 30, 1980                                        47o 
Denember  31, 1980                                        49o20
March     31, 1981                                        50 00
March 1976



Page 1 of 3
APPRAISAL OF
THE RIUL MARE-RETEZAT HYDROPOWER PROJECT
ROMANIA
An Extract frm the Ecological Report on
the Impact of the Pro.ject
Principal Recommendations
The best solution is to modify the original plan by changing the
main intake on the left bank of the Mare river. The first sector of the
intake on the left bank may be represented by the 6.5 kilometers initially
planned as a secondary intake between the dam and the Bodu. Downstream from
the confluence with the Bodu the intake would follow the left bank of the
Mare river as far as the bend in the latter.halfway between the Bodu and
Clopotiva. Here the intake can be switched to the right bank, receiving as
a secondary intake the one originally planned to draw the waters of the Barbat
and Riusor rivers. After that it will follow the originally planned route as
far as the Retezat Hydroelectric power station at Clopotiva. The waters of
Rades creek can be drawn directly into the dam lake through a short secondary
intake corresponding to the original portion of the main intake as it was
provided in the original plan.
These recommendations to change the route of the main intake are
indicated in the accompanying sketch (not included here, see IBRD 11791).
In this way all the planned catchments can be used outside of the
Zlatula and the other streams on the reservation.  Thus the scientific reserva-
tion remains intact,  Zlata  creek is ne:-t tapped, a discharge of water is
provided for that is very s2ightly less than that originally planned, and most
of the operations will be shifted to the left bank, which is less rocky.
The following additional measures are recommended to lessen the bad
effects of the operations upon the natural environment in the area where the
dan is being built (Gura Apei):
(1)  The workers should be permitted to go downstream toward Clopotiva
in their spare time but not upstream or on the slopes. The trucks
that bring in materials and go backc down epty should be directed
to carry workers to spend their spare time in the village0
(2)  Doubling the forest and hunting guards.
(3)  Propoganda posters opposing the destruction or disturbance of game,
devastation of natiue (especially the vegetation), etc.
(4) The film theaters in the area, especially those that may be provided
in barracks, should show as many documentaries as poszible on subjects
of natural protection.



ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 3
(5) All quantities of wood essential to the operations should be taken
from the site of the future lake, where the forest will be cut.
Not a single tree should be cut outside the site of the fature lake.
(6)  All quantities of gravel, sand, clay etc. should be procured from
downstream only or from the site of the future lake and not from
upstream or from slopes. Creation of gravel or clay pits on the
Lapusnic Mare or any other river that will feed the lake would have
very serious effects not only upon the vegetation and natural
environment but also upon the lake itself, threatening it with
rapid silting. Actually such operations (as for example the clay
pit originally proposed on the Lunca Berhinei) would require clearing
the forest and removing the fallow soil over many tens of hectares
in areas with abundant precipitations with much snow and ice, The
waters would wash it all away and carry huge quantities of alluvial
deposits into the Tall.ys.  The deep excavations inevitable in connec-
tion with such operations would lead to a radical change in the
hydrological system of the Lapusnic Mare. It would take centuries
to replace the soil and a vegetation that would retain and filter
the waters. Meanwhile the Lapusnic Mare would completely and
repeatedly silt up the lake at Gura Apei.
(7)  Before the forest is cut on the site of the lake, both the CMN
(Commission for Natural Monuments) and the Cluj CCB (Center for
Biological Studies) should be notified at least one or two months
in advance of the date the clearing will begin.  A group of botanists
from the CMN and the Cluj CCB will visit the site, transplant the
plants they see fit outside the site of the lake and herbalize other
plants.
(8)  The Hunting and Salmon Breeding Service in the Ministry ofrForestry
Economy, General Directorate of Forestry should be notified about a
month before the Mare river is dammed. This service will send a
number of guards provided with fishing gear, water suckers etc. to
stop the poaching when the river dries, collect the fish and transfer
them to the lake.
(9)  The CMN and the Bucharest Institute of Biological Sciences should
also be notified of the date the lake will begin to fill. A group
of zoologists will visit the site, check the gradual withdrawal of
the terrestrial fauna as the water rises, collect what is necessary
and save some of the animals that cannot save themselves.
(10)  Barracks that will house the workers must be built outside the
National Park.
(11)  Concentration of the operations on the left bank (where the present study
recommends the main water intake to be placed) will make it possible
to avoid traffic in the main area of the park. For this purpose the
footbridges put in when the geological studies were made must be dismantled.



ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 3
(12) Periodical instruction of personnel in the National Park's regime
and the observance of this regime.
(13)  Selection of the quietest possible working methods.
(14)  Minimizing the use of explosives.
(15)  Providing the Mare river with an adequate discharge.
March 1976



APPRAISAL OF
THE RIUL MARE-RETEZAT HYDROPOWER PROJECT
ROMANIA
Industrial Central for Electric Power and Heat (CIEET)
Income Statements for the Years 1973-1o5
(In Millions of Lei)
--- -Actual ----  -    ----_--------------------------                     ----  - Forecast ---------------------------------------------------
Year Ended December 31                                 1973       1974       1975       1976        1977       1978        1979        1980        1981       1982        1983         1984       1985
Electric Energy Sales (GWh)                          35,501     38,741     41,81o     44,610      47,410     50,600      53,830      57,500      58,670     62,24o      65,800       69,800     73.850
Average Revenue per kwh (lei)                          .313       .319       .321        .318       .316        .316        .313        .313       .313        .312        .312         .311       .311
Operating Revenues
Sales of Electricity                               11,120     12,360     13,421     34,i86     14,982      15,990      16,849      17,998      18,364     19,419      20,530       21,708     22,967
Sales of Heat                                      1,379       1,423      1,508      1,589      1,657       1,733       i,816       1,892       1,987      2,o86       2,169        2,256      2,346
Other Operating Revenue                              921         931        972      1,022       1,264      1,549       1,793       2,037       2,150      2,340       2,560        2,820      3,080
Total Operating Revenues                        13,420      14,714     15,901     16,797     17,903      19,272      2o,458      21,927      22,501     23,845      25,259       26,784     28,393
Operating Exoenses
Operation, Maintenance and Administration          2,588       2,741      2,897      2,980      3,072       3,259       3,569       3,847       3,784      4,052       4,284       4,314       4,468
Parchased Power                                       18          46         62         50          50         52          52          65          70         75          78           82         85
Fuel                                               4,661       4,989      5,393      5,710       6,163      6,679       7,321       7,935       8,o96      8,527       8,949        9,283      9,748
Depreciation                                        2,231      2,466      2,759      3,175       3,555      3,927       4,073       4,5io       4.816      5.329        5s922       6.819      7.445
Total Operating Expenses                         9,498      10,242     11,111     11,915      12,840     13,917      15,015      16,357      16,766     17,983      19,293       20,498     21,746
Operating Income                                     3,922       4,472      4,790      4,882       5,0'3      5,355       5,443       5,570       5,735      5,862       5,966        6,286      6,647
Other Tncome                                           210         180        107        120         135        145         157         167         175        i88         201          216        230
Gross Income                                      4,132      4,652      4,897      5,002       5,198      5,500       5,600        5,737      5,910      6,o50        6,167       6,502      6,877
Interest
Interest on Invested Funds                         i,845       3,021      3,082      3,533       3,969      4,420       4,655        5,149      5,700      6,o88       6,533        7,329      8,106
IBRD Loans                                                         2         10         28          75        115         138         167         169        166         162          157        152
Gross Interest                                 1,845       3,023      3,092      3,561       4,044      4,535       4,793       5,316       5,869      6,254       6,695        7,486      8,258
(Less:) Interest Charged to Construction       _             (2)       (10)       (28)        (75)      (115)        (51)         (70)       (43)        -           -            -          -
Net Interest                                  1,845      3,021      3,082      3,533       3,969      4,420       4,742        5,246      5,826      6,254        6,695       7,486      8,258
Net Income                                            2,287      1,631      1,815      1,469       1,229        u_          858          491         84        (204)       (528)       (984)    (1,381)
Rate of Retorts l)
Average Net Fixed Assets in Service and Actual
Working Capital                                    45,182     50,710     57,176     65,661      72,633     78,425      87,391       97,599    104,7i     112,176       10,225     133,218    148,453
Operating Income as % thereof                        8.7         8.8        8.4        7.4         7.0        6.5         6,2          5.7        5.5        5.3          5.O         4.7        4.5
March 1976



APPRAISAL OF
TIlE RIUL MARE-RETEZAT H4YDROPCWER PROJECT
ROMAHIA
Industrial Central for Electric P-wer and Heat (CTEET)
Balance Sheets for the Years 1973-1965
(In Millions of Lei)
A  --                                                      -----------Actal-orecast ------------------------------
As of December 31                                      1973        1976       1975        1976        1977        1978        1979        1980       1981        1982        1983        1984        1985
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Fixed Assets it Service (at cost)                  63,441      70,683      81,138    93,372      101,567     112,192     127,272     140,928    150,557    161,542      181,318     200,609     225,672
Less Accomulated Depreciation                     (16,368)    (18,520)    (21,279)  (24,454)    (28,009)    (31,936)    (36,009)    (40,519)   (45 335)   (50,664)   (56,646)    (63.465)    (70,910)
Net Fixed Assets in Service                        47,073       52,163      59,859    68,918      73,558      80,256      91,263    100,1409     105,222    110,878     124,672     137,144    154,762
Work in Progress                                   13,915       15,590      15,045    14,362      1824        19,732      17.703      18,117      23,431     28,246      25,170      23,579      17,4i6
Total Net Fixed Assets                          60,988       67,753     74,904    83,280       91,800      99,988     108,966    118,526     128,653     139,124    149,842    160,723       172,178
Current Assets
Cash at Hank                                          284          121        300        320         350         370         385        400          390        395         400         41o         420
Fuel and Material Stocks                              933        1,036       1,340     1,405       1,515       1,620       1,750       i,860      2,072       2,206       2,366       2,455       2,628
Accounts Receivable                                   452          686        550        570         600         640         675        710         755         810         840         895         980
Total Current Assets                             1,669        1,843      2,190      2,295       P,465       2,630       2,810       2,970      3,217       3,411       3,606       3,760       4,o28
TOTAL ASSETS                                    62,657       69,596      =0.294    85.575      94,2265    lo2p6i8     ILr7y6    121,496      131,870     142,535     153448      164,483       6
LIABILITIES
Equity and Borrowings
Fined Assets Fund                                  47,033       52,163     59,829    68,883       73,518      80,211      90,016     99,189     103,049     108,755     122,603     135,134     152,826
Investment Bank Loan                                  40            -          30         35          40          45         47          50          45          50          ss          60          55
Fxisting IBRD Loan                                                                                                         1,200      1,170       1,138       1,104       1,o68       1,029         987
Proposed TBRD Loan                                                                                            -          -_990                                  969         946         921         894
Total Equity and Horrowings                     47,073       52,163      59,859    68,918      73,558      80,256      91,263     100,409    105,222     110,878     124,672     137,144    154,762
Sources of Investments
Internal Cas.  Generation (Reinvested)             4,o60        3 944       4,298      4,388       4,898       5,169       5,153      5,206       5,403       6,248       7,327       7,067       7,378
State Bmdget Allocation                             9,480       9,746       9,209      7,370      10,219      11,294      11,161     11,242      16,254      19,923      16,078      14,862       8,808
Amounts Payable Construction                          375       1,900       1,448      1,987       1,850       1,585        64o         685       1,774       2,075       1,765       1,650       1,230
IBRD Loans                                                                     90        617       1,275       1J684        749         984
Total Sources of Investments                    13,915      15,590      15,045    14,362       18,?26      19,732      17,703     18,117      23,431      28,246      25,170      23,579      17,416
asrces of Working Capital
Working Capital Fund                                  832         980       1,035      1,123       1,233       1,348      1,453       1,578       1,706       1,830       1,955       2,110       2,280
Short Term Loans                                      108         112         130        150         162         170         178        185         189         196         205         200         220
Total Sources of Working Capital                   940       1,092       1,165      1,273       1,395       1,518      1,631       1,763       1,895       2,026       2,160       2,310       2,500
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable - Operations                         543         554         820        812         850         887        949         967       i,o80       1,140       1,196       1,196       1,268
Cuetomer Deposits                                     i86         197         205        210         220         225        230         240         242         245         250         254         260
Total Current Liabilities                          729         751       1,025      1,022       1,070       1,112      1,179       1,207       1,322       1,385       1,446       1,450      1,528
TOTAL LIABILITIES                               62,657      69,596      77,094     85,575      94,265     102,618    111,776     121,496     131,870     14 2,53
llarch 197(i



APPRAISAL OF
[idE RIUL MA3E-RETE7A: l1YD.R')CWER PROEIT
ROMANIA
TndustrinL Central for Electric Power and Heat (COET)
Sources and Applicationo of Funds for the Yean- 1973-o5
(In Millions of rei)
--cta---          --------------------------------         -     -     -    -     -     Foreonst-----------------------------------
Tota1                                                         Total
Year Ended Deoenbher 31                             1973        1974        1975       1976,       1977        1978        11479     1i80         1981        1975-81       1P82         1983        198L        1985       1975-85
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal rash Generation
Operating and Other Incoe                         i, 1 3,   4,652,      4,897       5,00,       5,198       5,500      5,6oo       5,73)       5,910        37,844        6,050       6,167       6,505                    63,44so
Less: Benefits Distributed                        (4i16)      (130)       (314)      (605)       (627)       (623)      (608)       194)        (768)       (4,19)         (769)       (9)         (0'         (4        ~     3
Eenefits Reicvected                           3,706   4, 591         4,983       4,3997      4,577                  4,991       8,088       5,14?        33,650        5,21        5,387 3,687             ,032         56,037
Depreciation Reinvested                          1,182       ,,427      2,719       3,115       3,500       3,867      4,oo8       4,470       4,746        26,425        5,259       5,907       6,744        ,365        51,700
Sales of Scrap etc.                                 59          26          78         82          73          76         79          96         100           584          104         110         51S         120         1,033
TotaL Internal Sources                      5,957       7,001       7,380       7,594      8,i44       8,820       9,079       9,654       9,988       6o,6s9        1o,644     u,404       12,546      13,517        108,770
External Sources
State Buldget Alloc-tion                         3,229      4,519       5,492       6,958       7,237       7,301      8,447       9,484      lO,844        55,769       11,194      12,081      12,737      13,757       105,83?
Invest=ent Bank L.-no                               40         -           30          35          4o          45         47          90          45           293           90          95          60          S9 512
Existing SBRD Lonn                                                          90        446         474         190                                            1,200                                                          1,200
Proposed IBRD Loan                                                                     91         184         219        265         235          16         l,000                      _                                   1,000
Total Internal Sources                       3,269       4,5i1       5,612       7,520       7,935      7,755       8,759       9,769      10,905        58,155       11,344      12,136     12,797      13,812        i09,544
TOTAL SOURCES                                9,226      11.524      12,992      18,114     16,079      16.575      17,838      19,423     2083          118,911      ?22188      33,540      25 ,43      27,329        217,314
APPLTCATIOBI OF FUNDS
Construction Requirce7snts , Iluld,ng
Ttereot Chnged to Conctr-cti-n)                  7,329      8,463       9,-l10     11,551      12,075      12,115     13,051      1',?'          :l, 4        , ;5        5,300      16,700      17,710      19,900       156,815
Debt Service
A=ortization of Loans                               52          40          -          30          35          40          45         107        124            381         134         145         157         111            988
Interes' on IBRD Lotno                                           2          10         29          75         115         138        167         169           702          166         162         157         152         1,339
Interent on Invested Funds                       1,845       3,021      3,082       3,533       3,969       4,420      4,655       5,149       5,700        30,508        6,o88       6,533      '.329        ulof         58,564
Less: Interest DSri9L  cn-tr-tcion                             (2)        (li)       (28)        (75)        (115)       (51)       (70)         41)         Jr)          -           -           - _                        (392)
Total Debt Service                             1,897      3,061       3,082       3,563       4,004      4,460       4,787       5.353       5.950        11.191        6,388       6,84o       ,64        842           60,499
TOTAL APPLICATIOdS                             9226      115 24  12,992          1511        16,079      16575         338      49423       2893             914                    354        L 33       2  39 
C Contribution to Investors,                        55          47          43          35          34         36          33          31          27            34           27          27                     27             31
Depreciation Expenses less nrounts allocated for non-centralised iv-toent 
March 1976



ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 4
APPRAISAL OF
THE RIUL MARE RETEZAT HYDROPOWER PROJECT
ROMANIA
Notes and Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
A.   Income Statement
1.   Electric energy sales are based on forecast growth in electricity sales
in Romania of: 10% in 1975, 7% in 1976 through 1980, 6% in 1981 through 1985.
Planned sales to neighbouring countries have been added to the quantities
obtained: 1975 through 1980: 3,800 GWh, 1981 through 1985: 1,800 GWh.
The decrease of 2,000 GWh from 1981 represents a reduction in sales to
Czechoslavakia following expiration of the existing contract agreement in
1980. Energy produced by auto producers has been subtracted. Electricity
tariffs are assumed to increase by 5% in mid-1976 and a further 5% in mid-
1981. The average revenue per unit sold shows a continuing downward trend
attributed to increasing consumption by agricultural consumers who are on
preferential rates and a greater volume of sales at high tension i.e. at
260 lei per kWh compared with low tension charges of 420-440 lei per kWh.
2.   Sales of heat assumed to increase 6% in 1975 and thereafter (as per
Romania's estimate), 5.4% in 1976, 4.3% in 1977, 4.6% in 1978, 4.8% in 1979,
4.2% in 1980, 5% in 1981 and 1982 and 4% in 1983 through 1985. It is expected
that prices for thermal energy will be reviewed prior to the commencement of
the 1976-80 5-Year Plan but no increases have been assumed for the purposes
of these projections. The forecasts are based on consumer requirements and
availability from thermal plants.
3.   Other Operating Revenue
(a) Income from sales of steam, industrial water and ash
(b) Revenues from the manufacturing/repair enterprises.
4.   Other Income includes net income of the distribution construction
units (SCM) which are self-accounting and independent from the enterprises.
5.   Operating Expenses
(a) Operation, Maintenance and Administration expenses are based on the
average cost per unit sold shown in CIEET's estimates as follows (in lei per
KWh):



ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 4
1975:  .0693  1976:  .0668  1977:  .0648  1978:  .0644
1979:  .0663  1980:  .0669  1981:  .0645  1982:  .0651
1983:  .0651  1984:  .0618  1985:  .0605
The CIEET was not able to furnish any detailed breakdown of these costs and
explained that they are estimated on the basis of the historical cost per
thousand units produced. Standard costs are agreed annually for purposes of
planning by the State Planning Committee and the MEE. No escalation factor
has been built into these estimates.
(b) Purchased power comes from three distinct sources:
(i)  imports from neighboring countries with whom trans-
mission lines are interconnected;
(ii) surplus power from auto producers largely that of the
Ministries of Chemical Industry and Heavy Machinery
which generate power for heating purposes; and
(iii) electricity generated during the commissioning of new
plant (operating costs are capitalized after offset-
ting revenues received).
(c) Fuel costs are based on CIEET's estimates as follows (in lei per
KWh):
1975:  .129  1976:  .128  1977:  .130  1978:  .132  1979:  .136
1980:  .138  1981:  .138  1982:  .137  1983:  .136  1984:  .133
1985: .132
The estimates have been derived from forecast quantities of fuel expected to
be available for power generation up to 1980. After 1980 the estimates re-
flect the expected trend. No escalation factor has been built into these
estimates except in the case of coal for which about 3% per annum has been
allowed.
(d) Depreciation is calculated using the conventional straight line
method. The rates are prescribed in Law 62 of 1968. The figures include
depreciation on the assets of the manufacturing/repair enterprises, but not
on the distribution construction units. Depreciation on assets used by the
distribution construction units (SCM) which operate within each distribution
enterprise is not included in the figures as SCM units are self-accounting.
Average rates of depreciation have been applied based on CIEET estimates:



ANNEX 1I
Page 3 of 4
1975:  3.4%  1976:  3.4%  1977:  3.5%  1978:  3.5%  1979:  3.2%
1980:  3.2%  1981:  3.2%  1982:  3.3%  1983:  3.3%  1984:  3.4%
1985:  3.3%
6.   Interest Comprises:
(a) Interest on invested funds which is applied at the rate of 4% on
net fixed assets at the beginning of the year and working capital funds.
This interest is not paid on items financed by IBRD loans since the benefici-
ary is already paying debt service on the loan. The MEE is proposing to seek
relief from the interest because the higher level of capital investment now
necessary and the greater emphasis on more capital intensive hydro works is
adversely affecting the 5-Year Plan projections 1976-80. It is considered
that the power sector is unlikely to be granted any special consideration
and no change in this interest charge has been assumed, and
(b) interest and commitment fees on IBRD loans are provided according
to the terms of the Turceni loan agreement and the proposed Bank loan. Inter-
est on short-term loans by the National Bank are included under operation,
maintenance and administration expenses.
B.   Balance Sheet
7.   Fixed Assets
Assets are valued in respect of their foreign content when financed
from the proceeds of a Bank loan at a rate of exchange of US$1 = 20 lei plus
the duty applicable except where items manufactured or similar to those manu-
factured in Romania are imported in which case they will be valued according
to the Romanian catalogue price (internal prices) plus duty. However, they
no longer use the Romanian internal price for goods manufactured in Romania
which are financed from the loan but the foreign trade price converted at
the rate of US$1 = 20 lei. All other fixed assets are valued at construction
cost. Investments made by other Ministries and vice versa, as they are gen-
erally not known, have been ignored. It is expected they would largely offset
each other. Net fixed assets in service correspond to the total of equity and
borrowings.
8.   Work in Progress
Finance for capital work in progress comes from three sources:
internal cash generation, state budget allocations and investment creditors.
The sum of these sources will match the work-in-progress figure in each year
of the forecasts.



ANNEX 15
Page 4 of 4
9.   Current Assets and Current Liabilities
Forecasts are based on estimates projected by the CIEET. Undistri-
buted benefits at year end have been included under accounts payable - opera-
tions and enterprise current balances are included under accounts receivable.
10. Sources of Working Capital
Funds are provided to each enterprise by the National Bank for work-
ing capital to meet costs of production. They take two forms: a working
capital fund which is fixed annually based on the minimum "normal" working
capital required during the year and short-term loans which are drawn as re-
quired to meet any excess. Short-term loans are made available from the
National Bank at rates of interest around 2-5% for periods up to a maximum
of one year. They are repaid from benefits.
C.   Sources and Applications of Funds
11. Benefits reinvested is the balance remaining to meet debt service and
internal requirements after deducting benefits distributed from operating
and other income. Benefits distributed comprise: state budget allocations,
annual bonus distribution to workers, increase in working capital funds, pay-
ments for modernization of plant, social welfare and the reserve fund.
12. Depreciation
Similarly with depreciation, an assumption was made that all de-
preciation moneys paid to the Investment Bank by the enterprises of the
Industrial Central would be reinvested in the sector. However, in the case
of fixed assets that have reached the end of their useful life, depreciation
charges have been continued but only 60% of the depreciation has been treated
as a source of funds; 15% is distributed by the CIEET to other enterprises
for non-centralized investments and the remaining 25% is used for improving
equipment within the enterprises.
13. Sales of Scrap are derived chiefly from materials used on investment
projects. These funds are paid directly to the National Bank and are not
treated as income in the income statement.
Mlarch 1976



A-NNEX 16
Page 1 of 4
APPRAISAL OF
THE RIUL MARE-RETEZAT HYDROPOWER PROJECT
ROMANIA
Justification
Load Growth Forecasts
1.        The growth of the Romanian power sector was comparatively rapid
at some 16.5% p.a. during the decade 1960-1970. Thereafter it reduced to
about 10% on average in the period 1970 to 1975. The impact of the decree
of November 1973 enforcing economy measures in the use of energy, resulted
in a sharp reduction of sales and power demand. However, since the objective
was to improve efficiency of utilization rather than to restrict development
and industrial output, and the production targets of the 5-year plan 1971-
1975 are still intended to be met, the growth rate is expected to be about
10% in 1975. Although this will have been affected by the flood damage
sustained during June and July, the figures assumed for this report are of
acceptable accuracy for the purpose in hand. In the Romanian system, the
estimates of future performance are derived from the correlation of statisti-
cal trend analyses, the analysis of the power requirements to achieve the
industrial targets for the future 5-year plan period, and the socio-economic
indicators for the period considered. This has led to a judgment that a
7% annual growth rate for the period 1976 - 80 is likely to be followed by
a 6% annual growth of electricity sales within Romania during 1981-1985.
Such expectations are modest and may well be on the low side. Annex 2 shows
the projections on the basis described above.
2.        At present, the system load factor is at a high 71% in terms of
energy generated and power demand at the generator terminals. The high pro-
portion of energy used by industry operating at high utilization factors
supports this condition. It is however expected that there will be a pro-
gressive decline in the next decade to a 69% load factor and the system
maximum demands shown in Annex 2 reflect this trend. The projected figures
of maximum demand used in this report are, however, 8-1/2%, and 14% below the
official forecast demand for 1980 and 1985 used by the Romanians as a base
for their planting programs. It is clear from the diagram of the Romanian
system planting capability and demand forecast, Annex 4, that there is a risk
of over-planting in the later years. Up to 1977 there is likely to be a
one year margin of safety in the commissioning of plant over and above the
planned system reserves shown in Annex 5. Thereafter unless development
is faster than anticipated in this forecast, the program of planting becomes
progressively more premature until in 1983 it is three years in advance of
the requirements.



ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 4
3.        As is to be expected, substantially all new plant to be commis-
sioned in the period up to 1980 is either actively under construction or has
reached a stage of final commitment as has this Project.
Development Program
4.        Mathematical models to evaluate and compare alternative development
patterns of the Romanian power system have been used by the borrower for more
than ten years. These evaluations have included the selection of the power
generation development program, the development and analysis of the transmis-
sion system, the probabilistic analysis of plant failure and system reliabil-
ity leading to the evaluation of the optimum system plant reserve capacity
and others.
5.        In June of 1969, at the Power Systems Computation Conference held in
Rome, a paper was presented entitled "Models for the study of power system
development by means of digital computers". This paper describes a linear
program to determine the present worth least cost development plan taking into
account the many variable assumptions that are usual in such work.
6.        In 1972, at about the time that the decision to proceed with the
Riul Mare Project was taken, a least cost development program was evaluated
and the final result is summarized in Attachment 1. It has not been possible
to review the program and input data used to obtain this result and such data
as was made available is not sufficiently complete to allow an independent
analysis which would give adequate confidence in the results to warrant the
attempt. It must be remembered that the Project, Riul Mare-Retezat, is only
a small part of the total power station construction program.  However, the
_ results indicate that under any of the assumed conditions of fuel importation,
3'Ti2lelcost,and specifi$. nye,s,,ent cost for nuclear plant, there is a place
in 1985 for-,hydro peaking&capacity to,,he,extent of 400 MW and the Riul Mare
I project with its associated downstream cascade development, fills this need
beingt  cheapest-of the hydro schemes from which a choice could be made.
The impact of increased fuel costs since 1972 (the time of decision), would
not affect this situation. Whereas the assumptions of installed plant needs
have been reduced by 29% since the program was run, this cannot be said to
invalidate the decision then taken to proceed with the Project, but indicates
the need to review the program in respect of the timing of plant installation
which is still amenable to change. On the basis of the limited data presented,
the Borrower claims that the Riul Mare Project forms part of the least cost
development program. Facilities were however not granted to examine in detail
the data leading to this conclusion.
7.        This Project is planned to come into service to the extent of 25%
of full output in 1981, 52% in 1982, 85% in 1983 and to be fully operational
in 1984. In 1983, the 349 MW of Project plant is 15% of the total 2,327 MW
of new plant to be commissioned in that year. At that time, the system peak-
ing power requirement will be about 3,000 MW, towards which the Project will



ANNEX-16
Page 3 of 4
contribute 11-1/2% in terms of power, and 12% in terms of the energy require-
ment in the peak area of the load curve. The characteristics of the Project
are such that 96% or more, of its energy will be delivered during the system
peak demand hours for an average 5 hours per day. Thus, the benefits attrib-
utable to the Project are at least as great as the value of the energy that
can be sold during peak hours. Since all the available energy can be credited
with the highest rate of benefit, it can be argued that the installation of
greater MW power capacity would result in a lowering of the economic benefit/
cost ratio. The Project is designed to operate the equivalent of 1,800 hours
per year at full power rating and fits into the peak area of the system load
curve. Since the annual energy available from the water potential is fully
utilized in the design, any additional installed power capacity would result
in a lower annual utilization of the plant. Power demands of lower time dura-
tion are more economically met by the application of power reserves of running
base load plant or other low capital cost plant. The installed plant capacity
is considered appropriate.
Calculation of Benefits
8.        Since all the 349 MW of power and 630 GWh of energy from the Project
will be sold in the system peak area, they will attract revenue appropriate to
that sales class. In order to judge as closely as possible the value at the
power station, it is reasonable to use the tariff that applies to customers
purchasing power at 110 kV and above. Under this tariff, power taken during
evening peak hours is charged at 706 lei p.a. per kW of demand and an energy
charge of 0.30 lei per kWh.
9.        The Project plant is assumed to have a station loss of 3% and trans-
mission losses to the consumer's terminals of a further 5%. The saleable
power is thus 321.6 MW and energy 580.5 GWh p.a.
10.       The benefit based on the foregoing would thus be:
Million lei
321,600 kW at 706 lei/kW                            227
580.5 GWh at 0.30 lei/kWh                           174
401
Less annual cost of transmission line
operation and maintenance
580.5 GWh at 0.002 lei/kWh                            1
400
which works out at 0.69 lei/kWh sold.



ANNEX 16
Page 4 of 4
11.       According to the Borrower's analysis of the yields from tariffs and
the sales allocable to the three areas of the load curve, in the categories
of base, secondary peak and primary peak, the effective weighted values
relative to the average yield of the whole system is:
1.8 times average yield in primary peak,
1.15       "         "    " secondary peak, and
0.935        "       "    " base load area.
12.       The average yield in 1974 was 0.324 lei/kWh for sales in Romania,
whereas a yield of 0.373 lei/kWh was realized for export sales. It is
reasonable to assume therefore that the higher figure is more representative
of the economic value than the lower internally controlled price. At peak
periods, the value would be not less than 0.373 times 1.8 i.e. 0.67 lei/kWh
which relates well with the first estimate of 0.69 lei/kWh. It is reasonable
to assume therefore that the direct benefits are not less than the saleable
output valued at 0.67 lei/kWh, i.e. 389 million lei per annum.
13.       An evaluation of the useful energy that could be generated down-
stream of the Project both with and without the water storage capacity of the
Project works, leads to the conclusion that a net gain of 100 GWh are obtain-
able for sale, comprising a gain of 202 GWh at primary peak, a loss of 47 GWh
at secondary peak and a loss of 55 GWh at base load in an average year.
Thus the benefit to be derived is:
Million lei
202 GWh at 0.67 lei/kWh                 135.3
Less  47 GWh at 0.43 lei/kWh                   20.2
Less  55 GWh at 0.35 lei/kWh                   19.25
95.85
14.       Although the regulation of the Riul Mare, and to a lesser degree
the Strei river before it joins the Mures river, will tend to make more water
available during the normally low flow periods, no basis was available for
any assessment of its economic worth in terms of, say, supporting industrial
developments which previously would have been inhibited by the lack of a
reliable perennial source of water. The value of regulated water for agri-
cultural purposes was not considered to be significant to the area involved.
Flood control benefits were discounted because no evidence could be presented
of previous flood damage in the region influenced by the Project.
March 1976



APPRAISAL OF
THE RIUL MARE-RETEZAT HYDROPOWER PROJECT
ROMANIA
Least Cost Development Program Analysis of
Romsanian Power Generation System
Assumptions:
Date analysis made:              1972
Projected plant requirements in 1985       Annual generation - 150,000 GWh, System maximum demand in December - 25,700 HP, System load factor 66.69%
Approximation of load duration curve                       86.7                                                              El  - 16,840 hrs       Period T comprises Jan, Feb., Mr., Oct.,
80.7                       E2  = 27~~~~~,51  hrs                     Nv,Dec.
72.2                                                     E3  = 25,973 hrs
71.1                  ~~~~~Elf     9,938 hrs  Period II          April, May, June, July,
E5    30,607 hire                         Aug., Sept.
57.5                                           E6  =27,150 hrs
54555                                       Blocks El & E4   - represent evening peak.
E2 & ES   - represent daily mean loaLd.
El       E2       E3       Elf    ES        E6                                                   E3 & E6   -represent night aLnd rest
days load.
821     1617     1930    514    1796       2082      hrs/annum
GPeriod I - 4368 h        ) FPeriod II - 4392 h
Energy resources available for power development:
a)  Solid carboniferous:        15,464 x 103 tonnes coal equivalent of which
- lignite                   10,600
- brown coal                   270
- bituminous schyst          1,430
- hard coal                  3,194
b)  Hydrocarbons                11,450 x 103 tonnes coal equivalent
(oil and gas)
c)  Industrial gases etc.        1,500 x 10  tonnes coal equivalent
d)  Hydroelectric                (defined later)
e) Nuclear
PI- 0
aT



APPRAISAL OP
ThE RIUL MARE-RETEZAT HYDROPOWER PROJECT
ROMARIA
Least Cost Development Program Analysis of
Romanian Power Generation System
Assumptions:
Generating facilities:    A.  Existing and committed plant allowing for retirements in period 1975-1985.
a)  Condensing thermal plant                                         10,100 MW    of which
(i)  natural gas fired with unit sizes from 50 to 200 MW         1,200 hW
(ii)  oil fired with units from 200 MW to 330 MW                  2,740 Mw
(iii)  oil fired with units of 100 MW or less                         300 MW
(iv)  lignite fired with units of 200 MW                             600 NW
(v)  lignite fired with units of 330 MW                          3,930 MW
(vi)  coal fired with units from 100 to 200 MW                    1,350 MW
b)  Non condensing thermal plant                                      5,742 MW    of which
(i)  gas and oil fired with unit sizes from 50-100 YW            5,100 MW
(ii)  coal fired with units greater than or equal to 25 MW           700 MW
c)  Hydroelectric plant                                               5,160 MW    producing 14,870 GWh in an average year; of which
(i)  Primary peaking stations                                    2,139 MW                 3,928 GWh
(ii)  Secondary peaking stations                                  1,757 MW                  2,190 GWh                     in period I and
2,920 GWh                     in period TT
(iii)  Danube stations                                              1,265 MW         "       2,655 G0Wh                    in period I and
3,155 GWh                     in period TI
B. Additional planting possibilities in period 1980-1985,
a) Hydroelectric plant
(i)  Primary peaking capacity         : Specific investment cost 11,000 lei/kW installed, Output;  400 MW and 800 GWh  (Riul Mare)
(ii)     "                                                          13,000 lei/kW    "       ,       :  44o MW  "  930 GWh  (Viscu Bistra Biscu Mare-'Kinlbuu)
(iii)  Secondary & base load capacity:                                4 15,000 lei/kW         ,   "      1945 MW    2240 GWh  in period I and
2907 OWh  in period IT
(iv)  Danube stations                 :          "             "   19,100 lei/kW      "      ,   "   :  810 MW  "1920 GWh  in period I and
2260 (Mh  in period IT
(v)  Pumped storage capacity          :                             5,000 lei/kW
b) Condensing thermal plant.
(i)  lignite burning with unit sizes of 330 MW .  Specific investment 3,800 lei/kW installed  )   lignited by resources defined
(ii)  bituminous schist   "        "     " 30 h:                            5 '  4,700 lei/kW                above.
(iii)  imported fuel oil burning          "  330 MW:                         2,800 lei/kW
(iv)  imported coal burning                 330 AV : "               "      3,700 lei/kW
c)  Nuclear plant having a specific investment cost of 7,000 lei/kW.
By 1985 it was considered possible to develop only some 3,000 to 4,000 MW of nuclear plant having an output of 15,500 GWh p.a.
I90



APP',AISAI 0i
THE RIUI MARE-RFTEAT fHYDO')7WII P,SHO(rCT
ROMANITA
Least Cost Development Progarm Analysis of
Romanian Power Generation System
Assumptions
Fuel Costs                     lignite    -  540 lei/tonne coal equivalent
nuclear    - 1600 lei/kg natural uranium
Variants studied        Variable        Importation quantity          Imported fuel price          Specific investment cost of Nuclear plant
I           No imports                      540 lei/tce                          7,000 lei/kW installed
II           restricted 6imports             700 lei/tie 8,200 lei/kW Installed
to TO x 10 tce
III           unrestricted                    900 lei/tce
Results:                                                                                                         Varian-
Prarameter                                   1            2           3           4          5           6            7           8
Fuel importation level                               I            T         TT          I  IT                   I           ITII        TIT
Fuel importation cost level                                       -           I          T         III         III             I        TIT
Nuclear investment cost level                      IT             T         II           I II                    I            II           I
Total installed capacity of which                 36,720      36,750      36,760      36,760      36,530      36,670      36,560      36,720
Uncommitted capacity of which                     15,760      15,788      15,799      15,799      15,570      15,710      15,600      15,764
Primary peaking capacity                             4oo         400         400         40          4oo00       400         400         400
Secondary peaking and base load capacity              440         243           -           -                                   -           -
Ramped storage capacity                            1,000         845         139         139       4,94o       2,360       3,400          94
Lignite fired with 330 md units                    3,160       3,370       2,490       2,490       P,310       3,000       2,310       2,430
Bituminous schale with 330 Ml units                   750        750         750         750         680         680         680         680
Oil fired with imported oil with 330 2W units        660         660       7,920       7,920         66o         660       6,210       8,680
Nuclear capacity                                    9,350      9,520       4,100       4,100       6,580       8,610       2,600       3,480
Excess of cost over least cost %                   16.78        8.68        3.27           0       21.32        8.50        3.25        8.04
March 1976                                                                                                                                                                               D   H



ABBEX i6
Attachment 2
APPRAISAL OF
TRIE RIlJI MARE-ETEZAT HYDROPOW4ER PROJECT
ROMAIA
Project Internal Economic Rate of Return
-------------------------- Costs -________  _                                                                                Benefits -----------------------------
Operating Cost &                                       Increase       Increase        Total     Net Benefit
Capital Coot    Capital Additiqns   Operating 1ost   additional pjant    Total Cost             Sales from     Riul Mare        Strei       Benefits      + or -
Year         Basic           in Cascades 1         Basic >         in cascade L.        Basic               Project       Cascade       Cascade        Basic         Basic
1975           208                                                                         2o8                                                                       -208.0
76           434                                                                         434                                                                        434.0
77           656                                                                         656                                                                       -656.0
78           893                                                                         893                                                                       -893.o
79         1,087                                                                       1,087                                                                     -1,087.0
80           917                                                                         917                                                                       -917.0
81           485                 10                  6                                   501                100.3                                     100.3        -400.7
82           185                 42                 12                                   239                208.5                                     208.5          30.5
83           105                 64                 20                                   189                340.9          9.6                        350.5         161.5
84                               49                 25                  2                 76                4o0           19.2                        420.2         344.2
85                               31                 25                  2                 58                401           28.8          9.5           439.3         381.3
86                               29                 25                  3                 57                401           38.4         19.0           458.4         4o1.4
87                               20                 25                  3                 48                40o           48.o         28.5           477.5         429.5
88                                5                 25                  4                 34                40o           48            38.0          487.0         453.0
89                                                  25                  4                 29                4o1           48            47.5          496.5         467.5
90                                                  25                  4                 29                4o0           48           47.5           496.5         467.5
91                                                  25                  4                 29                40o           48           47.5           496.5         467.5
92                                                  25                  4                 29                40o           48           47.5           496.5         467.5
93                                                  25                  4                 29               4ho            48           47.5           496.5         467.5
94                                                  25                  4                 29                40o           48           47.5           496.5         467.5
95                                                  25                  4                 29                40o           48            47.5          496.5         467.5
96                                                  25                  4                 29                401           48           47.5           496.5         467.5
97                                                  25                  4                 29                4o1           48            47.5          496.5         467.5
98                                                  25                  4                 29                401           48            47.5          496.5         467.5
99                                                  25                  4                 29               4ho            48            47.5          496.5         467.5
2000                                                  25                  4                 29                401           48            47.5          496.5         467.5
2001                                                  25                  4                 29                40o           48            47.5          496.5         467.5
02                                                  25                  4                 29                401           48            47.5          496.5         467.5
03                                                  25                  4                 29                401           48            47.5          496.5         467.5
o4                                                  25                  4                 29                4o0           48            47.5          496.5         467.5
05                                                  25                  4                 29                4o0           48           47.5           496.5         467.5
06                                                  25                  4                 29                4oi           48           47.5           496.5         467.5
07                                                  25                  4                 29                401           48           47.5           496.5         467.5
o8            68                                    25                  4                 97                260           4o           40             34o           243.O
09           115                 39                 25                  4                183                260           40           40             340           157.0
10            45                 65                 25                  4                139                260           4o           4o             340           201
11                               26                 25                  4                 55               4ho            48           47.5           496.5         441.S
12                               17                 25                  4                 46                401           48           47.5           496.5         450.5
13                               29                 25                  4                 58                401           48            47.5          496.5         438.5
14                               12                 25                  4                 4i                401           48            47.5          496.5         45S.5
15                                                  25                  4                 29                4o1           48           47.5           496.5         467.5
16                                                  25                  4                 29                4o1           48           47.5           496.5         467.5
17                                                  25                  4                 29                401           48           47.5           496.5         467.5
18                                                  25                  4                 29                4o0           48           47.5           496.5         467.5
19                                                  25                  4                 29                401           48           47.5           496.5         467.5
20                                                  25                  4                 29                401           48           47.5           496.5         467.5
21                                                  25                  4                 29                40i           48           47.5           496.5         467.5
22                                                  25                  4                 29                4o0           48            47.5          496.5         467.5
2023                                                  25                  4                 29                4o0           48            47.5          496.5         467.5
2024        -1,356 A                                  25 L                4             -1,327                401           48            47.5           496.5      1,823.5
Equalicing Discount Rate 6
/1  On basis of initial value of civil works  3521 x 106 lei in 1983
depreciated ror 4i years e ij p.m. straight line.
2 Assusms costs 30% greater than Borrower's estimate.
3  Assumes costs 5% greater than Borrower's estimate.
March 1976



ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 3
APPRAISAL OF
THE RIUL MARE-RETEZAT HYDROPOWER PROJECT
ROMA'NTA                                                    V
Comparisons with Alternatives
1.        The ISPH has presented an analysis making comparisons with direct
alternatives in the form of an equivalent gas turbine plant and an equivalent
pumped storage plant to achieve the same level of benefit as is attributable
to the Riul Mare-Retezat Project including the enhanced power and energy
capacities of the downstream cascades influenced by the storage and regulating
capacity of the Gura Apelor reservoir. The following assumptions were made.
(1)  The cost streams cover a 65-year period which supposes that
the Project and the downstream cascade stations will take 15
years to develop and that the works will have a 50-year life
thereafter.
(2)  Alternatives are brought to a co'nmon worth base at the begin-
ning of 1984 using discount rates of 4, 6, 8, 10 and 12%.
(3)  The firm power of the Project is 328 MW to which 141 MW of
enhanced capacity of the cascade stations must be added giving
a total plant capacity of 469 MW for the Project.
(4)  The Project delivers 628 G1h p.a. to the system and the increased
capacity of the cascade stations is 111 GWh p.a., i.e. a total
of 739 GWh p.a. after full development. Appropriate lesser
amounts are allowed in line with the Project and cascade com-
missioning prograrn.
(5)  The cascade development of the Riul Mare will be executed in
the period 1983 to 1986 and that on the Strei downstream of the
Riul Mare confluence between 1986 and 1988.
(6)  Due to the lesser availability of gas-turbine plant the com-
parable G.T. unit would need to be rated 1.18 times greater i.e.
469 x 1.18 = 553 MW. Correspondingly to allow for greater
plant auxiliary losses the equivalent annual energy at alter-
nator terminals will need to be 793 GWTh in a year of full
equivalent utilization.
(7)  For a pumped storage alternative, the power at generator
terminals would be the same as the Project, 469 MW. To supply
the same delivered energy, 739 GWh assuming a pumping efficiency



ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 3
of 68%, the pumps would absorb 1087 GWh p.a. at full utiliza-
tion. Such energy would be supplied at marginal cost which is
assumed to be the fuel cost only.
(8) The electro-mechanical plant was assumed to have a life of
25 years after which it would be replaced.
(9) Operating costs for all plant are calculated assuming an
average wage of 2,000 lei/month plus 15% contribution for
social insurances as judged appropriate for the year 1980.
(10)  The cost of additional plant in the cascade stations downstream
of the Project was assumed to be 2,000 lei/kW, and operating
costs at 40 lei/per additional installed kW/year.
(11)  Investment for gas-turbine plant is estimated at 2,750 lei/kW
spread over a 3-year construction period in the proportion of
25%, 45% and 30%. A plant life of 25 years is assumed.
(12)  Gas turbine operation and maintenance not including fuel costs
is 52 lei/kWh.
(13)  Fuel costs are based on a price of US$66/t of fuel oil or 1,000
lei/tonne coal equivalent fuel. The specific consumption of a
gas turbine is taken as 0.578 kg coal equivalent per kWh and
0.4 kg coal equivalent for a steam plant in the secondary peak
area.
(14)  The specific investment for a pumped storage scheme is taken as
lei 4,000/kW installed spread over a four year construction
schedule in the proportion of 15%, 25% 35% and 25% and having a
life of 25 years.
(15)  Operation and maintenance costs of a pumped storage plant ex-
cluding the pumping energy costs are taken as 70 lei/kWh.
Pumping energy costs are based on the fuel costs of a base steam
plant at 0.336 kg coal equivalent/kWh including transmission line
losses.
2.        The comparison of the cost streams gives the following results in
terms of worth in 1980 in millions of lei, see Attachment 1.
Discount rate (%)                    4         6       8        10        12
Gas turbine equivalent            13,537   10,659   8,983   7,960    7,316
Pumped storage equivalent         11,980    9,691   8,385   7,617    7,166
Project                            5,935    6,365   6,886   7,498    8,200



ANEiR 17
Page 3 of 3
3.        In both comparisons the equalizing discount rate exceeds 10%.  Al-
though the Bank's estimate of the Project cost exceeds the 4,100 million lei
assumed in this comparison, this will not significantly alter the conclusion
since similar increases would apply to the thermal alternatives and further-
more full costs assumed in this comparison to reflect fuel oil at USS66 per
ton are some 33% lower than present or likely future costs.
March 1976



APPRAISAL OF
THE RIUL MARE-RETEZAT HYDROPOWER PROJECT
ROMANIA
Comparison With Other Po_wer Stations
Annual Costs (million lei)
Cascade Downstream the Riul Mare and Strei Rivers                                 Gas-fuelled
Retezat and Clopotiva Hydro       Downstream the Riul Mare and                           thermal power station                            U.H.E,A.P,
Power Stations                     Strei Rivers                                                Ex-
Year        Investments    Expenditures        Investments      Expenditures      Total         Investments    penditures    Total       Investments   penditures       Total
1974             15               _        -                          -              15              -               -             -           _              _
1975            128               -                 -                 -             128              -               -             -           -              -
1976            310                -                -                 -             310              -               -             -           -              -
1977            557                -                -                 -             557              -               -             -          91              -            91
1978            777               -                 -                 -             777            124               -          124          250              -           250
1979            832                -                -                 -             832            356               -          356          384              -           384
1980            699               -                 -                 -             699            398               -          398          408              -           4o8
1981            370             5.7                 8                 -           383.7            199            91.5        290.5          228           80.9         308.9
1982            152            12.3                32                 -           196.3             80           199.4        279.4           98          176.4         274.4
1983             80            ?0.3                49                 -           149.3             97           330.7        427.7          109          291.3         400.3
1984               -           23.9                38              1               62.9             82           412.1        494.1          100          358.2         458.2
1985               -           23.9                24              2               49.9             67           432.3        499.3           80          377.7         451.7
1986               -           23.9                22              2.70            48.6             66           448.8        514.8           67          382.5         449.5
1987               -           23.9                15              3.15            42.05            46           459.5        505.5           46          388.9         434.9
1988               -           23.9                 4              3.60            31.5             15           469.5        484.5           15          395.1         410.1
1989-2007            -           23.9                 -              3.85            27.75             -           475.7        475.7            -          398.6         398.6
2008             56            23.9                 -              3.85            83.75           171           475.7        646.7          104          398.6         502.6
2009             94            23.9                30              3.85           151.75           378           475.7        853.7          229          398.6         627.6
p010             37            23.9                50              3.85           114.75           265           475.7        740.7          160          398.6         558.6
2011               -           23.9                20              3.85            47.75            60           475.7        535.7           37          398.6         435.6
2012               -           23.9                13              3.85            40.75            39           475.7        514.7           24          398.6         422.6
2013               -           23.9                22              3.85            49.75            67           475.7        542.7           40          398.6         438.6
2014               -           23.9                 9              3.85            35.75            27           475.7        502.7           16          398.6         414.6
2015-2037            -           23.9                  -             3.85            27.75             -           475.7        475.7             -         398.6         398.6
2038          -1010            23.9               -16              3.85          -993.25           -51           475.7        424.7         -4i0          398.6         -11.4
March 1976
, .






9~                a                                     -   ur  l           -  J - --- 
N~~~~~~   Z~ ~~~
_~ E5E/  
: J  >      '  *
N   N4~~~~~~~7
8 U u 3, E S E I X 2 i !2  NtX - " - .   e \. |
X   ...  V   , X-BFw) V,                          \         ji1
0'3t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'A-'|






EBRD 11791
SEPTEMBER 10/5
PROFILE OF THE CLOPOTIVA AND RETEZAT DEVELOPMENT SCHEME                                                   SOCIALIST  REPUBL OF ROMANIA
RIUL MARE-RETEZAT HROPOWER PROJECT                                                                                                                        (
Proje I;                                                    re dow.Future devlpmet
Doa s               O                       , Dm    'ES poe plants p-
S-d-onayoatonnh-t tjnl              Embanamets
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iarv tuoe                                                            U\ Po en SniauuniensX   \                                                                       j
Dvrae tank            9~~0  Spot en Ms nh mter
Peestok                      -Roads                                                                                                          MRA
--k                          LPd.19,-~~~~~eargovd hrydn po-ertation ----RilodsMERIA
-glh                       ~~~~~~~Clopotiva ovegnoa..d    --JRive,n
hydra power station                                                                     :-
Tadnae                        L-More  Rive Boslo to-da,ly
sRvor- (projec and tsf l At inee anT noons I
PraIeo ovo-et                 ..e I .. N  -aol park bonorye                        Cascade RI Stel-dwnsdO-trea--                                        lee       '
P     sld -n   p0.                                                       215 G     ae                                                  .. -....v
E, --Av-rgae o1sn 
t1Ht /<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~acd  Riv)1O/>il St-dowena                                                                                                                            .,        /       + l/-~i)>
P-lOS MW ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~d~Pr
Oi_  20,100 LwOMTRS                                                                              Thalsa
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                          I    -1
MILE,0Ss,~>s                                                                                                                            ~                           }EHSl/-                                 IE 
Soceerare                     CONNECTION  TO THE 220 KV NETWORK
-  e ,7   -  Saloon                                'A-                 ~~~~~~~RIUL MARE HYDRO  POWER STATION
P, tso oErran             THERMAL ir \t
Sd                            .1'~~~~~~~o RivI Mare -oe Iveace  -- -T---ns ieni  I-
R.---~~~~~~~~---evn                                                 eno nae
Tonal am~  etarsa    220/ 110 KV
M-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
RETEZAT ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~                                /                                                            ,~~~~~~~             os~~~~~~oi MARE~~REHET11
220/110 KV                     M-s~20/10 R
."M       J..~~~~Pnese 



