CIRCULATING COPY
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
it     9    tC    P   Y                Report No. P-1168-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 10, 1973
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency units                =   Tanzanian shillings (TSh)
US$1                              Tsh7.14
TShl                          -   US$0.14
TShl,000                      =   US$140
TShl,000,000                  =   US$140,000
Fiscal Year                   -   April 1 - March 31



REPORT AŽN) RECO fEiNDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TI THE EXaCUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMEi1' CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A SECOND LIVESTOCK DMVELOPiE4T PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a
proposed development credit to the United Republic of Tanzania for
the equivalent of US$18.5 million on standard IDA terms to help
finance a Second Livestock Development Project.  The bulk of the
proceeds of the credit would be relent to the Tanzania Rural
Development Bank for 20 years including 5 years grace with interest
at 4 per cent per annum. TRDB would onlend these funds at D2, per cent.
PART I - THE EC Oi'NMY
General
2.        An economic mission visited Tanzania daring August and Seoteniber
1971.  Volume I of the mission's main report (AE-26) together with annexes
was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 22, 1972 and June 22, 1972.
An updating mission visited Tanzania in August and September 1972 and its
report was distributed to the Executive Directors on December 11, 1972.
Basic data on the Tanzanian economy are given in Annex I.
-3.        Tanzania celebrated its first decade of independence in December
1971. In the post eleven years gross national product increased in real
terms by some 65 percent to the present level of about 4i.5 billion.  During
the same period, life expectancy at birth increased from 35 to 41 years,
infant mortality declined from 250 to 160 per thousand live births, maternal
mortality declined from 4.7 to 2.7 per thousand deliveries, and the primary
school enrollment rate increased from about 28 to 37 percent of the relevant
age grouo. 'While this sample of economic and social ind-cators shows that
significant progress has been made, it also gives somae idea of the magnitude
and difficulty of the development tasks facing the country.  For example,
while Gi'J grew at 1..7 percent per annum in real terms during the5e years,
these gains were to a large extent offset by the growth of poPulation,
with the result that per capita income increased at only 2.4 percent per
annum.
4.        Tanzania was one of the few African states to emierge with a
one-party system at the time of independence.   In economic policy making
the long term objective of social equality prevails over economic interests
of minority groups, and some progress towards reducing inequality of income
distribution within the category of emuployed workers has been made, but
large gaps continue to exist between urban and rural standards of living.



-2-
Economic Performance and Resource M4obilization
Although short of the targets enunciated in the Second Five-
Year Plan (1969-74), Tanzania's effort to mobilize both domestic and
foreign resources has been impressive. The marginal national savings
rate was in fact as high as 50 percent in 1970 and 1971. However, the
absolute levels of savings (about 23 percent of GDP) were lower than
expected because the growth rate was lower. Recurrent revenues
(excluding profits from parastatal companies) amount to about 25 percent
of monetary GDP at market prices, and the overall rate of taxation is
one of the highest among developing countries of comparable economic
structure and per capita income level. In terms of current foreign aid
disbursements, the Peoples Republic of China is presently Tanzania's
principal donor, supplying about 75 percent of the net capital inflow
in 1971. In terms of outstanding commitments, however, the Bank Group
is the largest donor to Tanzania followed by Sweden, Norway and the
Soviet Union. Including Tanzania's notional one-third share of the
debt of the East African Community Corporations, the IBRD is presently
carrying 13   percent of Tanzania's total external debt and IDA 16
percent.  Most capital aid to Tanzania is made available on very
favorable terms; about 50 percent of the total is tied to procurement
in the donor country.  Supplier credits have been kept to minimum. The
overall debt service ratio is around 9 percent, which although quite
manageable is higher than projected because of a shortfall in exports.
In view of the pooIr market prospects of Tanzania's main export crops, it
is important that aid be kept as soft as possible sc as not to over-
burden the balance of payments.
Current Constraints
6.        The investment ra-te has recently levelled off after reaching
a record high or nearly 33 percent of monetary GDP at market prices in
1971.  This is more than the country can sustain in the long run, but
the investment rate is expected to decline somewhat following the
completion of the Tanzanian portion of the Chinese financed Tanzania-
Zambia railway project near the middle of 1974.  This project has
accounted for about one quarter of total investment in Tanzania in
recent years.   The combination of exceptionally high inves-tnent rates
and lower than planned national savings gave rise to severe pressures
on resources, resulting in some price inflation since 1967.    In
addition, the balance of payments situation became very tight because
much of the investment required imported goods and equipment.  Tlese
press-res have now eased somewhat as a result of credit restrictions
and a temporary contraction of capital expenditures by Government
ministries. Even with the expected decline in the rate of investment
and recovery in national savrings, Tanzania will require a continued



3-
capital inflow in excess of the foreign exchange component of high
oriority projects; some foreign financing of local expenditures will
therefore be justified.
7.        The increased rate of investment has not been significantly
reflected in the growth of gross national product.   This was mainly a
result of the heavy bias in these investments towards infrastructure.
As a consequence, the Government has decided to shift the emphasis of
its investmient programs to more productive quick yielding investments,
particularly those which generate increased export earnings. The
effects of these new policies can already be seen, particularly in the
rural sector which will for the foreseeable future remain the mainstay
of the country' s economy. Policies and prograns designed tc raise
agricultural production and provide the necessary institutional support
are being developed and implemented.
Rural Development
8.        To establish a viable framework under wthich essential serv:ices
can be economically delivered to a scattered rural qopulation an-d con-
comitantly to reflect Tanzania's socialist ideals and organization in the
countryside, the Government is promoting and supporting the establishment
of cooperative or l'ujamaa" villages.  In such villages most or all of the
land is communally owned and production is organized on a communal basis.
Only the very basic infrastructural needs are provided by the Government5
and self-help and local initiative are the keys to the produiction success
of these cooperatives.  Normally these villages have to funct on success-
fully for some years before they become eligible for registration as
cooperative societies and consequently for credit. About 15 percent of
the rural- population is now concentrated in some 4,500 ujamaa villages,
but only about 200 of these have so far qualified for registration as
creditworthy cooperatives.
9.        The response to the ujamaa movement has not been wuiform
throughout the country; progress has been particcularly slow in areas
where small farmers are already engaged in the production of well
established cash crops and hence often do not feel the necessity to
change to a: new and untried way of life. W4hile the Government is
anxious to speed up the formation of ujamaa villages, it recognizes
that the movement will gain ground and be successful only if the
principle of voluntary association is preserved. Pie process oi bring-
ing the bulk of Tanzania's rural population into ujamaa villages will
take a long time, and it is still to early to assess the full signi-
ficance of the movement for agricultural production.   However, there are
indications that the program could in due course have a significant,
favorable impact on the rural sector.
10.       To make Government more responsive to the needs of rural
development and better able to respond to local initiative, greater power



and responsibility for the formulation and execution of development
projects was recently given to regional and district authorities.   The
Goverament expects that this important decentralization of its adminis-
tra2ive structure will increase the country's absorotive canpacity and
facilitate the shift in emphasis of public sector investment from social
and economic infrastructure to agriculture and rural develon)ment in
szeneral.  it is too early to assess the imoact of decentralization, since
-n the early stages d.ifficultic. ini deter-odnin-,. the miss desira.ble
distribution of authority between the central Government and -the regions
are bounl tc arise and the transfer of hi-h rank-incy officials from
Dar es Saiaaa to tle regions is inevitably at. the expense of the smooth
fLuncti oninln  of the central 0overnment.  In tnie J.o'ner term, however,
considerable imrorovements in project ipentftfacoton, _reparation and
i-mnlementation, should be possible as a resu't of this new structure.
LthlerJSec-'tCrs
11.      l.hi'_. the rural. anriculi to.ral. sector ha-,.s to -lay a major r-le
i.n Tenz anJi2.'s cevelopmenlt, other sectors offer ;oossibilities for a
broadenin- and diversification of the economic b3se.   This is desoite
a nuiTTher of considerable disadvantages.  Industrial growth, which was
until recently ra-_id, has slowed as the rmiost obvious .ossibilities for
import substitutions are now nearing: their limits.  The snall domestic
market severely liCmits tne scope  for furthler industrial ex=ansionr and
the East Afric,-an -oircmi  Market has not yet realized .its -octential.
P'recuent duplicction of new indastrial ventures in Past hfrica continues,
axd trade and curroncy rest:rictions between the three membor ccuntries
arre tending to increase rather thlan decline.  In light o0 these limiting
factors, the Tanzanian Gove.rnment is placinq increasinrg emphasis on
oromoting smriall industries catering to the needs of the rural popula-
tion and on processin, crops, such as cashew nuts, for export.   The
contribution of the transport sector to the economy is expected to
increase si-ni icantly with tne completion of the railway to Zambia and
the comriementin BEarLk fintanced exp-ansion of Dar es SalaatT harbor.
.coniornc activity along the railw-ay line in both countries is also
e-cected to surge ahead fo1LoT.,i nJ its comnpleti.on.  Tourisnr is another
sector with considerable potential, anld the Govennment is presently
considerin- a ten-year plan for the development of this impcrts.nt
scurce of foreman exchange earnings.
Consultative Grou,;
1Ž.       A m,eetira cn Tanzania of the Consultative hrouu for L.st Africa
wtas held in Paris from Janualy 16-17, 1973.  The re12tively slow growth
cf a.gricultlralL production and thne increased importation cof capital goods
had caused severe pressure on resources, but temporary investn.ent cutbacks
..nd credclt restrictions hadc successfully overcome the resultin- financial
-:ressurcu. The 'Grcun noted with satisfaction the Governpieit- -)o2icf of



pursuing its development goals under conditions ol financial stability
and its intention to maintain or increase domestic savings which are
already high in comparison with many developing countries. The Group
recognized that external aid inflows would have to increase substantially,
and that most if not all capital assistance would have to be made avail-
able on soft terms in order to avoid an excessive debt servicing burden
in the future.
Expropriations
13.       In pursuit of its development and social Policies, Tanzania
has nationalized a number of enterprises, many of them foreign owvned,
over the past six years.  Between February 1967 and April 1971 banks,
insurance companies, sisal estates and industrial companies were
taken over by the state and satisfactory compensation arrangements have
been made or are expected to be concluded shortly with the former
owiners. In April 1971 legislation (The Acquisition of Buildings Act)
was enacted empowering the President on behalf of the state to acquire
any rental or commiercial property, the construction cost of which was
over 100,000 Tanzanian shillings ($4),000). About three thousand
7ronerties were acquired under the Act.  The Act -rovides for compensa-
tion and contains a formula which in geeneral terms states that compensation
will be limited to the cost of construction of the building less ten
percent for each year the building has been owned. The Act, however,
provides for an Appeals Tribunal to which an owner of exoropriated
property may appeal in respect of the acquisition of his building or
the amount of compensation. The Tribunal is authorized to restore
proDerty to previous owners.   Moreover, the President has power under
the Act to return the building or to pay compensation above that orovided
fcr under the formula in the Act, and the Tribunal may make recommenda
tions to the President on such additional compensation. A comaittee has
also been established outside the Act to return Droperties to owners
who can prove that they have suffered hardshlp as a result of the
acquisition. Some five hundred and sixty claims and appeals have
been made and are being dealt with in the order they were lodged;
less than ten percent of these are on behalf of foreign owners. To
date about two-thirds of the total have been dealt with under the
various review procedures; about ten foreign cases have been settled
so far, all in favor of the claimant. There remain about forty
foreign cases at various stages of the review procedure, none of
thein having yet exhausted the local remedies available.



-6-
PARr II - BANK GROUP LENDING TO TANZANIA
14.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962. Beginning with
an IDA credit for education in 1963) it has so far received twelve
credits and three Bank loans amounting to $130.5 million. In addition,
Tanzania has been a beneficiary of 8 loans, totalling $197.3 million
which have been extended for the development of common services operated
on a regional basis by Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda through their association
in the East African Community. The only IFC investments in Tanzania
to date, totalling $h.4 million, were made in the Kilombero Sugar Company
in 1960 and 196h. This company encountered financial difficulties,
and in 1969 IFC and other investors sold their interest in the company
to the Government. Anlex II contains summary statements of Bank Loans,
IDA Credits and IFC investmenats inr Tanzania and the East African Com-
munity organizations as of February 1973 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
15.       Our lending program, reflecting the emphasis the Tanzanian
Government attaches to agricultural development is increasingly focusing
on directly productive activities in the rural sector. Up to the
end of FY 72 ten out of fourteen loans and credits had been made for
infrastructure.  All but one of the loans to the East African Community
Organizations, of which Tanzania is a beneficiary, have been extended
for improvements in transportation and communications. However, the
approval by the Executive Directors of the Flue-Cured Tobacco Project
Credit No. 217 TA) in October 1970 opened a new phase in our lending.
The Smallholder Tea Development Project (Credit No. 287 TA) was approved
in March 1972 and the project presently under consideration constitutes
a major development effort of the livestock sector.  A project to
support the expansion of Navy Bean production and processing is being
examined and may be presented for consideration by the Executive Directors
later this year, and a project for expanding cotton production was appraised
in February.
16.       Our Permanent Mission in East Africa, which was involved in
the preparation of three of the above projects, is currently assisting
Tanzania in preparing a regional rural development project and a cashew
nut development project. Our capability to provide such assistance
has proved to be particularly valuable in a country where project
preparation capacity is and for some time will be limited. Tanzania is
developing an institutional structure, stressing greater regionalization
and development of ujamaa villages, designed to promote and respond to
development initiatives. These institutions are still in their formative
stages, and related organizational and staffing difficulties have
sometimes resulted in the project delays referred to in Annex II. Bank
Group projects supporting these institutions have reinforced their
viability at an early stage.



17.       In addition to our Tanzanian projects, we plan to continue
our support of East African Community projects. A loan of $26.5 million
to the East African Harbours Corporation was approved by the Executive
Directors on November 21, 1972. A loan of $32.5 million to the East
African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation has been negotiated.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General Background
18.       Agriculture and related activities still constitute the largest
single sector in the Tanzanian economy. Roughly 40 per cent of G.D.P.
is derived from the sector of which 50 per cent constitutes subsistence
production; agricultural exports, which account for 80 per cent of
total exports, include mainly sisal, cotton, cashew and coffee. About
94 per cent of the population live in rural areas, usually in small
isolated communities, and 90 per cent of the economically active people
are engaged in agriculture.
19.       Most production is from traditional smallholdings, cultivated
by hand and using family labor. Large scale agriculture is represented
by private estates, engaged in sisal, coffee, tea and wheat production
and state farms, mainly in wheat, rice, sisal and livestock. Estate
production has diminished in importance particularly as sisal has
declined, and the state farm program remains small. Tanzania's national
herd is grazed extensively over the 40 per cent of the country which is
free from tsetse fly infestation. It is largely managed along traditional
lines. There is limited use of oxen for cultivation, mainly in the
western cotton areas. Tanzania is largely self-sufficient in staples,
but about 10 per cent of total imports in 1971 were foods among which
dairy products, wheat and maize were major items.
Agricultural Development Strategy
20.       The Government recognizes that agriculture will continue to
be the main source of employment for a long time and has been trying to
devise a strategy which will bring about some improvement in the living
oonditions of tle agricultural population. The policy for agricultural
and rural development which has emerged from these deliberations has
been adopted as a central part of Tanzania's Second Five-Year Plan.
21.       The major aim of the Plan is to make significant progress
towards socialist organization of rural activity, based on ujamaa co-
operatives. Where possible, these programs are based on smallholder activity
in order to maximize their employment impact.   State Farms fill a need
for larger scale production units, but the approach to mechanization



is to be cautious and in general based on proven viability. A similar
caution is expressed towards irrigation development. Agricultural
production is to be increased within a framework of crop priorities
based on production possibilities, market prospects, and a desire for
increased self-sufficiency. High priority is given to raising nutritional
standards in the country, and to the expansion of selected export crops
including flue-cured tobacco and tea,both of which are being assisted
by IDA credits. A vigorous policy for the development of vertically
integrated single crop authorities dealing with all aspects of production,
processing and markets is foreseen, and cooperatives are to play a central
role.
22.       Another major commodity with good prospects for expansion is
cotton. Tanzania's mediumi staple cotton has a steady demand inter-
nationally and the Second Plan aims for an expansion in cotton output
from 0OO,000 bales in 1969 to aroand 700,000 bales in 1975. Several
other commodities also have scope for expansion.  These include dairying,
and horticultural produce, for which Tanzania is still dependent on
imports, cashew nuts, which is already a valuable export earner, sugar, pyrethrum,
oilseeds and forestry proclucts. Projects designed to develop all these
commodities are in various stages of identification and preparation,
some of which are expected to be suitable for Bank Group financing.
23.       Although there have beer one or two exceptions, progress in
developing single specialized crop development programs has been encouraging,
but typically they have involved relatively high cost per farmer and have
affected only a small proportion of the rural population, even when
developed along labor intensive lines. Tanzania has recognized these
shortcomings and is attempting to design and plan broader based rural
development projects. Our Permanent Mission in East Africa has been
assisting the Government in this effort and is helping to design and
prepare such a project in the Kigoma area of Western Tanzania. This
region has ccnsiderable potential but has so far been bypassed by more
traditional development programs.
Agricultural Credit
24.       Virtually all credit funds for the development of the agricultural
sector in Tanzania are channelled through the Tanzania Rural Development
Bank (TRDB). This institution, which was created in 1971, took over the
assets and liabilities, as well as operations, of the National Development
Credit Agency. The Association has been associated with the TRDB from
the beginning. The proceeds of two IDA credits are onlent through the
Bank and much of the credit presently under consideration would be chan-
nelled through the institution. Since it is TRDB's policy to lend at
rates that reflect the commercial cost of capital, the interest rates
charged on long- and short-term loans are presently about &i percent.



-9-
TbRDB1s   organization         and policies are generally considered sound;
however, in recent months there have been rapid increases in the proportion
of overdue debt uncovered by TRDB's bad debt reserve. We have discussed
this problem in detail with both TRDB and the Government, and TRDB is
currently drawing up a plan and has begun to implement measures designed
to rectify this situation.
The Livestock Sub-Sector
25.       With about thirteen million cattle and seven million sheep
and goats, Tanzania livestock population is the second largest in Africa.
In some areas cattle are kept as auxiliary activities to growing cotton
and maize whereas in others, notably amongst the Gogo and Masai tribes,
livestock is the principal source of income. Animal husbandry in Tanzania
displays all1 the attributes of traditional peasant agriculture. Cattle
are individually owned but grazed on communal land which is often
over-grazed, productivity is low, tick-borne diseases cause considerable
losses, foot and mouth disease is endemic, under-productive stock are
not rigorously culled and cattle are often regarded as a stock of
wealth and prestige rather than inccme. Much of the national herd
is nomadic or semi-nomadic and much of the suitable livestock land is
under-utilized due to lack of water or presence of tsetse fly, or both.
Development Strategy
26.       The Government's strategy for the livestock sector, on which
this project is based, is well formulated and sound. It recognizes the need
to increase exports, so as to ease the balance of payments constraint
under which Tanzania operates, while not ignoring the need to raise the
incomes of traditional livestock owners, who both in Tanzania and other
countries have all too often been bypassed by more conventional livestock
development programs. In order to distribute the employment and income
effects of the new technology more equitably, the Government has
developed a plan for ujamaa cooperative ranching. However, the organization
of such a program will inevitably take time and the Government intends
to develop and operate state owned ranches, which have already proved
their viability in Tanzania, as well as ujamaa cooperative enterprises.
The Government also plans to raise incomes of livestock owners in the
traditional sector by instituting programs designed to improve animal
health, livestock marketing and processing. The programs, together
with the related institutional structures, aimed at achieving these
objectives are briefly summarized below.
Production
27.       The National Agricultural Company Limited (NACO), a fully
owned subsidiary of the National Agricultural and Food Corporation
(NAFCO) is the parastatal company responsible for large scale beef



-  -?`
production. The company pres!.:ntly :-Ž9-ratez t4welve ranch enterprises,
five of which have been assisted uL-dor the First Beef Ranching Project
(Credit No. 132 TA). The performance of HACO both under and outside
the First Project has generall-y beEn .iatistiactory.  Delays have, however,
occurred in preparing ful-y amthtei i ac-couunts for the company. Although
NACO's Chief Development. Offi'cer is an- exoatriate, most ranch managers
are Tanzanians. High level --. tchniical assistarnce is expected to continue
to be necessary during thbe projIect. pericd, but suitably qualified and
experienced Tanzanian staff S'OUsct be azvai. alb e by its termination.
28.       Until naow ucjamaa cor)oeprabives iparagraphs 8 - 9 above) have
been almost entirely associLated with crop producticn. In an attempt
to bring the benefits of modeni ra'nching inethods to the traditional
producer and to create more smaitacie zncome distribution and employment
the GoverrLment has now designed a scheme to adapt ranching along ujamaa
lines. Each participant would Cont"rz;zcate about five to eight heads of
cattle to the common herd. The ujamaie. w,ould be managed in a similar way
to other such cooperatives and( the banefits associated with the enterprise
would be distributed to tha members. T1"he Govenament would make adequate
extension services available to assist each ujaman committee in applying
the new technology. Initially it i.s intended to develop a limited
number of such ranches in Sukuanluad in Western Tanzania, Dodoma in
Central Tanzania and Arunhlca Distr:iJt  in Northern Tanzania. Although the
program must of its very nature be experime-atal, it appears sound and
well adapted to TanzanLan social conditiocns.
Marketing
29.       The marketing systm in Tanzuani.a is poorly developed and
organized. About 1'20 District 4Development Councils are licensed to
operate small primary marktets and the r 1inistry of Agriculture is directly
responsible for the operation of five secondary markets. In addition,
a number of private traders are also liicensed to buy and sell cattle.
Virtually, none of the existing markets have proper facilities such
as holding pens, auction rings and weighing scales and in many areas
there are no such facilities at a2l. In addition, the lack of proper
watering, stockholding and grazinig facilities on stock routes and holding
grounds result in costly weight losses. In order to rationalize and
improve the marketing system, the Govermnent is establishing the Tanzania
Livestock Marketing Companr as a subsidiary of the National Agriculture
and Food Corporation (NAFCO) to develop and operate all markets, stock
routes and holding grounds.
Processing
30.       At present only one mleat processing plant, Tanganyika Meat
Packers Limited (TPL), 'located in Dar es Salaam, exists in Tanzania.
This factory;whizh is Jointly owred by NAFCO and an international meat



packing company, needs renovation if it is to continue to meet veterinary
and sanitary standards of the principal importing countries. However,
new plants are needed to provide slaughtering facilities in the main cat-tle
producing areas both to reduce considerable weight losses in transport
and increase offtake from the traditional sector.  The Government
is setting up the Tanzania Meat Processing Company, as a subsidiary of
NAFCO, to own and operate the new plants and take over NAFCO's share in
TPL.
Technical Services
31.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives has overall
responsibility for the livestock sector and 1,150 extension workers
are actively engaged in this work. Tanzanians have graduated and are
currently studying for degrees in Agriculture and Veterinary Science
at the Universities of Dar es Salaam, Makerere, Nairobi and elsewhere.
In addition, diplomas and courses in Agriculture, Veterinary Science
and Ranch Management are also provided at various training institutes in
Tanzania, some of which have been assisted under the First Livestock
Project (Credit No. 132 TA). In order to place more emphasis on produc-
tion, the Ministry plans to strengthen its extension services, training
and research facilities.
32.       As a result of vigorous Government vaccination programs,
rinderpest and contagious bovine pleuropneumonia have been virtually
eliminated. Tick-borne disease continues to cause serious losses in
the traditional sector but the Government is making progress in c.on-
structing and operating dips free of charge for the traditional producer.
The Government, with assistance from FAO, is beginning to formulate
a foot and mouth disease (FMD) control program. Research facilities
are to be established and further work to determine economic returns
that might accure from FMD control is contemplated.  The Tsetse Control
Unit of the Ministry of Agriculture, assisted by USAID, is responsible
for tsetse fly eradication and control.
Price Policy
33.       The Government has controlled the retail price of beef since
1967. However, the controlled price was kept too low and severe distor-
tion in the market occurred. Supply was depressed, smuggling to
neighboring countries was common and meat was diverted from the lucrative
export market to satisfy the inflated domestic demand. In recognition of
this distorted market situation the Government raised producer prices
by an average of 40 percent in 1972. To avoid substantial
losses in export earnings, to maintain adequate incentives for
producers and to ensure the financial viability of the various
enterprises   in   the  livestock   sector,   the  Government



irtends to review the controlled price level regularly. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations tShat the Borrower would consult with
the Association in making such Drice reviews. Projects for "cheaper"
beef substitutes, e.g., poultry and fisheries are in various stages of
identification and preparation and when they come into fruition it is
expected that the Government will be able to relax the degree of control
it presently exerts on beef prices.
PARr IV - TlE PROJECT
34.       An appraisal report entitled "Second Livestock Development
Project Tanzania" is being, circulated separately. A Credit and Project
Summary are provided as Anmex III to this report.
35.       The project was appraised in the field in March 1972. Negotia-
tions for the proposed crtedit were held in Washington in February 1973.
The Tanzanian delegation wias headed by Mr. Ernest Mulokozi, Principal
Secretary, Prime Minister's Office.
36.       The project, which forms the focus of Tanzania's livestock
development program for the next five years is fully in accordance with
the Government's policies for this sector described in paragraph 26 above.
It is a broadly based integrated livestock development program designed
to support all aspects of beef production, marketing and processing and
elements specifically designed to benefit the traditional small livestock
owner have been included.  It ccmprises:
(a) development, of eleven National Agricultural Company Ltd.
ranches, four District Development Corporation ranches,
and up to 22 ujamaa cooperative ranches;
(b)  development of three large cattle markets, about 10
medium-size markets, and about 20 small markets and the
improvement of about 104 existing small markets;
(c) development of about 2,300 km of new stock routes and
improvement of about 2,200 km of existing stock routes,
es-tablishment of four new holding grounds and improvement
of around 23 existing ones;
(d)  improvement and expansion of one meat processing plant
and the ccnstriuction of two new ones; and
(e) provision of technical services, training and project
preparation.



-13-
Costs
37.       The total cost of the project net of taxes is estimated at
US $24.7 million. The proposed IDA credit of $18.5 million would
finance the total estimated foreign exchange component of IJS $11.3
,millioni (46 per cent of total project costs) as well as US $7.2 million
equivalent of local costs. The high proportion of local currency
expenditure, which is normal for livestock projects in East Africa, is
chiefly accounted for by the prov?sion of $7.6 million equivalent for
locally procured cattle.
Organization and Execution
38.       The project would support a broad variety of activities in
the livestock sector which are geographically dispersed. It would be
implemented through the various entities described in paragraphs 27
to 32 above. NACO would establish eight new ranches averaging 34,000
hectares in area and further develop three. One of these ranches has
been operated by the Government and it would be a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed credit that it had been transferred to NACO. Four District
Development Corporations would develop ranches similar to those proposed
fcr NACO and up to 22 ujamaa cooperative committees would be responsible
for the development of ranches on a total of about 100,000 hectares.
The Tanzania Livestock Marketing Company would be responsible for
developing the markets and stock routes. The Tanzania Meat Processing
Company would oversee the improvements at the Dar es Salaam factory and
would construct, own and operate the two new factories. It is expected
that TMPC would enter into a management contract with an international
meat processing company for the operation of these two factories. It
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit that both
these companies had been established and that the stock routes presently
with tle Ministry of Agriculture had been transferred to the new marketing
company. The Tsetse Control Unit of the Ministry of Agriculture would
carry out heavy development work on ranches, stock routes and holding
grounds.
39.       In order to ensure proper coordination between the various
project entities, a policy committee chaired by the Principal Secretary
of the Ministry of Agriculture and consisting of representatives of all
the institutions concerned would be formed. A project unit headed by a
Project Manager would be responsible for day-to-day operaticns. The
unit would monitor and coordinate all project activities, approve all
ranch development plans, and generally advise and assist a11 project
entities, particularly the DDC's and the ujamaa cooperatives.



Onlending
40.       With the exceptiotn of finance for technical services and equipment
for -the Tsetse Control Unit, all credit funds would be onlent to the project
beneficiaries via the Tanzania Rural Developmnent Bank. The Government would
bear the exchange risk.  The Governiren t would onlend these funds to TRDB
for 20 years including a grbace period of five years at an interest rate
of 4 percent per annum. TRDB would onlend these funds at 8l« percent per
annwn. Loan terms would not exceed twelve years and grace periods of
six years for ranch developm9nt- ancd three years for livestock marketing
and processing would be allowee. TRDBDs spread is adequate; the institu-
tion can expect a considerable income from its participation in the
project which will ir. turn be available fol rillending to priority projects
in the rural sector.  It would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed u±l6it that a plan to collect T.`131s overdues, referred to in
paragraph 24 above, had been submit-ted to thle Association.
Technical Services
h1.       All the various entities cencerned with the project are considered
to be generally sound and well-conceived. However, the project will
greatly expand their responsibilities and in the early stages it is con-
sidered necessary that technical support be provided.  The proposed
credit therefore includes funads for such assistance to the project manage-
ment unit, the National Agricultu)ral Company, the Tanzania Meat Processing
Company, the Tanzania Livestock Marketing Comparny and the Tanzania Rural
Development Bank. The responsibilities of these technical pErsonrel
would include the improvemen-t and initiation of training programs within
the various project institutions; overseas training would also be provided.
Finance would also be provided for consultants to assist the Ministry
of Agriculture's planning unLt in formulating programs for the next
phlase of livestock development in Tanzania.  A foot and mouth disease-typing
laboratory would also be provided (paragraph 32 above).  It would be a
condltion of effectiveness of the proposed credit that the Government had
established the project management nit, employed a suitably experienced
project manager and assistant project manager and submitted a staffing
plan to the Association giving detailed job descriptions and proposed
timing of recruitment for the various technical assistance posts.
Procurement
42.       Contracts for the procurement of all heavy equipment and machinery
for land clearing, ranch preparation ancd development, and machinery and
equipment required for the improvement and expansion of the TPL plant total-
ling $3.6 million, would be lea after international competitive bidding in accordance



-15-
with Bank/IDA procurement guidelines. Civil works for the Tanzania
Packers, Ltd. (TPL) plant totalling $500,000 would be let after local
competitive bidding under procedures consistent with IDA guidelines.
The civil works improvements are expected to be of a piece meal variety
as timing of the work must be such as to coincide with the arrival of
the machinery and operations must be phased so as to interfere with
production as little as possible; as such it would not attract interna-
tional bidders. The two new meat processing plants totalling about
US$4.1 million would be constructed under turnkey contracts let after
international bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. Turnkey
contracts are considered advantageous as several types of equipment
are involved, and it is considered essential that one firm take overall
responsibility to achieve compatibility and synchronization of all items
of equipment. Ranch and other development work, such as constructing
firebreaks, roads and water dams would be carried out by the Tsetse
Control Unit of the Ministry of Agriculture. International bidding is
not considered appropriate for these items since they are widely dis-
persed and hence would not be attractive to international bidders.
Moreover, it is essential to synchronize these development operations
with tsetse fly control and survey work. It is expected that most
livestock totalling US$7.6 million would be procured locally. In order
to avoid unnecessary delays and complications miscellaneous items, such
as medicines and small equipment not suitable for bulk procurement, would
be purchased through existing commercial channels in cases where indivi-
dual contracts were less than US$30,000. Local manufacturers would be
allowed a preferential margin of 15 percent or the existing rate of import
duties, whichever is the lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing imports.
Disbursement
43.       A schedule of estimated disbursements is included in Annex III.
It is proposed that $50,000 be disbursed to cover retroactively the
costs of consultants used to prepare this project. Although NACO per-
formance under the first project has been generally satisfactory,
it has been late in submitting fully audited accounts to the Association.
It would therefore be a condition of disbursement of credit funds to
NAC0 that a fully audited balance sheet and accounts for 1972 had been
received by the Association.
Benefits
4         At full maturity, expected to be in 1985, the incremental
annual beef production from the project is estimated to be about 21,000
tons representing a 46 percent increase over 1972 levels of commercial
production. About half the incremental production would be attributable
to project ranches and the other half to the rationalization of marketing
and cattle movement; no difficulties are expected in marketing the increased



-16-
cuttut of beef which has favorable demand prospects.    Incremental annual
export earnings due to the project are expected to amount to US$6 million.
Te overall economic rate of return for the proje:ct is estimated at 35
percent. No adverse ecological effects are expected.
45.       In addition to increased and diversified exports, more productive
self-employment orwortunities for 700 families on ujamaa ranches and
2,500 additional jobs on NACO ranches would be created.   The increased
incomes in the traditional-lsector as a result of an improved marketing
network are expected to be substantial.
46.       The project is not without risks.   While the potential for
expanding the livestock sector is great, problems of implementation
which may arise owing to shortages of managerial and technical expertise
will need close attention. The livestock marketing and meat processing
companies will be newly established, without mrich experience in their
respective fields and they can be expected to experience growing pains.
Although the ujamaa basis for ranch organization may be appropriate
to Tanzanian social conditions, it is being applied to cattle ranching
for virtually the first time and its success depends on continuing
provision of managerial and technical expertise over a long period.
PART V - LEGAl, INSTRUNENTS AND AUTHORITY
h7.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United
Republic of Tanzania and the Association, the draft Project Agreement
between the Association and the Tanzania Rural Development Bank, the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the
Articles of Agreement and the text of a resolution approving the proposed
credit are being distributed to the Ex.ecutive Directors separately.  The
draft agreements conform to the normal pattern for livestock and agri-
cultural credit projects.
48.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would conply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECONMENDATION
49.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
April 10,1973



ANNEX I                  Page 1 of 2 pages
COUNTRY DATA - TANZANIA*
AREA        2              POPULATION                                                 DENSITY
937,062   kf-              13.6 million (mid-1972)                                     15   per k 2/
Rate of Growth: 2.7    (from '66 to'75  )                   ..  per k /of arable land
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS (1967)                                   HEALTH (1970)
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)   47                                   Population per physician      27,000
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)   20                                   Population per hospital bed      790
Infant Mortality (per 1,000 live births) 165
INCOME DISTRIBUTION                                                 DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
7/ of national income, lowest quintile    *-                        % owned by top 10% of owners (All land owned by
highest quintile    *-                        % owned by smallest 10% of owners      the State)
ACCESS TO PIPED WATER (1970)                                        ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (1970)
% of population - urban     80                                      % of population - urban   2.3
- rural    10                                                       - rural
NUTRITION (1970)                                                    EDUCATION   (1970)
Calorie intake as % of requirements   69                            Adult literacy rate 7%
Per capita protein intake         43 grams per day                  Primary school enrollment 7. 37
1/
GNP PER CAPITA in 197 1 I US $ 100
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1971                                      ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant prices)
US $ Mln.       %                       1960-65           1965-70            1971
GNP at Market Prices          1,332        100 0                      5.0                4.5               4-5
Gross Domestic Investment       370         27.5                      *-                14.3              27.5
Gross National Saving           286         21.5                                         5.7              10.8
Current Account Balance        - 90         - 6.7
Exports of Goods, NFS           338         25.4                                         7.4               6.4
Imports of Goods, NFS           433         32.5                      ..                 9.4              20.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added                        Labor Force-                   V. A. Per Worker
US $ Mln.     7                      Mln.        7                   US $         %
Agriculture                    521       39                     5.3        91                     98         43
Industry                      159        12                     0.1         2                   1590        694
Services                      651        49                     0.3         3                   2170        948
Unallocated                                .                    0.1         4
Total/Average           1331       1oo.0                   5.8       100.0                  229        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                          Central Government
(.     Mln.)        % of GDP                 ( Shs   Mln.)       % of GDP
197          197      196 -7                  1971/72     1971    1965-70
Current Receipts                   (No information available but totals              1913       20        16
Current Expenditure                 for all items only slightly higher than          1824       19        16
Current Surplus                     for Central Government)                            89        1
Capital Expenditures                                                                 1440       15         7
External Assistance (net)                                                             839        9         3
1/ The Per Capita GNP estimate is at 1970 market prices, calculated by the same conversion
technique as the 1972 World Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are
at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
2/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
* All information except for Population and         not available
Money Supply refer to Tanzania mainland       . not applicable
only.



ANNEX I                     Page 2 of 2 pages
COUNTRY DATA - TANZANIA
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                       1965         1969        1970         1971         1971        1972
(Million Shs  outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                         ..          2194        2620         3174
Bank Credit to Public Sector                  ..
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 ..           ..
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP             ..           26%         29%          33%
General Price Index (1963 = 100)              ..         130          134          138                      150
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                           ..           1.6          2.7          3.3                      8.7
Bank credit to Public Sector
Bank credit to Private Sector
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1969-71)
1969     1970      1971                                                US $ Mln     7,
(Millions US $)                        coffee                          37      16
cotton                          33      14
Exports of Goods, NFS           285       318      338                    sisal                           22       9
Imports of Goods, NFS           277       361      433                    diamonds                        26      11
Resource Gap (deficit =-)       +3                 _t9                    cashew                          17       7
Interest Payments (net)         - 3       - 3      - 2                All other commodities              103     _
Workers' Remittances                                                       Total                         237     lOQ,O
Other Factor Payments (net)
Net Transfers                   + 9       +12      + 7              EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 19712/
Balance on Current Account      +14       -3L      -90
US $ Mln
Direct Foreign Investment         3       - 1        1
Net MLT Borrowing                28        85      116                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              314
Disbursements                 34        93      142                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Amortization                   6         8       26                Total outstanding & Disbursed              31T
Subtotal                      31                                                             12 117  1/2/
Capital Grants                   ..        ..       ..              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1971- -
Other Capital (net)              ..        ..      -18                                                          8%
Other items n.e.i               -20      -51       -j
Increase in Reserves (+)        + 3       -15      - 5                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             8%
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Gross Reserves (end year)        80        65       60                Total outstanding & Disbursed
Net Reserves    (end year)       74        55       42
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                IBRD/IDA LENDING,  February 1973 (Million US       3/
Through   - 1971                                                                                      IBRD        IDA
US $ 1.00 = Sbh 7.14                                                                                   B
1.00 = US $ 0.114                                          Outstanding & Disbursed               25         50
Undisbursed                           17          32
Since  -    1971                                                Outstanding incl. Undisbursed         42          72
US $ 1. 00= Sh 7.14
1.00 = US $ 0.14
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.         3/  Excluding IBRD lending to
East African Community.
2_/  Including Tanzania's notional one-third share in the external
debt of the East African Community.
not available
not applicable                     Eastern Africa Region CP - 1D
March 14, 1973



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
A.  STATENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANLI
AS O' FEBRUARY 28, 1973 1/
(U 3$ million)
imount less cancellations
NO.      YEAR     BORROWER         PUP.POSE      BAANK     IDA  UNDISBURSED
45 TA    1963     Tanzania     Education           -       L.6
62 TA    196.     Tanzania     Roads               -      14.0
80 TA    1'966    Tanzania     Agricultural
Credit           -       5.        -
518 TA    1967     TANESCO      Power              5.2       -
I .S TA   196l8    Tanzania     Supplementary
Roads            -       3.C        .0
i32 T1>   1968     Tanz-rania   Ranch Development -         1.        .2
:114i2 'L'A  1969  Tanzani..    Roads               -      15.5
586 TA    1969     Tanzania     hoads              7.0       -       3.
169 'TA   1969     Tanzania     Education           -       5.0      3.1
217 '.-A  1970     Tanzania     Tobacco             -       9.0      8.5
715 TA    1970     TANESCO      Power             3(.0       -      14-3
232 TA    1971     Tanzania     Educati.on          -       3.3      3.3
265 TA    1972     Tanzania     Roads               -       6.5      6.1
287 TA    1972     Tanzania     Smallhoider Tea     -      10.8     10.1
Total                                  42.2     78.0 2/
of which has been repaid              .4
Trotal now outstanding                   .8
Amount sold:                  1
of wnich has been repaid   .1
Total now held by Bank and IDA         41.8     78.0
Total undisbursed                      17.3     32.0     49.3
1/ A further credit of $10.3 to support.a Fourth Education Project was
apprcved by, the Executive Directors on 1'larch 27, 1973.
2/ Exclusive of Exchange Adjustment.



AXNEX 1L
Page 2 of 6
;'. SUT1,1ARY SPATElAENT OF RANK LOANS FOR CO-t4ON SEIOVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS A'? FEBRUARY 28, 1973
(U.S.$ it'llilon)
Amount less cancellations
NC;.      YEAR    BORROWER         PURPOSE           BANK     UNDISBURSED
110 -LA    1955     EARC  1/    Railways              24.0
)423 ESA   1966     EARC  2/    Railways              32.h
1966     EAHC  2/    Harbors                5.6
)13 EA     1967     EAPTC 2/    Telecommunications    13.0'          .1
638 EA     1969     EAHC         Harbors              35.0         19.0
674 EA     1?j70    LARC        Railways              42.          35.3
675 EA     1970     aLAPTC      Telecon-uniinications  iO.i,        6.1
84L3 LA    1972     EADB        Development Finance    8.0          8.0
865 EA     1972     EAHC        Harbors               26.5 3/1     26.5
Total                                    197-3
of which has beien reraid                22.4
'Potal now outstanding                   174.9
Amount sold:                 2i4.4
of which has been repaid  21.3           3.1
lotal now held by Bank                   171.8
Total undisbursed                                       95.(0
-/ Loan made originally to last African High Commission and guaranteed
by the United Kingdom
LI Loan made originally to East African Comaon Services Authority
3/ Niot effective



AMJEX IT
Page 3 of 6
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION   1/
There are currently nine projects Luder execution.
AGRICULTUPE SECTOR
Credit No. 132-TA - Beef Ranching Development Project:  41.3 Mvillion
Credit of October 31, 1968; Closing Date December 31, 1973
Initial management difficulties were overcome by reihcing
maragers with more experienced staff.  Drought conditions brought high
cattle mortality on one ranch. A problem of low fixed meat prices was
alleviated by a substantial increase in 1972.  The project is expected
to be fully disbursed by the scheduled closing date (December 1973).
This project has demonstrated the feasibility of establishing an
efficient beef industry in Tanzania.
Credit No. 2i7-TA - Tobacco Project:  $9 IMllion Credit of October 9,
1970; Closing Date September 30, 1976
Implementation of this project is running behind schedule
because of slow farmer recuitment due to lack of clear directives by
the Government to regional officials regarding   resettlement policy.
However, follow-ng Central Government intervention farmer recruitmnent
has shown signs of improvemen-t and the project should now gain in-
creasing momentum. An IDA    supervision mission which visited Tanzania
in October 1972 reviewed the project and accepted adjustm-ents to the
design of village water systems and changes in the curing and grading
facilities in the new villages. The project is being kept under very
close supervision.
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Credit No. 287-TA - Smallho:Lder Tea Project: $10.8 Million Credit of
March 3, 1972; Closing Date December 31, 1976
Tnis project becane effective in July 26, 1972 and only $700,000
have so far been disbursed from the credit account. Because of delay
in the effectiveness of the credit, the project has commenced about six
months behind schedule.
On both the Tobacco and Tea credits, a lack of understanding of
IDA procurement procedures by -tne Project Authorities has been the cause
of considerable delay. This matter was discussed recently with the Govern-
ment and it is proposed to send arI 1Dk minssion to Tanzania in the near
future to hold a seminar on procurement procedures for the benefit of
concerned staff.
POWER SECTfOR
Loan No. 715-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric P-rojectv $30 Million Loan of
December 'Lh, 1970; Closing Date Julle 30, 1976
This project has encountered major cost overruns.  The latest
cost estimates exceed the original (US$59 million) by about one third.
The two main factors responsible for the overrLns were:  (i) the unex-
pectedly high cost escalations 1nside and outside Tanzania since appraisal
in April 1970 and (ii) the iunexpected bad rock conditions encountered
during excavation of the underground facilities which make up the major
part of the main civil engineering works. CIDA of Canada has provided
Canadian $13 million to cover the major portion of the overruns and dis-
cussions are currently taking place between the Bank, the Government and
other bilateral donors with a view to covering the residual.  However, in
spite of these cost overruns the project still remains the most attractive
alternative to other possibLe development in the power sector at this time.
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit Nos. 48-TA/li5-TA - Eirst Highway Project:  $14 Million Credit of
February 5, 1964 and Supplementary Credit of $3 Million of March 21, 1968;
Original Closing Date December 31, 1971; Revised Closing Date June 30, 1973
Engineering and construction work on this project has been
completed, but arbitration proceedings in respect of a contractor's
claim ended only in June 1972. Hlowever the Government has now accepted
the arbitration award and made payment to the contractor.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan No. 586-TA and Credit No. 142-TA - Second Highway Project: $7
Million Loan and $15.5 Million Credit of February 24, 1969; Original
Closing Date December 31, 19723 Revised Closing Date Deceiber 31, 1973
Construction work on this project has also been completed, but
outstanding claims by both contractors and consultants are substantial.
However, one consultant claim has recently been settled and it is expected
that the remaining ones can be resolved by December 31, 1973, the revised
Closing Date.
Credit No. 265-TA - Third Highway Project: $6.5 Million Credit of
August 6, 1971; Closing Date December 31, 1974
The project consists of (i) improvement of paved standard
of the existing Mtwara-Masasi road (200 kin), (ii) betterment of 475 1cm
of agricultural feeder roads in the Geita district and in the Mara
region by two departmental units to be established, (iii) pre-invest-
ment studies for the project roads and another 250 km of high priority
roads, and (iv) continuation of the staffing and training program
initiated under the first highway project.
Due to delays in completing contracts with consultants and
finalizing tender documents, commencement of construction work has
fallen about one year behind schedule. However the consultant's con-
tracts are now being finalized, the tender documents are completed and a
rapid improvement in project implementation may now be expected.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 1h9-TA - Second Education Project: $5.0 Million Credit
of May 29, 1969; Closing Date September 30, 1973
A shortages of counterpart funds in FY 72 for scheduled
construction of about five project institutions was a main cause of
the project falling 12-18 months behind schedule. Contracts for 24
of the 28 project institutions have been awarded with construction
completed on 16 of the institutions; construction on the remaining
four is expected to start by July 1973. The project will likely be
completed with a total 24 month delay beyond the original schedule.
Credit No. 232-TA - Third Education Project: $3.3 Million Credit of
February 5, 1971; Closing Date June 30, 1975
This project is about 12 months behind schedule because of
site access problems in the areas near the Northwestern border, technical



AANEX HI
Page 6 of 6
serices bottleneck now resolved, and t,echnd.cal assistance recruitment
diffi.culties.  The project will probably be completed 12 months behind
schedule.  No disbursements have yet been made as unforseen b.ilateral
assistance is being provided for project design. Tender documients for
virtually all project work are near com-pletion.



ANNEX 1II
Page 1 of '
TANZANIA
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             United Republic of Tanzania.
Amount:               US $18.5 million equivalent.
Terms:                Standard IDA terms.
Project Description:  SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The development of about 35 ranches; developmer.t
and improvement of about 137 large, medium, and
small-scale cattle markets and 5,500 miles of stock
routes and 27 holding grounds; the modernization
of one meat processing plant and the construction
of two new ones; and the provision of related
technical services, training and assistance for
project preparation.
Cost of Project:      Component
(US$'0OO)
Local      Foreign    Total
Fixed Investments         10,558      6,797      17,355
Livestock and Pasture
Development              7,358        537       7,895
Firebreaks and Roads         371         247        618
Water Development             708      1,311      2,022
Stockhandling Facilities     386         257        643
Buildings                    562         375        937
Civil construction
(Processing Plants)        573        859      1,432
Vehicles and Equipment       527       2,987      3,5l14
Miscellaneous                  73        221        294



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4
Incremental Working-
Capital                    717          718        1,435
Technical Services         158        1,423        1,581
Contingencies            1,974        2,350        4,324
Total ProSject Cost     13,407       11,288       24,695
Financing PLan:   The financing plan is expected to be as follows:
Beneficiaries      Government          IDA           Total
u$ r ooo   _%     US$'00 o         us$, 0ooo  %     us$1000
RIANCHES
MACI                -        -      2,44)4    30     5,700    70       8, 144
D.DC                -                 862     30      2,010    70      2,872
>Masai UIjamaa     182      20        -        -        728   80.        910
Other Ujamaa       148      10        -              1,331    90       1,479
Sub-total       330              3,306             9,769           13,405
LIVFFSTOCK MARKETING
Marketing Company   -        -        960     28      2,439   72       3,399
MEAT PROCESSING
Meat Processing
Company             -        -      1,651     28     4,354    72       6,005
TECHNICAL SERVICES   -         -        -        -     1,886   100       1,886
TOTAL           330       -      5,917            18,448   -       24,695



ANNDE II-
Page 3 of 4
Relending:            The following are the proposed relending terms:
Interest               Amortization
Government to Tsnzania Rural
Development Bank (TRDB)         4         20 years including 5 years grace
TRDB to National Agricul-
tural Company Ltd.              8½       *12 years including 6 years grace
TRDB to District Develop-
ment Corporations               8½       *12 years including 6 years grace
TRDB to Livestock (Ujamaa)
Cooperatives                    8½       *12 years including 6 years grace
TRDB to Tanzania Livestock
Marketing Company               8½       *12 years including 3 years grace
T.WOB to Tanzania Meat
Processing Company              8½       *12 years including 3 years grace
The repayment and grace periods are expected to be flexible
but would not exceed those detailed above.
Estimated                               Fiscal Year
Disbursements:                          (US$'OO0s)
1973     1974     1975     197b,    1977
5,000     ,000    -5,000   2,G00    1,5c00
Procurement
Arrangements:         International competitive bidding for the con-
struction and equipping of two new -meat process'±ng  : a,
on a turnkey basis, for the eqi-ippinng of oine mea; processin'
plant, for tractors and machinery used on the
ranches and for heavy equipment and machinery
for land clearing to be carried out by depart-
mental forces; local competitive bidding for
civil works improvements to one existin, mneat processin-
plant (TPL), all livestockc woiuld be procured in East
Africa; small contracts for miscellaneous items
such as fertilizers and medicines would be awarded



A1N,EX III
Page 4 ol 1
locally according to procedures acceptable to the
Association.  Local -manaracturers would be allowed
a preferential margin of 15 percent or the
existing rate of imaport duties, whichever is tne
lower, over the c.i.f. price of imports.
sate of i?eturn:      Overell economic rate of return estimated at about
35 percent.
Appraisal Report:     Report No. 5la-TA dated March 1)4, 197.
Regional Projects Department
Eastern Africa Regi orial Office
Map:                  A map of Tanzania which shows the location of the
proposed project areas is attached.



fI.  7 4A'O44O74~~~~~  -  I                                       TANZANIA
U S  AN- A                                                                __  __I_
Obos<'~~~               SECOND     LIVESTOCK    DEVELOPMENT      PROJECT
7FTh57 .~~~~~~~~K  NY,
45,44574 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N1. '  S  '1750 
,RWA NDA                                                                                   Ism'!  -ST .41 1J$  04 1,  IWI05-354
<K4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'L T E.D1
J          -~~~~~~~~~~-..- 4Eor,osi    L 40140  N.,      - ,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
2i'  4'>                                                   "'''s  SForoOeM3ss 754440  543,40(5 HANa
14 -'7~     ~    4      staes,oI                                     0154NC515
17440340  J  K  1  -  ..i~~  5g43437474~~45\  .''"  I             11  40  7404  44,J0
N             rn~~~~~~~~ 
I       -o     5144                                                 LA    0000 0419304 404J550~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .00E
0130744 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  4,-  .  I r.4                    /V40O4
uJIJl\  ---- -                                                                         MCA-'--  4'.4o'  7. z /  $PMA  ® 044  54
4                  II Qg'/    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Ho  --~~~~~~~~~~ IMA.11T
7  '4  1~~~~~~~  /      7      -   _ -  'A
dole~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m--                     \ \-/-Z-6A1
j>gOrySkO\      / ~~~~~~~~~            '4'~~~~~~  /  '  ~ ~ ~ ~   X ~~~~SN7IhAO  7jUl72  ;7;:;z?  04400~-L~-C-.... ~ ~
5,  '4.                                        445 ,'\                           74534714 4440,4 4010 1,1375~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'N  '5Moo 00                           7           .                             154001,0 50340. 4444443 00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V  SAAA
R EP               24-           /                74 
17044541374  I  ..  7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3-  ~~~T L  I  7731 I'~
4~~~~0'~~~~~~"  4<   -7  5fS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  -  -  ~~~~~0 [C  10 200' 
r  c  k aN        N/ .\ 0V
T.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~M  ns7,  7IC                                                     IS  0   3   4
35J4s7The ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~     CF 
AAALAWI -. 
&44 '.  t.'N.  77u~~~~ig74,I  M.O Z A4 LOMETEURS
'~~~~,  r'444.                     LI'774  5                       44~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c



