CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 382 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 23, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 382 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 23, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 23, 1973, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will include a lending program in which the Tanzania Rural
Development Bank (hereinafter called TRDB) will participate as a financial
intermediary and the Borrower will, for such purpose, make available to TRDB
the equivalent of part of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and TRDB:
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the resp-ctive
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and TRDB of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;


﻿4
(b)   "NAFCO" means National Agriculture and Food Corporation;
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and TRDB pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d)   "Investment Project" means a specific investment project, as approved
or to be approved by the Project Management Unit and TRDB, to be carried out
by a Beneficiary and to be financed in part by means of a Sub-loan;
(e)   "Beneficiary" means the following entities to which TRDB proposes
to make or has made a Sub-loan:
(i)        under Part A.1 of the Project, the National Agricultural
Company, Limited, a subsidiary of NAFCO;
(ii)        under Part A.2 of the Project, the District Development
Corporation of the District where the Investment Project will
be carried out;
(iii)       under Part A.3 of the Project, the respective ujamaa cooperative;
(iv)       under Parts B and C of the Project, the Tanzania Livestock
Marketing Company, Limited, a subsidiary to be established by
NAFCO;
(v)        under Part D of the Project, the Tanzania Meat Processing
Company, Limited, a subsidiary to be established by NAFCO;
and Tanganyika Packers, Limited;
(f)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by TRDB
to a Beneficiary for an Investment Project, in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement;
(g)   "Project Management Unit" means the management unit referred to
in Section 3.02(b) hereof.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an


﻿5
amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million five hundred thousand
dollars ($18,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under this
Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any
country which is not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 1 and
Novembe- I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May I and November I commencing
May 1, 1983 and ending November 1, 2022, each installment to and including
the installment payable on November 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out,
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate


﻿6
administrative, financial and agricultural practices, and shall provide, for such
purpose and for the preparation and supervision of the Investment Projects,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services (including extension services) and
other resources required therefor.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under this Agreement, the Borrower (i) shall cause TRDB to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
all the obligations therein set forth; (ii) shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary
or appropriate to enable TRDB to perform such obligations; and (iii) shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(c)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit under Categories
II and III of the allocation of such proceeds set forth in Schedule I hereto to
TRDB under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and TRDB under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Borrower and the Association.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:
(a)   establish and maintain a Project Coordination Committee to give
general guidance to and ensure the adequate coordination of the agencies of the
Borrower involved in carrying out the Project. The committee shall be chaired
by the Principal Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and shall include the Principal
Secretary, Ministry of Finance, the Principal Secretary, Prime Minister's Office,
the Chairman and Managing Director of TRDB, the General Manager of NAFCO,
the Director of Agriculture, the Project Manager, and the Regional Development
Directors of the regions in which the ranches included in Parts A.2 and 3 of the
Projcct are to be established, or such other members as may be agreed upon from
time to time between the Borrower and the Association;
(b)   maintain a Project Management Unit and provide it with all funds,
facilities and services required to enable it to efficiently carry out its responsibilities
(as described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement), provided (i) that such Unit shall


﻿7
include the staff members listed in paragraph I of Annex A to Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and (ii) that such members shall have qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, and shall be employed under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
(c)   establish and maintain a Project Executive Committee to ensure
coordination at working level of the agencies of the Borrower responsible for the
carrying out of the Project. The Project Executive Committee shall be chaired by
the Project Manager and shall include the General Managers of the National
Agricultural Company, Limited, the Tanzania Livestock Marketing Company,
Limited, the Tanzania Meat Processing Company, Limited, and TRDB; the Director
of Agriculture; the Chief Veterinary Officer; and the Director of Planning, Prime
Minister's Office or such other members as shall be from time to time agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall facilitate the provision of short-term credit
to the Beneficiaries, to the extent such financing is required by the respective
Investment Project and is not available to the Beneficiaries under this Credit or
from other sources.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause NAFCO:
(a)   to maintain the following subsidiaries:
(i)         the Tanzania Livestock Marketing Company, Limited, having the
purpose   of  constructing  and  operating  cattle  markets,
establishing and maintaining stock routes and holding grounds,
and engaging in livestock trading; and
(ii)       the Tanzania Meat Processing Company, Limited, having the
purpose of constructing and operating meat packing plants; and
(b)   to transfer NAFCO's equity participation in Tanganyika Packers,
Limited to the Tanzania Meat Processing Company, Limited.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause the Tanzania Livestock Marketing
Company, Limited to control, operate and maintain all its stock routes, holding
grounds and livestock markets; provided that the Borrower shall continue to provide
veterinary services and certification for disease control in the movement and
marketing of livestock.


﻿8
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, within six months after the Effective Date,
present to the Association a plan for a new grading and pricing structure for
livestock marketing relating live weight and grades to carcass value.
Section 3.07. The Borrower agrees that it will consult with the Association
from time to time on its pricing policies in respect of the production, processing
and marketing of beef cattle and that the objectives of such policies shall, among
others, include (i) the encouragement of production and export of beef and beef
products; (ii) the financial viability of the Beneficiaries; and (iii) a reasonable
allocation of investment resources in beef cattle and other sectors.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause the Tanzania Livestock Marketing
Company, Limited to charge such prices and fees as will enable it to make a
reasonable profit after allowing for operating and other costs.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause TRDB to relend the proceeds of
the loan provided under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to Beneficiaries as
Sub-loans in accordance with the operating policies and procedures set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time by agreement among the Borrower, the Association, and TRDB.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement, the performance
by TRDB of its obligations under the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of TRDB,
NAFCO and those subsidiaries of NAFCO which are Beneficiaries and, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such


﻿9
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) Th, Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of TRDB,
NAFCO, and those subsidiaries of NAFCO which are Beneficiaries, and concerning
the resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under this Agreement
or the performance by TRDB of its obligations under the Project Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and the Project Agreement shall be free from
any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.


﻿10
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in this Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   TRDB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations tinder the
Project Agreement.
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that TRDB will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c)   The organization, powers or responsibilities of TRDB or of any of
the Beneficiaries which are subsidiaries of NAFCO shall have been altered so as
to affect adversely the execution of the Project.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
any event specified in Section 6.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b) of
the General Conditions:


﻿(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
TRDB have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and TRDB, respectively, have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(c)   The Project Management Unit has been established.
(d)   The Project Manager and the Assistant Project Manager, referred to
in paragraph 1 of Annex A to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have been appointed.
(e)   The Borrower has transferred to the National Agricultural Company,
Limited, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, the ranch on
the Kitulo Plateau referred to in Part A.1(i) of the Project, including the livestock,
machinery and other assets of such ranch.
(f)   The Tanzania Livestock Marketing Company, Limited and the Tanzania
Meat Processing Company, Limited referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 3.04
of this Agreement have been incorporated.
(g)   The Borrower has submitted to the Association a staffing plan
acceptable to the Association listing (i) the main duties and responsibilities of the
professional staff members set forth or referred to in Part E.1 of the Project, (ii)
the necessary qualifications and experience of such staff members, and (iii).the
dates on which they are to take up their duties.
(h)   TRDB has submitted to the Association an analysis of its overdue
accounts and a statement of measures to reduce such overdue accounts.
(i)   The Borrower has transferred to the Tanzania Livestock Marketing
Company, Limited the control, the operation and the maintenance of all its stock
routes, holding grounds and livestock markets.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, TRDB, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of TRDB in accordance with its terms.


﻿12
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement (i) has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and TRDB,
respectively, (ii) constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
TRDB in accordance with its terms and (iii) is in full force and effect.
(c)   That the Tanzania Livestock Marketing Company, Limited and the
Tanzania Meat Processing Company, Limited have been incorporated in accordance
with the provisions of the applicable laws of the Borrower.
Section 7.03. The date October 31, 1973, is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The provisions of Sections 6.02 and 6.03 of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for
Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
The Treasury
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
Treasury
Dar es Salaam


﻿13
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s/ Paul Bomani
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Michael L. Lejeune
Director, Country Programs Department
Eastern Africa Regional Office


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I    Equipment for                  1,500,000          100% of foreign
the Borrower's                                   expenditures
tsetse control
unit
II    Sub-loans under               9,300,000          100% of the
Parts A, B and                                   amount disbursed
C of the Project                                 under the Sub-
loans
III  Sub-loans under                3,500,000          100% of the
Part D of the                                    amount disbursed
Project                                          under the Sub-
loans
IV   Technical                      1,600,000          100% of foreign
services                                         expenditures and
70% of local ex-
penditures
V    Unallocated                    2,600,000
TOTAL              18,500,000


﻿15
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the c.irre-cy of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category IV on account of expenditures
under Part E.5 of the Project in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $50,000;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes; and
(c)   disbursements made under the Sub-loan made by TRDB to the National
Agricultural Company, Limited unless such Company shall have previously
submitted to the Association its audited accounts and financial statements for its
fiscal year 1972.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)  if the estimate of the expenditures under Categories I, II, III or IV
shall increase, the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph


﻿16
1 above in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such
increase, and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the
request of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the
Credit, subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by
the Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under this Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such
amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project forms part of the Borrower's program for livestock development
and consists of the followming:
Part A:    Ranch Development
1.   The development by the National Agricultural Company, Limited of
the following ranches in the locations indicated below or such other locations as
shall be agreed upon by the Borrower and the Association:
(i)        three ranches established at Usangu, Sumbawanga and the Kitulo
Plateau, respectively;
(ii)       four ranches to be established at Dakawa, Mkata, Malagarasi,
and Missenyi East, respectively; and
(iii)      four ranches at Mwisa.
2.    The development by the respective District Development Corporations
of four ranches in the Morogoro, Mbeya, Iringa, and Nzega Districts.
3.    The development of up to 22 ujamaa cooperative ranches in the
following areas, or in other areas to be agreed upon by the Borrower and the
Association:
(i)        ranches in the Shinyanga region comprising a total of about
50,000 hectares;
(ii)       ranches in the Dodoma region comprising a total of about 20,000
hectares; and
(iii)      ranches in the Arusha region comprising a total of about 30,000
hectares.
Part B:     Cattle Market Construction and Remodelling
The construction by the Tanzania Livestock Marketing Company,
Limited of three markets with a capacity of about 1,000 head, about 10 markets


﻿18
with a capacity of about 500 head and about 20 markets with a capacity of 50
to 200 head; and the remodelling of about 100 small markets.
Part C:    Stock Routes and Holding Grounds
1.   The construction by the Tanzania Livestock Marketing Company,
Limited of about 2,300 km of stock routes, including the development of water
points at intervals of about 25 km; the clearance of about 2,300 km of cattle
tracks; and the provision of about six veterinary checkpoints with stock dipping
and handling facilities.
2.    The improvement by the Tanzania Livestock Marketing Company,
Limited of about 2,200 km of stock routes, including the clearance of about
2,200 km of cattle tracks and the provision of about 100 fenced night pens.
3.   The establishment of four and the upgrading of about 23 holding
grounds by the Tanzania Livestock Marketing Company, Limited.
Part D:    Meat Processing Plants
The construction by the Tanzania Meat Processing Company, Limited of two
meat processing plants, at Mbeya and at Shinyanga, respectively, each with capacity
to handle 200 cattle per day; and the improvement and remodelling by Tanganyika
Packers, Limited of its meat processing plant at Dar es Salaam.
Part E:    Technical Services
1.   The hiring, or the continued employment, by the respective agencies
or corporations, of such professional, technical and managerial staff, and the
provision of equipment for the use of such staff, as are listed in Annex A to
this Schedule 2.
2.   The carrying out by the Project Management Unit of applied
investigational work related to the Project.
3.   The provision of (i) fellowships (about 23 man-years) for training in
Range Management, Range Water Development, Meat Technology and Economic
Range Management, Range Water Engineering and Agriculture Economics, and (ii)
correspondence courses and textbooks for local training of stores and accounting
staff.
4.    The provision of a typing laboratory for investigational work on
foot-and-mouth disease strains in Tanzania.


﻿19
5.   The evaluation of existing and the preparation of future livestock
projects in Tanzania.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 11078.


﻿20
ANNEX A TO
SCHEDULE 2
EMPLOYMENT OF PROFESSIONAL STAFF
(See Part E.1 of the Project)
1.   The employment by the Borrower, as members of the Project Management
Unit, of a Project Manager, of an Assistant Project Manager and of a Range
Management and    Water Specialist, and  the provision  of adequate
transportation facilities for use by the Project Management Unit (including
the provision of fuel, oil and maintenance until completion of the Project).
2.   The employment, by the National Agricultural Company, Limited, of a Chief
Development Officer and four Ranch Technical Officers, and the additional
employment by said Company of a Senior Development Officer.
3.   The employment by the Tanzania Meat Processing Company, Limited of a
Meat Technologist.
4.   The employment by TRDB of a Credit Officer (livestock).
5.   The employment by the Tanzania Livestock Marketing Company, Limited
of a Chief Accountant.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 3
Responsibilities of Project Management Unit
The Project Management Unit shall be responsible for overall project
coordination and for advising and assisting the Beneficiaries in carrying out
the Project.
Without limitation on the generality of the foregoing, the Project Management
Unit shall:
(a)   approve the Beneficiaries' Investment Plans,
(b)   ensure that the applied investigational work related to the Project
(included in Part E. of the Project) concentrates on the important
input-output factors governing beef cattle production (as e.g. range
bush control, pasture improvement and management, supplementary
feeding, and range management techniIies);
(c)   establish a system  to monitor and evaluate the various parts of the
Project;
(d)   prepare, or advise and assist in the preparation of, procurement
documentation; and
(e)   prepare the quarterly and other reports on the carrying out of the
Project to be submitted by the Borrower to the Association.


