CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 630 PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Second Lahore Water Supply,
Sewerage and Drainage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PROVINCE OF THE PUNJAB
and
LAHORE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
and
WATER AND SANITATION AGENCY
OF THE LAHORE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Dated June 8, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 8, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL DEVE.L-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association), the
PROVINCE OF THE PUNJAB, acting through its Governor (hereinafter
called the Government), the LAHORE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (herein-
after called the LDA) and the WATER AND SANITATION AGENCY estab-
lished by the LDA under Section 10 of the Lahore Development
Authority Act (Punjab Act No. XXX of 1975) as amended (hereinafter
called WASA).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date here-
with between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-six million six hundred thousand dollars
($26,600,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the Government,
the LDA and WASA agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Government, the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to the LDA and WASA on the terms and conditions therein
set forth; and
WHEREAS the Government, the LDA and WASA, in consideration of
the Association's entering into the Development Credit Agreement
with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations here-
inafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The LDA and WASA shall carry out Parts A, B,
C and D and the LDA Part E of the Project described in Schedule 2
to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices, and the Government, the
LDA and WASA shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, counterpart staff, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist WASA: (a) in the preparation
of plans and specifications, the preparation of bidding documents,
the evaluation of bids, the award of contracts and the supervision
of the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project; and (b) in
staff training, leakage detection, maintenance operations and hydro-
logical, environmental and sewage irrigation studies; WASA, as
agent of the LDA, shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association.
Section 2.03. In order to assist WASA in the improvement of
its accounting and management systems and procedures, WASA, as
agent of the LDA, shall employ accounting and management consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employ-
ment shall be satisfactory to the Association.


﻿4-
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the goods and works for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, shall be procured by WASA, as agent of the LDA, in
accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) WASA, as agent of the LDA, undertakes to
insure, or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit onlent to
it against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by WASA to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, WASA shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit onlent to it to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) WASA shall furnish to the Association prompt-
ly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, con-
tract documents and construction and procurement schedules for Parts
A, B, C and D of the Project, and any material modifications there-
of or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) WASA: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identi-
fy the goods, works and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit onlent to it, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Association's representa-


﻿-5-
tives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project, and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit so onlent to it and the goods, works and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) WASA shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of WACk and any relevant records and docu-
ments.
Section 2.07. The Government shall duly perform all its obli-
gations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Associ-
ation shall otherwise agree, the Government shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) The Government, the LDA and WASA shall, at
the request of the Association, exchange views with the Association
with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of
their obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) The Government, the LDA or WASA shall promptly inform
the Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with, the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of


﻿-6-
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the Government,
the LDA or WASA of their obligations under this Agreement and under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Government, the LDA and WASA shall take all
such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed
all such land, and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for the construction (and operation) of the facilities included in
Parts A, B, C and D of the Project and shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that such land and rights in respect of land are available for
purposes related to the Project.
Section 2.10. The Government shall cause the LDA and WASA to
carry out and complete by December 31, 1977, or such other date as
may be agreed with the Association, an environmental study of the
River Ravi and the use of sewage for the irrigation of crops with
the assistance of consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be mutually satisfac-
tory to the Association and the Government and undertakes to ex-
change views with the Association regarding the implementation of
any recommendations for legislative action arising from such study.
Section 2.11. The Government shall cause the LDA to carry out
and complete by December 31, 1978, or such other date as may be
agreed with the Association, the urban development and traffic
studies included in Part E of the Project, with the assistance of
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be mutually satisfactory to the Associa-
tion and the Government.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of
the LDA and WASA
Section 3.01. WASA, as agent of the LDA, shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provisions satis-
factory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice
in Pakistan.
Section 3.02. (a) The Government and the LDA shall ensure
that the Managing Director of WASA is properly qualified and expe-
rienced and that he is given the authority necessary to enable
WASA to carry on its operations under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management and with an adequate and competent staff.
(b) In order to assist WASA in the conduct of its operations,
WASA, as agent of the LDA, shall employ consultants, whose quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association, to train counterpart and other
staff.
(c) For the purpose of carrying out Parto A, B, C and D of
the Project, the LDA and WASA shall determine WASA's staffing
requirements in consultation with the Association.
Section 3.03. WASA shall, within three months of the date of
this Agreement, establish a training unit that will be responsible


﻿-8-
for introducing and carrying out, in a manner and in accordance
with a timetable satisfactory to the LDA and the Association, a
plan of action for staff training to ensure that an adequate number
of trained staff are available to manage, operate and maintain its
plant, equipment, properties and facilities.
Section 3.04. WASA shall:
(i) at all times manage its affairs, maintain its
financial position, plan its future expansion
and carry on its operations all in accordance
with appropriate administrative, financial and
public utility practices; and
(ii) cause its plant, equipment, properties and facilities
to be maintained and all necessary renewals and
repairs thereto to be made all in accordance with
appropriate engineering and public utility practices.
Section 3.05. The LDA and WASA shall not, without the consent
of the Association, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of
any of WASA's properties or assets which shall be required for the
efficient conduct of WASA's operations.
Section 3.06. The Government shall cause the LDA and WASA to
undertake and complete by June 30, 1978, or such other date as may
be agreed with the Association, a survey of the whole of WASA's
service area to determine the number and legality of water and
sewer connections in the said service area, with a view to improving
WASA's billing procedures.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. WASA shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. WASA shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association who shall be appointed as
WASA's auditors for at least two consecutive fiscal years prior to
the commencement of the first such fiscal year; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested and after
it has been reviewed by the LDA; and (iii) furnish to the Associ-
ation such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of WASA and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request,
Section 4.03. To assist the LDA and WASA in carrying out the
Project, the Government hereby undertakes that it will (i) make
a loan C; the LDA for use by WASA of an amount in Pakistan rupees
equivalent to twenty-one million dollars ($21,000,000) on terms
and conditions mutually satisfactory to the Association and


﻿- 10 -
the Government; and (ii) continue to transfer to WASA during each
fiscal year until June 30, 1986, not less than 42.5% of urban immo-
vable property taxes collected in Lahore in each fiscal year.
Section 4.04. The Government shall cause its Excise and Tax-
ation Department to provide WASA each month with details of any
changes in the annual rental value of properties situated within
Lahore.
Section 4.05. (a) The Government, the LDA and WASA shall (i)
take all such action as shall be necessary on their part to modify
WASA's charges for water in a manner satisfactory to the Association
by not later than January 1, 1977; and (ii) except as the Borrower
and the Association may otherwise agree, take all steps (including,
but without limitation, adjustments of WASA's tariff structure or
the overall levels of such tariff) as shall be required to provide
WASA with revenues sufficient to produce an annual rate of return
on the average value of WASA's net fixed assets in operation of
at least 4% in fiscal years 1978 to 1980, 5% in fiscal years 1981
and 1982 and 6% in fiscal year 1983, and thereafter.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The annual rate of return shall be calculated by
using as the denominator the value of net fir.ed
assets in operation of WASA at the beginning, and
at the end of the financial year in question, and
dividing the total by two, and, as the numerator,
an amount equal to the operating income of WASA for
that year.


﻿- 11 -
(ii) The term "value of net fixed assets in operation of
WASA" means the gross value of WASA's fixed assets
in operation, as revalued from time to time, based
on appropriate valuation methods approved by the
Association, less accumulated straight-line de-
preciation.
(iii) The term "operating income" means the difference
between operating revenues and operating expenses.
(iv) The term "operating revenues" means all revenues
from WASA's operations and other revenues incidental
thereto.
(v) The term "operating expenses" means all costs of
operation by WASA of its facilities. including
overhead costs, maintenance expenses. taxes. if
any, and adequate provision for straight-line de-
preciation, but excluding interest and other charges
on debt.
Section 4.06. The LDA and WASA undertake that, except as the
Association may otherwise agree, they will take whatever action is
necessary to ensure that WASA's outstanding receivables excluding
current billings are reduced by June 30 of each of the years speci-
fied below to the undermentioned percentages of the amount billed
during each such year.
1977      ----       100
1979      ----        60%


﻿- 12 -
1981      ----        20%
1982 and each suc-
ceeding year     15%
Section 4.07. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
the LDA shall not incur any debt on behalf of WASA unless the net
revenue of WASA for the fiscal year next preceding the date of such
incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the
date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be not
less than 1.25 times the maximum debt service requirements for any
succeeding fiscal year on all debt of WASA including the debt to
be incurred.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) the term "debt" means all debt incurred by the LDA on
behalf of WASA including debt assumed or guaranteed by the LDA,
except debt incurred in the ordinary course of business and maturing
by its terms on demand or less than one year after its incurrence;
(b) the term "incur" with reference to any such debt includes
any modification of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall
be deemed to be incurred by the LDA on behalf of WASA (i) under a
contract or loan agreement, on the date the contract or loan agree-
ment providing for such debt is entered and, (ii) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee
shall have been entered into;
(c) the term "net revenue" means gross revenue received by
WASA from water supply, sewerage and drainage services, less all
operating expenses, including adequate maintenance, taxes or payment


﻿- 13 -
in lieu of taxes, if any, and administrative expenses, but before
provision for depreciation and interest and other charges on debt;
(d) the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any),
interest and other charges on such debt; and
(e) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the currency
of the Borrower debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the official rate of exchange at the
time such valuation is made.
Section 4.08. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
WASA shall not, prior to the Closing Date, make any investment or
undertake any project or development (other than the carrying out
of the Project) which would result in estimated capital expenditures
by WASA exceeding in any fiscal year the equivalent of one million
dollars ($1,000,000).


﻿- 14
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come _nto force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Government, the LDA and WASA thereunder
shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)       the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in ac-
cordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a)(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify the
Government, the LDA and WASA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified
or at such other address as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Associatior
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For the Government:
Secretary, Local Government and
Social Welfare Department
Government of the Punjab
Lahore
Pakistan
Cable address:
Secretary Local Government
Lahore


﻿- 16 -
For the LDA:
Director General
Lahore Development Authority
Shah-re-Qaid-e-Azim
Lahore
Pakistan
Cable address:
DGLDA
Lahore
For WASA:
Managing Director
Water and Sanitation Agency
4-A, Gulberg V
Lahore
Pakistan
Cable address:
EMDWASA
Lahore
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Government, the LDA or WASA may be taken
or executed by the Chief Minister of the Government, the Director
General of the LDA or the Managing Director of WASA respectively
or such other person or persons as they shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. The Government, the LDA and WASA shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated sDecimen signature of the Derson or persons who will,
on their behalf, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by the Government, the LDA and
WASA pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.


﻿-17 -
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿- 18 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia
PROVINCE OF THE PUNJAB
By // A. M. Mufti
Authorized Representative
LAHORE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
By /s/ A. M. Mufti
Authorized Representative
WATER AND SANITATION AGENCY OF THE
LAHORE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
By /s/ A. M. Mufti
Authorized Representative


﻿-19 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B and Part D2 hereof, the goods
and works shall be procured under contracts to be awarded in ac-
cordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
and the Association may require that bidders for the works included
in the Project be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of
Part A of the Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for: (i) water main rehabilitation works; (ii) secon-
dary drainage construction works; and (iii) the operational build-
ings included in Parts C and D of the Project shall be awarded in
accordance with local procurement procedures acceptable to the
Association.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imnorted goods, or the


﻿- 20 -
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to WASA of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Pakistan may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following pro-
visions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the informa-
tion required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such pre-
ference and the following methods and stages that will be followed
in the evaluation and compar4son of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Pakistan
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of WASA and the Association that the manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes a value added
in Pakistan equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Pakistan.


﻿- 21 -
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evaluated
bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of each group shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this com-
parison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall b=
selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A
after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   With respect to all contracts for equipment and materials es-
timated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more and to all civil
works other than those specified in paragraph B above:


﻿- 22 -
(a) Before bids are invited, WASA shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or Drocedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the nrospective
bidders.
(b) Promptly after the bids have been received, WASA shall
inform the Association of the names of the bidders and the respec-
tive amounts of the bids.
(c) After bids have been received and evaluated, WASA shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association
of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and the reasons for the intended award and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Government,
the LDA and WASA and state the reasons for such determination.
(d) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked.


﻿- 23
(e) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for the
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   Any contract for equipment and materials estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $50,000 shall be exempt from procure-
ment on the basis of international competitive bidding, provided
that the aggregate of all such contracts shall not exceed the
equivalent of $500,000. Two conformed copies of each such contract
shall be furnished to the Association promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Association of the first appli-
cation for the withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in
respect of such contract.


