V-                                                              CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 630 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Second Lahore Water Supply,
Sewerage and Drainage Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 8, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 8, 1976, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN (hereinafter called the Borrower) acting through its
President and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Project will be carried out by the Province of the
Punjab, acting through its Governor (hereinafter called the Govern-
ment), the Lahore Development Authority (hereinafter called the
LDA) and the Water and Sanitation Agency established by the LDA
under Section 10 of the Lahore Development Authority Act (Punjab
Act No. XXX of 1975) as amended (hereinafter called WASA) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to the Government for on-lending to the LDA and
WASA the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C) The Association is willing to make the Credit available
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a proj-
ect agreement of even date herewith between the Association, the
Government, the LDA and WASA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 197, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the re-
spective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association, the Government, the LDA and WASA of even date herewith,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supple-
mental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Government pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and


﻿-3-
(c) "Act" means the Lahore Development Authority Act (Punjab
Act No. XXX of 1975), as amended to the date of this Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set
forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-six million six hundred thousand dollars ($26,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services re-
quired for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall othenwise agree,
the goods and works for the Project to be financed ot of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980,
or such later date as the Association shall specify. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-5-
Section 2.0). The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each January 1
and July 1 cormencing July 1, 1986, and ending January 1, 2026,
each installment to aid including the installment payable on
January 1, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Managing Director of WASA is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any ac-
tion required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Con-
ditions for expenditures in respect of Parts A, B, C and D of the
Project and the Director General of the LDA is designated as re-
presentative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any such
action for expenditures in respect of Part E of the Project.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause the Government, the LDA and WASA
to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agree-
ment and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action necessary
or appropriate to enable the Government, the LDA and WASA to per-
form such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit avail-
able to the Government for on-lending to the LDA and WASA under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and the Government under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion of the Government, the LDA or WASA under the Project Agree-
ment;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Act which materially
and adversely affects the financial condition or operations of the
LDA or WASA;
(c) ite Borrower, the Government or any other authority hav-
ing jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution
or liquidation of the LDA or WASA or for the suspension of all or
part of WASA's operations; and
(d) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which makes
it improbable that the Government, the LDA or WASA will be able to
perform their obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:


﻿-8-
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower, the Government, the LDA and WASA; and
(b) any of the events specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿9
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of the Government, the LDA and WASA have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary governmental or corporate action; and
(b) the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
on behalf of the Borrower and the Government, respectively, have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the
Association:
(a) That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of the Government,
the LDA and WASA, and is legally binding upon the Government, the LDA
and WASA in accordance with its terms; and
(b) That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behal.7 of, the Borrower
and the Government and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the
Government in accordance with its terms.


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.03. The date September 15, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-                          - 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division, is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:
ECONOMIC
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ A. M. Mufti
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPiENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regionai Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Equipment, mate-            9,200,000         100% of foreign
rials and other                              expenditures or
supplies                                     100% of local ex-
penditures (ex-
factory cost) or
40% of imported
goods procured
locally (being
the estimated
foreign exchange
component),
(2) Civil works                11,200,000         50% of local ex-
penditures or
100% of foreign
expenditures
(3) Consultants' Ser-             500,000         100%
vices for Parts
A, B, C and D
of the Project


﻿-14-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in    Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(4) Consultants' Ser-              1,600,000     100%
vices for Part E
of the Project
(5) Unallocated for                4,100,000
Parts A, B, C and
D of the Project
TOTAL          26,600,000


﻿-15-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means exoenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no -oroceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or suDnly thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in re-
spect of any item to be financed out of the oroceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the Bor-
rower, increase or decrease the disbursement nercentage then anpli-
cable to such item as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount


﻿- 16 -
of the Credit then allocated to any Category (except Category 4)
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expen-
ditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required
to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce
the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable op-
inion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the second stage of a program, to be
undertaken during the period 1976 through 1979, to improve water
supply, sewerage and drainage services in the Lahore metropolitan
area and the carrying out of urban development and traffic studies
of that area, and comprises the following Parts, namely:
Part A:
(a) The construction of about 47 tubewells and about
5 miles of tubewell associated transmission mains
and the construction or rehabilitation of about
38 miles of the water main grid and about 150 miles
of the water distribution network;
(b) The improvement of water sunDly operations by the
creation of a hydrology cell, the creation of a
leak detection and reuair cell, the carrying out
of a planned preventive maintenance program,
the metering of tubewells, the creation of a con-
trol center for tubewell pumping and the carrying
out of a training program; and
(c) The carrying out of an environmental study of the
River Ravi and the use of sewage for the irrigation
of crops.


﻿- 18 -
Part B:
(a) The construction of about 17 miles of trunk sewers,
about 285 miles of collector sewers, 4 new pumping
stations and the extension of 1 existing pumping
station and construction of a prototype waste
stabilization nond; and
(b) The construction or rehabilitation of about 21
miles of secondary drainage channels.
Part C:
The provision of additional offices, oDerational buildings,
equipment and maintenance facilities for WASA.
Part D:
The nrovision of training facilities and the carrying out of
a training orogram for WASA staff in accordance with a plan of
action acceptable to the LDA, WASA and the Association.
Part E:
The carrying out of studies of (i).rehabilitation, housing
and social services; (ii) transportation improvement; and (iii)
physical and socio-economic program nlanning in the Lahore metro-
politan area.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


