Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24287
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26990)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 40.5 MILLION (US$59.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO INDIA
FOR iTHE
AGRLICULDUKAL    UMAN RESOU-KCES DE)IVELOPIMENT PRKOIEX1
June 24, 2002
Rural Development Sector Unit
Sniith Amin Rpmann
This document has a restricted distribution and mayv he iiued hv rer-inientk only in the nerfnrrnnnee of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CT TD DT^,TrMV  CTA TTn ArT L1TrT
V     X   *  V A  V  ^ f .LJ.L  *
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = Indian Rupees
Rs. 3i.37 =  USS i.00 (August 994')
US$ 1 = Rs. 48.18 (December 2001)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
UTCYrAT `V`FAD
April I - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEC           Agircultural Education Council
CAS           CoCn,ty A ceistance StratePg
DARE          Department of Agricultural Research and Education
TDT           T'-     T.. nv;-
FY            Financial Year
GI'JT           .        of T_ia
HRD           Human Resources Development
T3D1k s       TTf.- __ sourA1/%-Aes?,f-
AIINVI       IIUJIL 1XVI  U    .asL4 Lt
ICAR          Indian Council of Agricultural Research
TI' A  ) /T?YVN  T-3-       - ,C A  _' 1-   flA      -  :
ICARu- kj:D-)  L-lUial CUT1  VI AES61;C'LILULaI PIe%V3A,-QII kIUU%CaLV 0;
Division)
ICR %Implem1e4ntaLion Comipleuion RepotL
IDA           International Development Agency
1             infonnation T chnology
LD            Line Department
MOA           Ministry of Agriculture
MTR           Mid Term Review
PG            Post Graduate
QAE           Quality at Entry
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
Rs            Indian Rupee
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SAU           State Agricultural University
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SOE           Statement of Expenditure
UG            Under Graduate
US$           United States Dollar
Vice President:  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:   Edwin R Lim
Sector Director:  Constance Bernard
Sector Manager:    Gajanand Pathmanathan
Task Manager:    Puil iinah Sidhu



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
*. r iiusapa. X wsLvtflUaUUs IsWsb 
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  8
6. Sustainability                                                                      9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    12
9. Partner Comments                                                                   13
10. Additional Information                                                            14
Annex I. Ci-v Pperfnrmance fndiratrmlnog Frmme Matriy                                 15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  18
JIIneA 3. Pconoruic Co's.U  aiiu LDenef;IL                                            19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 25
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation                                                        26
Annex 9. Participation of Stakeholders in Meetings with the ICR Mission               35
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
IW$ . g"    a U       - 'W - Ui   -   i.          ...4---   --. IL   -   41
me performance of their ormciai duutes- iis cun.eLeis may ItUt Ute ULuti                               L     l
without World Bank authorization.






PREFACE
This is the Core Accountability Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural
H--LnaI- PRCsources D"evelopmecnut PrioqetL4a, for T-A:c C-- 1re-A:4 2699Ln XT -; ao- t o f S%DR
LIULUGL i~'JU ~iJ~V ~UjJJJ~LL 7 IJ~A IL LLUIQ, IVA WIu1%.II '.L4ULL J.77J.LI llL UIV anVIUUJIL UI OIJI
40.5 million (US$ 59.5 million equivalent) was approved by the Board on March 30, 1995, signed
on Apri 11, 1995, and made efrective on August 4, 1995. mne originai project pian was modified
by extending the Credit Closing Date by one year to December 31, 2001. Total disbursement is
SDR 40.126 million, and SDR 0.374 million is to be cancelled.
The ICR has been prepared jointly by Animesh Shrivastava (FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program) and Paul Sidhu (SASRD). It is based on field visits in November-December 2001
(FAO/CP World Bank ICR mission)', Staff Appraisal Report, Credit and Project Agreements,
Iimi-nminn Rennrts andi dinrmentc in nrnient files as we11 2S nmiert completion rennrtnr irnna-t
rl-- I…-                              - -r-- -  ---  Me
assessment reports and briefing documents prepared by the implementing agencies.
The ICR has been peer-reviewed by Lauritz Holm-Nielsen (LCSHE) and David Hansen
(Associate Dean and Director, international Programs in Agriculture, Tne Ohio State University,
USA). The Borrower contributed to the ICR by preparing an evaluation report of the project
which is attached as Annex 8. The November 19 - December 10, 2001 ICR Mission
aide-memoire and other supporting documents are available in the project file.
The rission rom.prised M-esrs. A qhriu,actavn (Pon nmiet M, ainn Lt jdIr FAO./C'P), P Sidh.i (Tack- T eadepr
World Bank), A. Venkataraman (Agricultural Education Specialist, Consultant) and S.K. Shrivastava (Human
Developmpnt Specialist, World Bank), and Ms M Msmsnak (Pinancial Management Sperialist- W.rAnd Bank).






I Project ID: P010503                                     Project Name: AGRIC HUMAN RES DEVT
ITear. 1-... P.au! 4.i.nh 7AkU                            IT f,.. C VA Cn
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 24, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: AGRIC HUMAN RES DEVT                          LIC/TF Number: IDA-26990
Country/Deparftrnt- INDIA                                               Reon: South- Asia Regional
Office
Sector/.vubsector: AE - Aaricultural Extension
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   06/05/1991                             Effective: 02/01/1995         08/04/1995
Appraisal:  08/12/1994                               MTR: 12/31/1997            09/10/1998
Approval:  03/30/1995                              Closing: 12/31/2000          12/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  Govemment of India/Denartment of Agricultural Research and Education (MOA)
(Coordination)
Other Partners:  Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR); States of Andhra Pradesh,
Haryana and Tamil Nadu covering four State Agricultural Universities (SAUs)
and 14 Line Departments (LDs)
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                           Joe Wood
Country Manager:     Edwin Lim                                 Javad Khalilzadeh Shirazi
Sector Manager:      Gajanand Pathmanathan                     Shawki Barghouti
Team Leader at ICR:  Paul Sidhu                                William Nickel
ICR Primary Author:  Animesh Shrivastava (FAO/CP)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
AS=ia   i;UL Su-idALy, S=S i5r L=U i.4I, fJL       if5y LEd.Wy, LrL4LCIy, LJikU:y, "UInf1i5ll j
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at.Entry:                        U
Project at Riskiat Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3. Original Objective:
3.1 .1    '   The objectives of the project were to: (a) improve the quality and relevance of higher
a.wluu. .u UULWIuu and U1iu Y1U-  -Wiug; UUU tau J uu)WjtI s ULVLa I.Uf iyu oi pd.LUic:paung sL4ize LU
develop and manage agricultural human resources.
3.1.2         Project objectives were clear and in line with government policy of upgrading the quality
and management of human capital in the agricultural sector. Tne project was seen as me first phase of a
long term process of reversing deterioration in agricultural human resource base to support stronger
agriculturai growth. The objectives were consistent with Bank!s Country Assistance Strategy (GAS) which
supports economic growth and social development through the Government of India (GO1) policies that
enhance efficiency of resource allocation. The links with related CAS focus on poverty were not made
explicit but strong agricultural growth in the long run is expected to impact upon poverty. The project was
innovative in focusing on changes in institutions, policies, processes and performance behavior rather than
physical targets. Years of neglect, institutional inertia and lack of focus on performance, quality and
efficiency in the implementing public agricultural institutions meant that SAUs, line departments and ICAR
had limited intrinsic capacity for undertaling the project. However, project design responded to this
through a set of inter-linked policy, administrative, pedagogic and infrastructural interventions to augment
management and implementation capacity of implementing agencies, maling project objectives achievable
with low risk.
3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1         Project objectives remained unchanged throughout the implementation period, although
there were some adjustments in the size of the components after the Mid-Term Review (M KR).
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1         The project consisted of four components: (a) Indian Council of Agricultural Research
(ICAR) Strengthening; (b) University Programs; (c) In-Service Human Resources Development and
Management; and (d) Manpower Needs Assessment
3.3.2         The ICAR Strengthening component focused on enhancement of ICAR's capacity to set,
enforce and monitor compliance with norms and standards for agricultural education in the country. The
Education Division of ICAR [ICAR (ED)] was to be reorganized and a new Accreditation Board to be set
up to formulate norms to be used for all SA-Us engaged in deiivering agricultural programs. National and
international linkages were to be encouraged by introduction of short-term study visits by education
managers, development of inter-institutional ties between SAUs and foreign universities and promotion of
sabbatical leave for core teaching staff. The component included funds for specialist studies and services,
information systems, incremental staff, staff training, new office accommodation and related infrastructure.
At appraisal, the cost for this component was US$ 10.6 million, accounting for 14% of total base costs of $
74.2 million.
3.3.3         The University Programs component supported a range of policy and institutional changes
as well as complementary investments to: (a) enhance teaching quality standards; (b) upgrade student
education; and (c) improve university administration. For teaching quality enhancement, teachers were to
be provided with periodic training as well as with fellowships for short- to medium-term study visits
abroad. Educational Technology Cells were to be formed to plan and develop educational systems and
programs, academic in-breeding was to be reduced, core teaching staff was to be identified, and linkages
were to be established between university staff and the industry. Upgrading the quality of student education
- 2 -



was to involve revision of curricula, new courses, more practical and vocational training, reduction of
academic insularity of SAUs, better teaching, training and campus facilities, and establishment of student
counselling and placement services. University administration was to be improved through adoption of
modem computer-based recording and reporting systems and through a thorough review and reform of
universities' financial management system relating to education. The changes in the SAUs were to be
introduced through greater involvement of the sectoral clientele: expansion of the Board of Management of
SAUs to allow for private sector representation; establishment of Broad Based Advisory Groups
comprising 25-30 private representatives from the agricultural sector; and use of resource persons from
private sector for providing specialist lectures, training and career guidance. The cost of this component
was US$ 44.3 million, accounting for 60% of total base costs.
3.3.4         The In-Service Human Resources Development and Management (HRD and HRM)
component aimed at improving use and effectiveness of sectoral manpower in agriculture development
departments by laying the foundation for systematic HRD, supported bv oualitv traiingn. Svstematic HRD
was to include development of capability to: write accurate job descriptions; conduct skill and knowledge
gap analvsis: design training nrograms: and contract. supervise and evaluate training programs. A cadre of
skilled trainers was to be established under the project to satisfy, in a responsive way, the demand-driven
trnining needs arising frnm svytematic ffRn. Further the imnnrtance nf RM was tn he raised amona the
managerial staff who were to be given suitable training in this regard. The component also provided
spponrt fnr estahlishment, exnansion and improvement of tmining infriqtnintira Tt rnst USI 18.9 millinn
accounting for 25% of total base costs.
3.3.5         The Manpower Needs Assessment component sought to promote a rigorous analysis of
a,tir',utiml lab1nr rnorket as wel as fncter brnad-bcasA Aialnmip on yorw%u,pvr isesii. The rnmnonpnt
provided for the establishment of State-level Manpower Advisory Councils to sponsor independent studies
of labor rket require.m.ents and trenAds, deelop st-te..specific agricultural 0nponkoer daotohoo Adniscs
manpower issues and constraints, and make recommendations to state governments and universities on
app.opJL..ate  fl; oral81 raIg ,.poe fplicies WY WflO1*pr.M =hsa was -le mr^allest wmpo
costing US$ 0.3 million, accounting for 0.4% of total base costs.
3.3.6         The components were directly related to project objectives and covered adequately the
range oi Wu11sne uIVunU uLe. arsda uoj pouw:y, insautioUnal IALJ.aJI5, uaingu, aAdrsuauo.., pedlaguoy ariu
infrastructure improvement. Although attention was paid to building up management and implementation
capaciy aL vaUiUou lUevls, in *rUU VbVL 'UIV abiULiLy VI he JiVp1U.1nUUng agencies WUI rebspetL LU
procurement, financial management, and selection and placement of staff for overseas training were
over-esurnatu. rrujciu udeign =eiiem,eu lessons iauneu irum nauuoa anu LnmuiuatiUo expinuce in
provision of Bank assistance to higher agricultural education, especially in its emphasis on: (a) involving
broad range of sectoral representatives in problem analysis and project design; Ca) focusing assistance oni
upgrading university management and developing appropriate govemance; (c) incomporating agricultural
organizations and other sectoral clientele in university decision maing; and (d) strengthening ties with local
and intemational institutions.
3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1        The pm; -twrmn re..w did not rnetn irt   t to   nr%^Pnfet S^nm# rviAdnn of allo^'ation
across components occunred in the latter half of the project following substantial lags in credit utilization
andt d;,AeS"'.0JPW ,es *n. ifElOjSfflf.f.Ffl St. V..on . o  wiw cmyS.nt..
3.5.1         The project was innovative in pursuing quality and capacity-based objectives in a
-3-



demand-oriented setting. Although the objectives were consistent with CAS and GOI policies, they were
insufficiently specific or measurable. Project design did not adequately overcome this through making
provisions for development of substantive, measurable indicators of development effectiveness in order to
guide both implementation and supervision. Failure to establish baseline benchmarks of quality, to
undertake priority strengthening of testing and measurement capacity (and methodology) at implementing
agencies, and to establish standardized reporting formats for supervising and implementing agencies, led to
weaknesses in M&E, making it difficult to assess incremental impact of the project and its development
effectiveness.
3.5.2        Main perceived risks related to institutional inertia in implementation and to procedural
complexity of some of the changes required, e.g. formation of Agricultural Education Council (AEC). Risk
mitigation measures involved an extensive consultative preparatory phase and assurances obtained at
negotiation. In hindsight, incentives and mechanisms to enforce compliance with agreed action matrices did
not prove robust or effective. Project implementation difficulties were experienced due to lack of readiness
and delay in formation/operation of agreed structures, adoption of agreed processes and recruitment of
agreed staff. The proposal to form the AEC, an important Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) long term goal
adopted after due consultation, has been set aside and the current proposal is to invest the Accreditation
Board in ICAR(ED) (an interim and, hence, implicitly second-best proposal at the time of proiect
appraisal) with statutory powers instead.
3.5.3        The project scope was complex and very broad due to inclusion of both SAUs and Line
Departments (LDs) which have different organizational missions, line of control, cultures and clientele. As
per the project implementation plan, the ICAR (ED) was to play a key role at the national level and
Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE), GOI was the nodal agency for the overall
project coordination. Unlike SAUs, DARE and ICAR do not have line of control and effective linkages
with the state LDs. As such there is little evidence of the mle played by DARE/ICAR (ED) in effectively
coordinating their project activities. In light of the financial management problems that later emerged (e.g.,
finding of Anril 2001 sunervision mission that proiect fimding commitments were far in excess of fimds
available) it is also notable that the preparation teams did not include any financial management specialist.
Also, the incentives or mechanisms to ensure greater accomuntahilitv hv RAT IJ tn their clientele for qualitv
and relevance of higher education were not sufficiently clear. Overall, quality at entry is rated as
"wnQs&tiqfnctnrv" dueto lack of readiness, And w.eaknesses in WM&F fAmwnrfinaiinnin] =mnagment
incentives/mechanisms for eliciting compliance, line of control and coordination arrangements in view of
the pr^,-e-YA's- c-O!-lydt,y-
I C A                   0\A PnAVi ArA . _ .*
J .J.t I-.V JI ,         us WI A  as LVL %..I1Mu uL.
4. Achievement of Objective and Otputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1        Ouality and relevance of higher agricultural education have been improved by
establishment of an Accreditation Board, demand-oriented curricuiar reforms and complementary
investments in staff training and educational infrastructure. A participatory system of institutional
accreditation has been developed and is being mainstreamed by ICAR. Academic norms for all
undergrduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) programs have been revised and implemented. Relevance of
educational programs has been improved through revision and updating of curricula, introduction of course
units in new and emerging areas such as biotechnology, computer applications, agribusiness management,
sustainable agriculture etc, and broadening the scope of courses to include skill-oriented, hands-on training
programs based on wide-ranging stakeholder consultations. Development and upgrading of teaching
-4 -



materials (laboratory manuals, course modules, text books, etc) and methodology have been assisted by
substantial investments in faculty training and upgrading of classrooms, laboratories, libraries and IT
facilities. These changes have resulted in improvements in the quality and relevance of the educational
programs and the teaching/learning environment
4.1.2         Ouality and relevance of in-service training have been improved by development and
implementation of need-based traiing programs, greater client (farmers, agro-industry, input suppliers,
etc) involvement! modernization of training facilities and investments in staff trainina. Impnmved lmininLg
programs and adoption of more effective agricultural technology dissemination practices appear to have
impacted nositivelv on indicators of extension nerformance.
4.1.3         Canacitv of the narticinatinp States to develnp and manacre apnrritulnr-n hnmnan re-om rges
has been enhanced by creation of skills, institutional capacity and infrastructure which have enabled the
L.Dls to assess their hiiman renuirrpe develnnment needc fornmnlate mnd imnplemp.nt hilmain resniirn,
management plans, provide in-service training, and liaise with other relevant institutions.
4.1.4         Overall, the project outcome has been satisfactory since it has by and large achieved its
develnriment nhierttives follnuwina imnrnvedl manngpmpnt andi n_ew  znnal perfiormnce Of key agriclhtral
institutions at central, state and university levels.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1         Output indicators are given in Annex 1. Specific and measurable output indicators, linked
to project development objectives, were neither specified in SAR nor developed and standardized during the
course of supervisions and impact assessments by implementing agencies. As a result in many cases a
"physical" interpretation of output has been adopted and data have been collected and presented
accordingly. Also, impact assessment studies have focused more on qualitative aspects of project
interventions (regarding. e.g., national/international training, or upgrading of classrooms and educational
resources) than on quality and relevance of the education imparted.
4.2.2        ICAR Strengthening Satisfactory. ICAR(ED) has been reorganized into five sections, viz.,
two on Human Resource Development (I and II) Education Development and Planning; Accreditation and
Home Science to improve its effectiveness. The Accreditation Board has been set up. However, the idea of
setting un an indenendent AEC with statutory nowers- agreed at the start of the project, has been dropped
in consultation with the Bank. It is proposed, instead, to make the Accreditation Board permanent and
invest it with statutory nowers= A manual fnr acrreditatinn has heen nrnducied, all four prnoect SAUs have
been accredited, and the process is being mainstreamed to cover all SAUs in the country by 2004.
Common- revised acdemic nnrms and nifnirm academic calendar have been intrdurred. Policy changes
have been made to improve quality and diversity of student intake by filling up 15% seats in UG and 25%
sa--qts in PfT nmaramc in all SRATUs in the pn,,ntru thrnliah inatinal level tests fi ir andt,ufrnii n of vt+or,
talent scholarships and research fellowships. Steps have also been taken to upgrade quality of faculty
reenW.tment thrnugcrh the Mationa! PI;TibhiIft Test A Mo . Cel ha. so .be,enst p, TnIADiMM for
monitoring and enforcing norms and standards in agricultural education in the country. A system of
ro,a,nAs andi mnponl4roc hc as. benput in p.ace to pnrrnnomtspd adoption of~4 nVna and 'o e....A *e
self-improvement in educational standards in SAUs and among students.
4.2.3         University Progms. Satisfactory. Out of 35 colleges in the project SAUs, 32 have been
-A.+ A      iA An- A_ 4- Al I A T TA A _  A  CAI_1___ _ L_-__ - __-,  0_  ____ I-
MVA&W.Ut. rLuU1100LuaL *v an jrxo  La i uuw UUU, UJ.iUUrLi a oup-Lmvvi %-UJIunLU LuUa1L;r; I rbL. aUUutUw1Um
staff training undertaken during the project has resulted in improvements in teaching and research
- 5 -



capacities. This has also helped SAUs in obtaining more externally funded research projects. Investments in
university infrastructure, libraries, laboratories, teaching and research equipment, and campus facilities
have improved the teaching-learning environment. Course curricula for 11 UG and 32 PG programs have
been revised, updated and operationalized in all SAUs in the countrv. Practical, hands-on training as well
as local content have been emphasized. New courses designed to promote entrepreneurial skills and to
address emereg growth areas have been intrduced. An entirely internal system of evaluation has been
replaced by a system involving both intemal and extemal examination content as weUl as examiners,
resulting in irnproved obiectivity. transparency and uniformnity. Some weaknesses are also annarent: there is
over-investment in civil works, some divergence in perception of project benefits between students and
staff, weaknesses in management of lihrarvy cnmniuter renters annd other stndent-oriente facilities- weak
links of faculty and students with industry, and as yet insu-fficient changes in substance and style of
teaching dspnite adnntinn nf mnor instru.ctinna1 aPik
4.2.4         T lnivprcitipe hnv2p &50n tfriA tn imiwnu,p thI relev,   onvi &ndiatv of fPAii-atinn hu im,n.rnlng
the management systems through: formation of Broad Based Advisory Groups and expansion of the
University BoArd of Ma,nagemrent to give representation to the privatae ctor; delegation of fi"nacial pow-er
to Deans and Heads of Departments; introduction of financial management reforms based on independent
et -A;   n,n ,,rtan o^t,an nf efiiAant r_-   oQ nA ;f f.n.Q;tnl, a7,nl,,n4nn nV t+ffh4'arc, i.n, cu,ron+
0bSfl%,  fAWJ ~AAW.*AZAVL AA '.JA. vbflL  *fJ AW  AWJ  AfAlLSd1O JA9  Sw V Atttf  VSf  W.S445U%   U3  0UU55AW.
Educational Technology Development Cells and Student Counselling Centers have been financed under the
piujiJ..i.. A 000JuA.A t L  SU& .   e  by Gt*AeLfl  USS.UaMpWAG   arUA U ICY anIdJU S sS s uug   UWIAS
activities, combined with ICAR policies to improve standards of teaching/leaming, are helping to improve
Cfu4Ly aJJU d AVVale U!V of LU e eUU%A"LU LPVII jAU VLUeU, dOU LV piUUU%.,v gAaUU4elS WAUA greVate
self-confidence and better skill-mix. However, the full impact of the project based on labor market
indicators wil be UV &UVWo afte some tUie when the sL4Unts r ti ngW8 UnLder ULhe A^W/U"P1UVr.U udUWulu
system get employment.
4.2.5        In-Service Human Resource Development and Mana,-ement. Satisfactory. HRD and HRM
practices have been adopted and are beiUg isttutionalFized in project LDs. Database on employee skillS and
knowledge gaps has been developed and more systematic procedures for organization, delivery and
evaluation of tainring hbave been adoptea hne HRD targeis for SAU staff skill upgracation througn
overseas specialized tuining, overseas study tours and conferences, domestic computer and other
specialized utainings have been exceeded by i76-i4i2 %. However, only 9 faculty members have availed
of sabbatical leave against the target of 300. The targets for domestic and overseas training of LD staff
have been exceeded by i5-330 %. National and overseas training programs have enhanced faculty
competence as well as design and execution of training programs. New training centers have been
established and some existing ones have been rehabilitated, improving the training environment. Qualitative
assessments by Project Monitoring and Implementation Cells indicate that manpower efficiency has been
enhanced in the participating states, and interaction with farmers, industry and other sectoral clientele has
improved. For example, as a result of project interventions Andhra Pradesh has reported 32% savings
from reduced pesticide use. Similarly training of officers has been reported to have played a key role in
promoting protected cultivation of high value crops in four districts of Tamil Nadu. Another important
impact of the project has been improved coordination and inter-linkages between activities of various LDs
and SAUs. In some cases these cooperative developments are without precedent
4.2.6         Manpower Needs Assessment. Unsatisfactory. Manpower Advisory Councils have been
established in each project State and Manpower Needs Studies were completed for the project States in
1999. However, the national level study was not completed until October, 2001. Until now, the results of
these studies have not been used to develop coherent action plans based on recommendations of these
studies as envisaged in the project In general these studies do not appear to have fulfilled the envisioned
-6-



role of sponsoring rigorous labor market studies and monitoring of labor market trends with a view to
providing decision makers at national, state and university levels with technically sound information for
devising appropriate policies, academic programs, budgets and intake of students for optimizing the use of
scarce public resources. Overall evidence of their use in nlanninL7 and decision-making is not strong.
Therefore, implementation of this small component (0.4% of total base cost at appraisal) is rated as
"unsatisfactory"-
4.2.7         Pmirect interventinin have nlaveda key rnle in etn hlina TCAR tn imdertgke initiative. e
currently underway to improve quality and relevance of higher agricultural education in non-project SAUs
sand DUs by involving them in the accreditatinn prcness and by mainctreaming norms relating to studelnt
admissions, entrance tests, examinations and recruitment of faculty. Therefore, the impact of the project on
nomiriltlinl eiintatinn cvetdm in the rnh-unt ic likeplv tn hp fPlt rnnrp u,;M1P1 un thp Inner rim
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1         Training prograrns have substantially upgraded human capital in both SAUs and
government departments where no such investment had been made for a long time. Overseas training has
helped in acquisition of new research skills, orientation to new equipment and exposure to different
teaching and assessment systems. National training has helped both in research and teaching as well as in
promoting computer skills. There has been a substantial increase in the externally funded research projects
obtained by the faculty in the four SAUs. Infrastructure investments made under the project have
considerably enhanced the teaching/leaning/training atmosphere, making new forms of interactive as well
as independent learning possible. Three project SAUs have received Best State Agricultural University
Award' in recognition for their outstanding achievements in human resource development, research and
technology dissemination to the farmers. Strengthening and reorganization of ICAR(ED) into five sections,
including Education Development and Plarning, Accreditation and Human Resource Development, with
clearly defined roles and responsibilities has enormously augmented national capacity to set and enforce
norms and standards for higher education in the country, and to continue to guide its future development.
The new accreditation system has enabled SAUs to analyze their strengths and weaknesses. develoD
strategic plans for academic excellence, and formulate action plans for quality improvements in
agricultural education through involvement of all stakeholders. Administrative financial and governance
related changes, especially closer links with sectoral clientele, engendered in SAUs during the course of
nroiect implementation. are likely to continue and snread to other univeTwities thmuph nositive
demonstration effects. LDs have also experienced a cultural change in terms of their attitude to, and
nrgani7ation of persnnnel and trainino related matterm The id-eas and tephnimque nf HRn/TRM hnve hpen
appreciated and are being mainstreamed into departnent management and activities. Again, it is likely that
their infliience uwll snretd tn nther denirtmenk thrmiuh dp-mnnt-natinn effert. The nmipiet hnc thiic
impacted in a variety of ways on existing institutions although the concomitant incentive and intemal
anveann-e refnrmc reniirpt to re-ali7p the fill nntensal onftthese -chwnces hv.e not yet been ,rn Prtaln-en hu
the concerned institutions. The overall institutional development impact is rated as "substantial"
4.6 Environmental impact:
4.6.1         Corlre iiAr-ila have keen reiAC eA to inclAe co,wes on exn n r   -t issues and
enviromnent management. In particular, topics relating to agricultural sustainability, prevention of
- 7 -



pollution and environment degradation, integrated pest management, biodiversity and environmental policy
issues have been introduced. Beneficial environmental impact is also expected to be tealized from training
imparted to staff in public services regarding environmental sensitization and specific environment issues.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5=1.1         Steadv depreciatinn of unee aeainmt SDR nver the pnoiect period meant inrreased resmorce
availability in terms of rupees. Beyond this, there was no significant extraneous factor that affected project
in-pleTentntinn.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1         Project implementation in early stages (first two years) was hampered by delay in
providing adeauate budgetary supporL especially in sanctioning and release of finds, turnover of staff
(especially following change in state govermments) and delay in approving overseas training selection
scheme.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1         Delays in staffing, procurement, organization of training and special studies, and
implementation of agreed actions were the general sources of delay in project implementation. There was
lingering staff shortage at ICAR where failure to recruit long-term staff in time affected its coordination
capacity, including financial management and audit functions. The submission of audit reports was delayed
and resulted in discontinuance of SOE based disbursements in FY 1996-97, 1997-98, 1998-99 and
1999-2000. The audit disallowances due to lack of documentation and incorrect claims for advances and
salaries required recovery of approximately Rs. 77 million from the claims. Audit reports of ICAR for FY
1999-2000 indicated non-compliance with the reauirement of maintaining separate books and accounts for
the project. There was also a delay in the establishment of Manpower Cell at ICAR. Institutional inertia in
obtsining annroval for relevant actions and initiatives in SAUs and LDs further contributed to the delav.
More crucially, there were persistent delays related to procurement civil works and overseas training which
led to substantial under-utilization of credit in the early vears of the nroiect and necessitated the nmiect to
be extended by one year.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
5.4.1         Total proiect cost at appraisal was estimated at US$ 74.2 million. IDA was to provide a
credit of SDR 40.5 million, equivalent to US$ 59.5 million (90% of total costs net of taxes or 800/% of total
costs including taxes) and the rest was to be financed by GOI and the three state govemments. According
to latest estimates, total costs are US$ 65.1 million (88% of costs at appraisal).
5.4.2         Devaluation of rupee against US$ during the project period meant that the actual amount
available increased from Rq 2759=69 million at annraisal to Rs= 29R9=14 Millinn (IORO8% of GoStS at
appraisal). This led to more activities, consistent with pmject goals, being added especially in the latter half
Of the pnroect, alnng with snme restrnchtring of expenditure nn cAmponent. The am-ount spent nn ICAR
strengthening decreased from Rs 408 million at appraisal to Rs 298.96 milion (73 %). Expenditure on
iniuersity prnogrmc increAsePA frmm Rc 163a millin-n to Re 1Q;1 (id million (1 I°./) and on in-seprce
HRD/HRM increased from Rs 704.19 million to Rs 729.49 million (104%). Expenditure on manpower
n.eeds assess-ment decreaspA firom Rs 12.64 millinn to  0 Rs 9.8 mllion ('75,-/0.
q A a         Ana;net th9 tnt,l ,ailuhlP Tn A r   flit nf 4fT AfA r minlinn thA amnirnt A; hC,rA a QTYD
40.126 million (99.1%), and SDR 0.374 million is to be cancelled.
- 8 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1        Sustainability of project interventions ultimately depends upon the long term commitment
of GOI and States to maintain and enhance the quality of sectoral manpower and foster its more effective
use. Detailed stakehoider consultation during project preparation phase and participatory project design
have ensured that project objectives and key interventions have been "owned" by the participating
institutions (ICAR, SA-us, DUs and LDs), with attempts or plans to undertake other activities supportive
of project goals. There is government support for the program of change initiated by the project at both the
Central level (for ICAR) and relevant State levels (for SAUs and LDs) through attempts to mainstream
project-led initiatives into regular government policy. Sufficient committed funds are not available at this
stage for full-scale continuation of activities but there are govermment proposals to financing of project
activities through Central budgetary resources and State Annual Plans. Changes in institutions and
procedures, including management and administrative changes, introduced by the project have been partly
internalized and the relevant stakeholders are in favor of continuing the program. For long-term
sustainability though, it is important to address issues of governance reform and individual performance
incentives. Finally, there is support for continuation from relevant sectoral clientele, including staff from
SAUs and LDs who report a greater sense of achievement and job satisfaction. Overall, therefore, the
sustainability of the project is rated as "likely". The likelihood of a follow-up project further enforces the
incentives to continue project activities.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2. i       WAR. Necessary budgetary provision has already been made in the remainig period of
Ninth Plan to continue ICAR(ED)'s activities of overseeing and strengthening higher agricultural education.
Planning Commission has given approval to budgetary provision for continuation of accreditation activities
in the post-project period. All-India Competitive Examinations for 15% and 25% seats in UG and PG
programs respectively, have been institutionalized by setting up an Examination Cell in kCAR(ED)),
financed by creation of a revolving fimd using the examination fee paid by candidates. Regarding training,
15% budget of ICAR institutes is planned to be devoted to HRD and a Rs 13 million development grant
will be annually made to SAUs for faculty taining nationally and internationally. ICAR(ED) has
institutionalized a system for conducting 140 training courses of 3-4 weeks' duration annually in the leading
institutes for updating skills of scientists from SAUs and ICAR institutes.
6.2.2        Universities. SAUs plan to continue beyond the project period various institutions set up
under the project such as Broad Based Advisory Groups, Educational Technology Development Cells,
Manpower Advisory Councils and Student Placemnent Cells. There is scope to enhance the effectiveness of
these changes by mainstreaming these institutions through inclusion in relevant university statutes (acts,
rules, regulations) and government directives/orders. In this regard, ICAR(ED) has already appointed
committees to develop policy documents relating to govemance and financial structure of universities which
will form the basis of necessary reforns.
6.2.3        Teaching quality improvements are expected to be sustained through emphasis on
continued development of teaching material and skills and use of student feedback. At present, sufficient
eamaiked funds are not available for recurrent expenses relating to project-financed buildings, equipment
and other facilities and for a systematic program for assessing and meeting future training needs. Efforts
are being made to broaden the universities' income base but external support from the State funds remains
-9-



crucial. The proposals submitted by the SAUs to the State governments under Annual Plan and Tenth Plan
are at different staOes of processing. Some financial supporn wiU bue avaiable to SAUs in he formC of
catch-up and development grants from ICAR.
6.2.4         Line Departments. The importance of HRD/HRM activities and the need for their
continuation have been appreciated by tne LDs and steps to sustain them are being initiated. ine
Government of Andhra Pradesh has approved and implemented the significant project-initiated reforms on
transfer policy, performance appraisal and updating of job descriptions. Tiraning policy with regard to
implementatiori of training activities and training impact assessment has also been approved by the
government. Project States are planning to continue activities of !iKD cells and training institutes through
suitable staff redeployment. Attempts are being made to secure funds necessary for operation and
maintenance of training insttutes, hostels, equipment and conduct of training programs. These recurrent
expenditures are expected to be financed mainly from State Annual Plans, though the likely extent of this
support is not clear in the current fiscal climate.
6.2.5         The Momtorng Cell within ICAR(ED) will continue to monitor the adoption of relevant
norms and standards in the SAUs. The accreditation status of universities cornes up for review every five
years, providing a major opportunity to appraise the status and performance of universities. Some
self-monitoring within SAUs and LDs is expected to occur following systems and procedures of impact
assessment and evaluation of teaching and training courses introduced under the project. A follow-up
project is highly desirable. This project has demonstrated that through focus on human capital and relevant
institutions and processes, dynarnism and a sense of mission can be introduced in erstwhile marginalized
and poorly-performing public sector institutions.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1         The project was identified in 1991 as part of a portfolio program planning exercise
between the Government of India and the World Bank. It was appraised in Aunust 1994 and the Credit
Agreement became effective on August 4, 1995. The project was originally scheduled to close on 31
Dermnher 2000 hut was exte-nded hy one year until 31 Decemher 2001. The prniect was in line with (r1O1q
long term vision of comprehensive development of agricultural human capital in the country. With regard
tn prnoect. design, lack of incentives and lack of rapacity are ge-ne"^riay the twro mnior cnntraints to
efficient performance of agricultural human capital. The project focused mostly on capacity enhancement
thrnwruh tfrain'nGtv anid relat te  ,"wpetmpnta hvt AMi nnt aou adeq,Aanl- att onl4n" to or ohtan aAnn,,at
commitment for appropriate restructuring of performance incentives in implementing institutions.
7.1.2        In hindsight, the project was over-optimistic in assessment of capacity and readiness of the
govermment and implementing agencies. Many of the assurances obtained at negntation such as exnanminn
of Board of Management and setting up of Broad Based Advisory Groups in SAUs, provision of earmarked
maintenance finds and delegatinn of adequate financial nowerq to )ernutv Direntnr General iAirntinn),
ICAR, did not materialize within the agreed time-frame. The capacity of implementing agencies to identify
thpir nrioritipc and ne-As, antd malep wnrkaleP annuial plans fnr prrcurPmPnt financial managpmPnt snA
training, was over-estimated. Project design was rendered too complex by attempting to initiate and
manage a process of change in both AT Te anAd T Ds,th thA;r izAALpr A#fAn f,r;n-on;ol  4..n S
cultures and objectives. Monitoring and evaluation aspects of the project were not satisfactorily
develop    AAn unfpnti..ted   list. of  inctnAs  v  ,A .A -.th-t vn",,_+ + O
substantiation/quantification. Lack of benchmarks of pre-project status meant that assessing incremental
- 10 -



project impact was difficult. Finally, project design did not provide an appropriateframework to check
coherence between various project activities undertaken and the project objectives. SAUs, rightly, have a
number of goals and objectives (e.g., teaching, research, extension) which can have different priorities
when looked at through the lens of Banks CAS and governrnent's priorities. A consistent mechanism does
not seem to have been developed to justify various activities (e.g., type and location of overseas training or
investments in specific items of infrastructure and equipment) in the context of these development priorities.
Overall, therefore, the Bank performance in lending is rated as "unsatisfactory".
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1         Te earlier supervisionr m-issionS Were over-patieLt WitU delays and insuf,ciently proactive
in adequately resolving emerging implementation difficulties. Given the substantial lags in realizing
outcomes firUm  uman capil investmernLs, Uts auversely aflfeute acievement of project obuctuves durung
its lifetime. The supervisions did not also adequately focus on developing and standardizing indicators for
assessin-g de-velopment effecu-veness oi project interventions. The ski mix of some supervision missions
did not include an education specialist. The quality of supervision for FY00 was rated by QAG as
"marginally s-atisfactory". Tne later missions focused on credit uuiization, largely tirougn emphasizing
procurement and civil works; placement of trainees overseas; improved management of project accounts;
achievement of project objectives and sustaminability; and supervised completion of self impact assessment
studies and other special studies. Considerable progress was made during the latter half of the project
period which helped bring the project to an orderly closure on December 31, 200i. in general, the
predominant focus of supervision missions on getting structural and process-related changes underway can
be understood as an attempt to ensure the establishment of necessary pre-conditions for producing quality
improvements and developmental impact. Given the lack of baseline indicators and initial implementation
delays, it was also difficult to devise reliable markers of quality, especially at a late stage. For instance, in
many cases no batch of students had as yet graduated under the new/improved educational system, making
it difficult to apply labor market based indicators for assessing quality improvements. Overall, in view of
the complexity of project design, the number of different implementing agencies involved, the wide-ranging
agenda of institutional and policy changes, and the initial weaknesses in implementation capacity of
partners, the Bank supervisions did a credible job of steering the process forward and ensuring due
implementation of most of the envisaged activities. Consequently, the quality of supervision is rated as
"satisfactory".
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
7.3.1         The central project vision of establishing and enforcing norns and standards and
upgrading the teaching-learning environment in order to reverse long term decline in agricultural human
resources has been realized. Bank supervision has helped to build up, over time, considerable management
and implementation capacity which has been particularly useful in project implementation in the later
stages. The project has caught attention of agricultural educators and has generated interest in the
Borrower and implementing agencies for a follow-up project. Implementing agencies found Bank's
responses and supervisions helpful and constructive. The Bank's overall performance is, therefore,
assessed as "satisfactory".
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1         The Government of India and the Bank envisioned this as the first of series of projects to
develop agricultural human resources in order to boost sectora; performance. Financial and institutional
support, especially complementary measures for strengthening various agencies and departments as well as
full agreement regarding reform matrices, were offered Tne project was partially prepared with tecnnicai
assistance from DHV Consultants BV of the Netherlands. Subsequently, ICAR and the participating States
-11 -



prepared project proposals which formed the basis for assessing suitability for possible Bank financing.
l uJGL was pr-pe L V.aJFIaU UJY ULt IVaLL& iLLL J%AUe 1997t. DUMLIUWVL JMIloILJJa"%;V lb L4VU az "UaXisLi';y
75 C(rovernment .. ;plemen.-a.'-Inpew--or..r,nce:
7.5.1         There were delays initially in securing adequate budgetary support from the government,
especiallxy tip;i h rgaord to the- can"cu%;ntyg and releasep of fimd-s t.,Eove of staff(especilly, f-11-,A".L-"g
in state governments) and delay in approving overseas training selection scheme. There was clear
exp-+a+;_                       . A ;  QAI   , A I-AAA1 ('J .T -11 ao.A ,0AA0  A; .d -A  A_-+. ,A
t.tJtttLFl wv_ jJjS vL  fvwv. - (.f 9VA rtfl LJ'.. V-lC -_  *-U4IJ   jVUf-' O'.J VWJI.U  -LIW
establish AEC with statutory powers. This has not been done. However, it is now proposed that the
A __A.-*:^n Boz    - ,es^wi,-e_ zs pe; pa-z 2() of th Schev- C LA-to +_ I.C Tr^ D A-elet shov' be_A 
ACtNtMit.I lCUIJLL   CS~JL LLt.L   00 pt.  FO.LQ Z 11A) 1)1 (Ut. UC.ItUUEIt. IA) Ult.  CLS5L .t.ILIUt. L, alULUlI  LJIt
invested with appropriate statutory powers. In all other areas the government has been supportive of the
proJttL and ias L aLt pr n  AJIJ.UILALt LI) GtUoL4LLAr jJIUJtroeL ac.UVIUt.. 'JEL UGalGLL-.e, goV,wUJJ%IILL UupltAILUtUIioLULL
performance is rated as "satisfactory".
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.l         The implementing agenies got off to a slow steart due to eAlays in 4finA availhbt1,
procurement, staffing, and procedural, organizational and managerial weaknesses and rigidities. However,
o,er. i4r.-.e nlnn".-.e mnattv,tio^l and poni^y c nhones vae im +nt vd1,ced in terr^g of nco4nn ion  of oneoi ,.n44e
and cells, organizational restructuring, policy changes on examination, admissions, staff transfer and
p  +...otien. T. ple.,..enms atin, Meffo.. n rd        . Ao,mIn,.,me+  of '  e
remained inadequate (e.g., networking of libraries or intensive use of electronic information technology,
zpLVIWIt. LLLLILS" vzn WILL      chaneIALLsL"LLut.3 Lt AL beLl fu" van'gJe o I  inuLLL3 L  uauJnJ and LL
capital). However, as the various project interventions came together and began to produce some impact,
ueLL impleumleni:ng agencies dUi raLYaL.Lt UemsIelveIs.3 anU, Uy UL, VLU VI UofL IJe pro%eL pe-.oIJu, comLUpIt.LteU UILsa
of the planned activities, undergoing, in the process, significant organizational, institutional and cultural
ChWauges. VrGwlI, UerevIUfr, Uhe peforIIVuiIILLL VI 1lJWUVUIlLIL, 4gVLL%b lb IsLaU Ub biUbiaLLU[y
7.7.1          For the Borrower and implementing agencies, the project was challenging in terms of its
nn.rna+s.nV o4nn, afnrnn..n+nnn c+,M,ra . nnl.-rA lk-nn-..nl -mn44- - ^rA... +t
I9  S^W A w-=^S S  -    6V,-    .-W.-M      -CleS MGwW  1W MO VFTWEIV- P s M .1  W^~ 
complement and support proposed investments in human capital. Although there were initial difficulties,
and hence their perfornance is rated as "satisfactory".
8. Lessons Learned
8.1    Following lessons arise from review of the project implementation experience:
*      Human capital-centered investments in public institutions can have a catalytic effect. Positive
changes in staff motivation. commitment and re-orientation of attitude towards work are reported in the
project SAUs and LDs. Following these changes, staff in these institutions are using existing organizational
resources more effectively, thus unlocking extra sources of efficiency gain from "sunk" resources and
magnifying project impact. Since the development landscape is characterized by a large number of
poorly-performing public institutions, with massive "sunk" investments, this lesson has considerable
general validity.
*      Complementarity between capacity enhancement and incentive reform. Lack of capacity and
inrentiv.e t nrrfnrm sre twol nrn-insil rnnqtrint' nn effe'tiv.e ltili7Rtinnnfhilmn pnrnitbI The p,n,Pj<t
targeted capacity enhancement since it required external funding assistance and involved measurable,
deliverahle oultnts. Tin the nhsence nf for cs nn sitnhale re_strucrtring of =prformnce incrntives though, a
-12 -



return to pre-project situation can occur, with investments in new human and physical capital becoming
part of the existing, sunk pool without much change in performance over time. It is, therefore, important for
project design to engage fully with issues of internal performance incentives, wherever human capital
investment is made.
*      Governance reform. "champions of change" and sustainabilitv. To sustain performance-related
behavioral changes - the essential goal of the project - after project investments and supervisions cease,
rewuires presence of durable constituencies for reform. Creating such constituencies requires delegation.
decentralization and empowerment of different functionaries as well as institutionalization of key reforms
(e.g., changes in universitv rules/statutes that give genuine voice to nrivate sector representatives or "teeth"
to student evaluations). Project design needs to devise ways to initiate and elicit such governance and
institutional reform, perhaps by phasing in nroiect investments which are exnlicitlv linked to realization of
agreed "milestones" of governance reform.
*      A strong M&E system is required to complement periodic supervisions and provide a reliable,
eaninnr cniiaP nf n,ni ,.pt v tnraCee gnA ite ApAVlnvwvnnt pnimrait Tn v.r+ilar tho9 ,aisltntih, ,Armia,t
objectives need to be translated into specific, measurable and time-marked indicators. Also, a common
rpnrftignc frampxnvlrl nAeed t. ho bAonntpA fnr iuso bxr "nt..el onA ext.e-a! ;.r.upact onn.nnt  A;.u.Ac -A 'oy
supervision missions. This builds a consistent, continuous picture and allows comparative analysis, over
time and o-o^ss v,arioms implement.ing agencies, of the implementation expe.ence. Ths can  a
timely and appropriate basis for corrective actions and generate various lessons. Finally, a baseline survey
;O fAl-. A  A-+f;A, lk-  AP             -f-lA A IAUJA.  At r.rAJAAf-UALUAAA  flAr- -  -o +UAOIJ 4   - -.  A  -11 -JAt   Ae V rU
as the quality of outputs and activities.
*      Objectives and activities. In general, a variety of different project activities can be instrumentally
linked (Airwetly or indi-etly)t to the pr,ject objctive of enhancing quality and relevan.ce Where projert
design leaves choice of individual items to be financed to be made during the course of implementation,
niny eo*anan nfp.,antA       -11nraec   -thc rnecoIaA ni.kat+.- -ro4-o --A Inlk. Aau,alnnA for
*clar sJit of expected         ave!                 objel S- J -.L%.-.a .e   t b  d el.fo
screening and ranking various items to be included in implementation, so that they can be fully justified as
-.4-4n,, r.eeds, ir r;l-tin Ia +- o  obc+ ieasoc- , we" as (TnT r - A +U- IQ-t. Bank -  -c A s+t-ees.
*      T ijJ"'pICCULNUQU Minays. JLLn 1uL11141u cLwu pJ1ujuES iL isL Cuwai Lu UWvVAILWou UijMIIUMUMLe UOUi
difficulties since they delay training-related activities, adversely affecting realization of project development
UUJob UVes UULLIng ULUW prLUJA.tL iiieULii. V1Uo eLaUIIUUUn ne,W  U b Ur,itU LU veUnw  il unplUien Iiung
agencies are in a state of readiness and better prepared with relevant staff capacity, workable annual plans,
and adequaUe turining in financiai nianagmntit, procurement and contract maagement.
*      An effective central nodal agency with administrative and financial functions is required for
effective coordination and management of multi-state projects. The project authorities need to follow a
pro-active approach in addressing financial management and procurement issues. Financial management
and procurement inputs during project preparation, appraisal and implementation are necessary for
effective project implementation. These inputs need to be used in an integrated way for project
management and need not be limited to fiduciary issues.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower comments on the ICR have been received, and these endorse the ICR except for U ratings for
- 13-



'Quality at Entry', Manpower Needs Assessment' and 'Lending' as per details given below:
9.1    Quality at entry
9.1.1 Although it is true that the baseline benchmarks of quality were not codified, the review team was
provided several benchmarks which were quite visible. Similarly, benchmarks were available for LD
activities. Against these benchmarks, progress of the project could be assessed. It is true that assessment
of quality of education is a difficult task over a short period but not so difficult to arrive at indicators.
Therefore, quality at entry was satisfactory. All the project partners have complied with the reforns put in
place under the project. There was good coordination between the Bank and the project partners, and
monitoring and evaluation was done regularly.
9.2    Manpower Needs Assessment
9.2.1 Manpower Needs Assessment is very complex through which an attempt was made to develop
models for forecasting labor market trends to arrive at apnropriate policv/decisions at SAU/State level. To
the best of our knowledge, nowhere in the world, admissions to universities are based on Manpower Needs
Assessment. The variables are so many and their influence so varied that at times it is difficult to canture
nuances of all together to arrive at unified and accurate predictions. The stakeholders are largely swayed
bv market trends. which are fluid and dvnamic and are subiect to mainr changes in resnonse to existing
and emerging activities at short-term intervals. Therefore, the major objective of the Manpower Needs
Assessment was hasically to find sectnrs where there is shortage of skilled manpower so that inrtitltions
could overcome this shortage by appropriate adjustments. Another important factor that affects manpower
pnlnning is the Govermmpntnolic-ie and buhiaettnrvnnmpnrt under nihlic system  The .Mnnnvwer Needs
Assessment could not be rated unsatisfactory. The project partners have already taken steps to implement
,vpanwrnc.mAi9hnsa;n of a.s   iffiAes
9.3.1  The Bank and several periodic review missions, including Mid-Term Review, in our opinion, have
been eXteding pSort af d conducting =g and eva-l     on very s            T Io opinon, the
Bank performance in lending was satisfactory.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
;0. A ddiAio.,a_1   ..
IU. UUMLUM1M &UIUr-maUUUU
See Annex 7
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Indicator             Projected in SAR/PAD|            Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Market/demand driven orientation  Not specified      - Stakeholder involvement in SAU governance,
in management of higher education                       curriculum reform and career guidance
ana proauction o0 better quaiity                        - Courses updated with more practicai,
graduates compatible with market                        employment-oriented content
ul-wo                                                    - r ^luriiL In i umiulum ucvwlupmmnt with up to
15% increase in local content in UG programs
I -Studeont rn,aluint.n and feedback pna,tially
2 PqtAlbishment of acereditatinn nystem INot qnecifipd   T Anntion    n- nqttItnrAv) nnereditntinn svytem hv
to set and enforce norms/standards,                     project SAUs and its mainstreaming to other SAUs
resulting in higher quality of education                - 3 project SAUs given Best SAU/ICAR award
and faculty development                                 - Improvement in education quality
- Improved performance of graduates in competitive
examinations and with employers
- Improvement in quality of extension work of LDs
3. Improvements in quality of     Not specified          - Improvement in teaching and research capability
teaching-learning environment and                       - Changes in presentation and interaction in
management of education institutions                     classrooms (in SAUs and LDs)
and LDs                                                  - Strengthening of examination system through more
| | g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~exLerria: corten. t
- Some improvement in recruitment quality through
t.rcomapetitive ovanunatmns at UCT1-, PG and t hi-or 
faculty level
- Imnroved learning resources and beter campus I
facilities
- Some improvement in training facilities and in
quality and relevance of training in LDs
- Some improvement in financial and administrative
t                   |                     | ~~~~~~~~~~~managementl
4. Streamlining of public investment in  Manpower Needs  - Studies delayed; desired impact yet to be
higher education                  Assessment Studies to  realized
guide manpower-related  - Some improvement in efficiency of grant
policies, budgeting ana  utilization by SAUs
curricular reform      - Better planning and implementation of SAU
5. Strengthening of the capacity of  Not specified       I - HRD/HRM culture introduced and being
Istat  r.g     d .-  -ainseaed
manage human resources                                   - Enhanced training capacity and some improvement
ijn interaction with colleanues; farmers and industrv
- Some improvement in work culture and staff
l                   l                     | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~motivation 
- Database on employee skills and knowledge gaps
- More systematic procedures for identifying training
l                                  l_____________________________  j ___________________ [needs and  organizing  and  evaluating  training  l
- 5-



Output Indicators
indicator                   Projected in                 Actu-uatest EWum2|e
smup"     I                                              ILN~WL  UII
SAR/PAD      lI____A____A.-A____A_________-
esab,u:lse wt stautaory powersci      30 2000 eFtbise  yJn  o  on;Ae     e .dno    e:-beb
P%f.U1U. rU,tLU1       kL /AVf' .u LF. V,.1.... k.. T...UU; 1 T.L...0,
established with statutory powers      30, 2000            ICAR-appointed National Committee of
Academicians on Acrerditation October 1999;
proposal to invest Accreditation Board with relevant
I_________________ _  I__  statutory vowers
Accreditation Board to be established to set  Established and fully  - Accreditation Board established on March 15,1996
up norms and accredit universities and their operational by  I- 32 (out of 35) colleges in 4 SAUs accredited in
academic programs                      September 30,1995   August, 2001
- Accreditation of other SAUs underway
Adoption of common, revised academic   Not specified        Implemented for all UG programs in 1998-99 and for
norms and uniform academic calendar                         PG programs in 2000-01
At least 15% PG seats to students from other Policy adopted by  25% of PG admissions done through All-India
states selected through an All-India   October 15, 1995     Entrance Exams
examination
National Talent Search Examination      1998                1998
Quality based recruitment              Not specified       1- 5% of UG admissions done through All-India
Entrance Exams
- Adiiiission o ai; SAU de US UA Uugii  Lwte-;ev;I
Common Entrance Test
= JPRs a.nd National Talent ScholarshP.s u,,sed to
reduce academic in-breeding
- Assistant Professors in SAUs selected through
National Eligibility Test and majority of HoDs, Deans
and Directors through direct, competitive process
Education Technology and Development   BY March 31, 1996  | Established
Cells established in SAUs              (    arc
Establishment of library and information  By March 31, 1997  | Unfinished
|exchange linkages between ICAR and SAUs |                 l_l
Core teaching staff recruited for at least five |By March 31, 1996  Norns for core teachers framed, training and
years exclusively for teaching and trained                 tenure-continuity provided with delay
IadequatelyIII
SAUs introduce student evaluation of all  Date not specified  System partially introduced
acourses- contentand methods           [                   I      pia       t  u
|SAU Staffupgradation through -                            I
: overseas study tours, conferences and  14u                Jil
workshops
domestic study tours                  :                    :0°
:domesticconferences/                  :415                 :316
overseas specialized short term and medium:134           | 669
terfm training
: domestic specialized training         223                 :1945
: domestic computer training           : 87                 :1316
1. sabbatical leave                     1:300              1:9
- 16 -



Indicator               lProjected in SAR/PAJA            Actual/Latest Estimate          l
Curriculum reform                       Not specified         - All the 11 UG and 32 PG programs revised
- Increase of vocational, practical and local
Icontent         a
New courses                             Not specified         In bio-technology, agri-business management,
t computer applications, environmental issues, etc
Reform of financial management system of  Financial management Unfinished; studies completed in time but review
SA'us                                   studes w De           deiayeu
undertaken and SAUs,
Stats and .- A f
agree a common
strateav bv June 3t)
1997 for discussion at
|M TR                |  _  _  _ _  __  _  _  _  _ _l__      _  _
| Expansion of Boards of Management of   By December 31, 1995 Done (except in CCSHAU, Haryana) with delay
SAUs to give more private sector        l                    l
representation
Establishment of Broad Based Advisory   By September 30, 19951 Established with delay
Group comprising 25-30 private sector
representatives in each SAU                                  I                                            I
Upgrading of teaching materials         Not specified         10 customised, locally relevant texts
published/under print and 25 more in preparation
; Over 1000 manuals developed in SAUs and
DUs
Training in LDs -
domestic training                       2010                  8852
t, V  S O~aO  hA  LhIhh*~ mflT2 .,.,V
study tours
Estud;y.met of                              .,pn re!!s  No! Wm  iAf  Cels estahlish.ed with delay after project
effectiveness
T Use of MR M prn^edinres               INot snerified       I HARM introduced and being mainstreamed into
I  LD activities
Manpower Advisory Councils established in BY June 30.1995     Established
each participating State                      reslt
Manpower studies and surveys to be       Study results w lead to  Complefion of studies delayed
commissioned to provide basis for decisions  annual action plans by  Little evidence of their use in resource allocation
on curriculum revision, student intake and  States
other human resource allocation issues in
SAUs                                                         I___________
-17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Constq hv Comnonents (in UJS  millinn enuivalent)
Proiect Comnonent        J Appraisal Estimate  I Actuanlfstest Estimate  I Percentage of 1
|Appraisal |
ICAR Strengthening                        10.6         1         6.1                 57.5      1
University Programs                      44.3          |         43.8          [     98.9
In-Service HRD/HRM               r        18.9         I          15.0         I     79.4
Manpower Need Assessment                  0.3                     0.2                66.7
TOTAL                                    74.2                    65.1                87.7
* Note- NRF = Not Bank Financed (includes elements nrovidfed inder nzrnille sn-finanring nrnred11req
consultants under trust funds, any reserved procurement and any other miscellaneous items). The Procurement
arrangements for items listed under "Othee" and details of the items listed as NBF need to be explained in footnote
to the table.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US $ million equivalent)
component I      Appraisai Esumate    I    ActuailLatest Esffmate  I       %I. 0o Appraisal
ICB |NCB       I Other'    ICB      NCB      Other'     ICB _fNCB         Other'
ICivilWorks    I  -      11.2  1   1.7    _        -    _ 15.7   _ 3.6   1  -   I  140.2  I  211.8
11.4    3.9   1      9.9   8.8       8.4       9.4      77.2     215.4     94.9
Trraining      I.-   I    -       21.0       -         -       15.0       -                71[- 7 .4
scellaneousI-1           -        15.1     4- -              4  .2   J    -                27.81
rotal          j 11.4 [  15.1  j  47.7   j  8.8   J  24.1   i  32.2  j  77.2   [ 159.6  j   67.5
Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operation costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local governments unit.
Project Fin.anc-ing by Componentu (in US $ milon eq-uivalent)
Cumpuneni I        Ap praisZa  smuiate   I   ActuuallUei[ Esuzmate  I   rerceniage ufAppraisai
|    Bank      Government       Bank     [ Government      Bank       Government
strengthening
.VIYeliLY   I     35.8    I     8.8          36.97         6.9          103.1
ograms          _     _      _      _      _     _      _      _l_I
".-s.IcW           15.           I Q.         11.     | 1    .1          70. 'I        83.4 A
a,-o~, V ~  A .J.A.      J.U IlAl.7           I     0.1           o.J            r
Ee- .t I      I            I                                                      II  I  22
Lsessment     l            l             l             l            l             l   _I
|TOTAL             59-5          14.7          3.7     |    11.4    |    90.2     i    77.8
-18 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
-19-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Stage of -Project Cycle                  No. of Perons andSp,   t           |, SpPerfbrnance Rating
(eg.2I:cr. ....                      iw, ! FX,XS, e.), LJ1p;VUrUWLIUUII 1JVVIUJIiILUIL
Month/ear      Count           Specialty                       Prggress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
09/91-03/1993
7   Agncultunst (1)
05-06/1993                       Agr. Edn. Specialist (1)
HRD Specialist (1)
09/1993                           Inst Dev. Specialist (1)
09/1993-10/1993                   Agriculturist (1)
Agriculturist (1)
Agr. Edn. Specialist (1)
i;2/i993                     4   1  PSeiitl
Agriculturist (1)
Agr. Edn. Specialist (1)
Edn. Management Specialist (1)
HRD Specialist (1)
Appraisal/Negotiatfon
05/1994 -                     S   Agr. Edn. Specialist (1)
06/1994                          |HRD Specialist (1)
Economist (1)
Inst Dev. Specialist (1)
Edn. Management Specialist
08-09/1994                    5   Agriculturist (1)
Agr. Edn. Specialist (1)
Procurement Specialist (1)
dun. Management Speciaiist (i)
Economist (1)
Supervision 
Superviso   Supervision I                 4   Agriculturist (1)                    S              S
Project Launch                   Agr. Res. Specialist (1)
Workshop          |               Inst Dev. Specialist (1)
n   i 0- ne                      I fl.....(l'.
|Rupervisinn II               4   I Agriculturist (P)                  S              S
04-05/1996       ||Inst Dev. Specialist (1)
Agr. Res. Specialist (1)
Procurement Engineer (1)
Supervision III               3   Agriculturist(l)              j      S (S
12/96-01/97                      Agr. Res. Specialist (1)
SupervisioI S t Dev. Sp(c1al)st(i) I)
|        ~~~SupervisionlIV  |3 |Agriculturist (l)                         |         S    |      S



Agr. Research Specialist (1)
Superv   n VInst Dev. Specialist (1)
|SupervisionV     |7 |Agriculturist (2)
08/1998                           Financial Analyst (2)
Mid Tern Review                   Procurement Engineer (1)
Inst. Dev. Specialist (1)
Agr. Edn. Management
Specialist (1)
Supervision vi                o   Agricuiurist (i)
03/1999                          Agr. Research Specialist (1)
A - ICA
As5L. lUn LMnarUWgcLmnt
Specialist (1)
Lnct npv t.rDe .piaQt tl
Financial Management
I Specialist (,2r)11
Supervision VII               2   Agriculturist (1)                    S              S
08/1999                          Inst. Dev. Specialist (1)
Supervision VIII              4   Agriculturist (2)                    S              S
11-12/1999                       Agr. Edn. Management
Specialist (I)
MSL LeCV. Speciaisi (;)
Supervision IX                4   Agriculturist (2)                    S              S
05t2000                           1. A r-LM JV L&UarVagesen  lL
Specialist (1)
Inst DeV. Specialistn(1)
|   Supervision X  |          5 |Agriculturist (2)              |                     S
11e1 -!2/2 0 X                    Aar Research Specialist (1)
Financial Management Specialist
I                  1              1~~         ~~                ~       ~      ~~~~~~(1)11
Procurement Specialist (1)
Supervision XI                3   Agriculturist (1)                    S              S
04-05/2001                       Agr. Edn. Specialist (1)
Financial Management Specialist
(1)
Supervision XII               2   Agriculturist (1)             |         S
10/2001                          Agr. Research Specialist (1)
ICR
11-12/2001                   5     Economist(I)                        S              S
Agr. Edn. Specialist (1)
Agricuiturist (1)
Human Development
SOpeiaiUst (I)
Financial Management
e- pl (!)-
-21 -



(b) Staff.
Stage of Pioject Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate  -
li                  |     ~~~~~~~~No- Siaff weeks  I" 2 : UgS '000).
Identification/Preparation              88.1                       199.3
IAprstinallMeantiatinn                     2          I               45
Supervsion                            144.93                       324.9
T frRr                    9I7                                        9.1
Total                      |          263.77         |             578.3
- 22 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU-Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
U Macro policies                         O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
O Sector Policies                        O H   OSUOM      O N   O NA
O Physical                               O H   OSUOM      O N   O NA
O Financial                              O H   O SU * M   O N   O NA
Oi Institutional Development             O H   0 SU O M   O N   0 NA
rO Environmental                         O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
Social
O3 Poverty Reduction               O H  O SU O     M   I v'  I V'A
O Gender                           OH OSUOM ON *NA
Oi Otner (rsease specify)         (D H     SU O M   OJ) N  O ivA
O Private sector development             0 H   O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
Oi Public sector management              O) H  O. D SU O M ivi   N  O h'A
O Other (Please specify)                 O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
-23-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                              Rating
LI Lending                                       OHS OS       * u   O HU
O Supervision                                    OHS OS       O u   O HU
Ei Overaii                                       OHS OS       O U   O HU
6   Rr.2 B o,.  na,.fnr per, no.cRaig
n PreDaration                                    n)HS as      n u    ) HU
O Government implementation performance          O HS OS      0 U   0 HU
O Implementation agency performance              O HS OS      O U   0 HU
O Overall                                        OHS Os       O u   O HU
-24 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.    ICR Mission Aide-Memoire
2.    Eight Proiect Completion Reports from:
(i) Acharya NG Ranga Agricultural University, Andhra Pradesh (ANGRAU)
(ii) Chaudharv Charan Singh A2ricultural University, Harvana (CCSHAU)
(iii) Tarnil Nadu Agricultural University, Tamil Nadu (TNAU)
(iv) Tamil Nadu Veterinarv and Animal Sciences Universitv (TNVASU)
(v) Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Delhi (ICAR)
(vi) Project Monitoring and Imnplementation Cell. Andhra Pradesh (PMIC-AP)
(vii) Project Monitoring and Implementation Cell, Haryana (PMIC-H)
(viii) project Monitoring and Imnlementation Cell- Tamil Nadu (PMTC-TN)-
3.    Twelve self-impact assessment reports and brochures from: ANGRAU, CCSHAU,
TNAU,TNVT AS,ITCAR, PMTC-AP,PMirC-Ha nd PMTC-TN
4.    Monitoring and Impact Assessment of AHRDP on behalf of ICAR (Edcil, August 2001)
5.    Pvnrptt VnPrntinnIl Plan arCARpi'pmlw 2nn1)
6.    AHRDP Implementation Completion Report (ICAR, December 2001)
-25 -



Additional Annex 8.Bo rrower's Evaluation (Unedited)
RecogUzZng tUe cuenta role of aiculture in acceleraiUng economic growth, Cvi0 accorded high priority o
human resource development in agriculture immediately after independence. The present self-sufficiency in
food grains has Ilagely been possible due o so-und goverirntnt policies focusing on development of skilled
human resources which not only developed new technologies and refined them, but also quickly
disseminaied these o we farming community. Increase in food grain production from 1 i miliion tns in
1950-51 to about 210 million tons in 2000-01 is a remarkable accomplishment. Similar progress has been
made in mea4, milk fish, fruit and vegetable production. Tnis agricultural transformation has been possible
mainly as a result of development of skilled human resources by a large network of SAUs. Today each
major state of india has at least one SAU. Present National Agricultural Research and Education System
consists of four of deemed universities (IARI, NDRI, CIFE, IVRI), one Central Agricultural University for
North-Eastern Region and 33 SAUs.
Much of the agricultral growth observed in different states has largely been due to technical backstopping
provided by the SAUs. To harness this potential, the states and ICAR provided adequate support for the
development of infrastructure in SAUs during 1960s and 1970s. During the formative years of these SAUs
( up to early 1970s), USAID provided funds for advanced training of faculty in the leading universities of
USA. However, with the passage of time, the donor support for human resource development declined.
There was a wide spread consensus during late 1980s, before the start of the project, that the quality of
graduates coming out from SAUs did not match the requirements of the new challenges of global
technological changes and economic liberalization.
In view of the importance of new technology development for bringing economic benefits to the
practitioners of farming, it was imperative to ensure quality education by removing the constraints that have
contributed to lowering of agricultural education standards. Realizing the importance of quality assurance
in agricultural education towards agricultural development and moderization of agricultural sector, the
World Bank supported AHRDP to initiate the process of improving the quality and relevance of higher
agricultural education and in-service training programs, and strengthening the capacity of participating
states (Andhra Pradesh, Haryana and Tanil Nadu) to develop and manage their agricultural human
resources.
Project Development Objectives
* Improving the quality and relevance of higher agricultural education and in-service training programs
*   Strengthening the capacity of participating states to develop and manage their aaricultural human
resources
The project objectives were very relevant and remained unchanged during the life of the project.
Project Components
ICAR Strengthening. At the centre, the project supported the strengthening of ICAR's capacity to set,
enforce and monitor comnliance with norms and standards fnr agoricltural edluction in the cuni try. Th,e
project financed specialist services, information systems, incremental staff, staff training, computer
fhrilities, new office accommodationn office equipment and re,lated sthdies for IGAR ED), and se"leive
-26 -



support for non-participating SAUs and DUs.
University Programs. At each of the four participating SAUs, the project fostered a series of policy and
institutional changes to improve the quality of higher agricultural education by focusing on student
education, better faculty teaching skills and improved efficiency of university management. Project also
financed equipment needed for teaching programs and university maintenance, staff training, fellowships,
related travel and subsistence, student welfare (e.g., recreation and health services), faculty exchanges,
library modernization, computerization for teaching and university administration (record-keeping and
fiscal management), specialist services and selected civil works. Each university developed its own
investment program to suit its unique requirements.
In-Service Human Resources Development and Management. The proiect aimed to (i) improve the
effectiveness of state agricultuml employees by increasing the capacity of each participating state to carry
out systematic HRD, (ii) enhance training quality, and (iii) establish a human resources management
approach to the direction and supervision of extension staff of the participating departments. Technical
assistance was provided to institutionalize HRM in each Darticipating department. The project also
provided funds for training of trainers from in-service training centers and equipping of these centers for
effective delivery of need-based training programs. The proiect provided for staff study visits and
participation in professional seminars.
Manpower Needs Assessments: In the three project states, broad-based Manpower Advisory Councils
(MACel were envisaged to he estahlished to snonsor technically rigorous studies meant to nrovide
decision-makers with sound data and advice on agricultual labour market requirements and trends on
which to base mannower-related policy dirrtiveq hudgeting and culrricuihm reform It was plasnned tht the
project would foster systematic data collection, analysis and discussion of labour market issues. The project
fiinanreA studies nf agricultirAl mannnwer trends and rep.irments, specialist sPrvires an.d secr-trint
expenses for operating MACs.
Achievement of Development Objectives and Outputs
The project was launched on August 4, 1995. This as the first project of its kind with a major mission of
qi=-.E  .+qiy and m1mrvance of h;ghef a5grici-lti-ra eduuc=4o- in fheT cout,; Itas V-sdo
managing agricultural human resources effectively and efficiently by the participating states because of a
prrse U t    .   esour-ces play11U1LiUL"Q&IY a key roJV Le i LnUGpULaUnr 9gr1%'.UWL AI UraLIE.ALJJUULI'. I voards "a
objective the project envisaged policy and procedural changes, interventions and new initiatives. These
__ I                JA_XA r                * T#S AnO__ ____l+ A1z_A T4 _ 
III,IUUWU LVU1raLLLaUlI VI LAU1.u%,uV ILJIVOIVIILI Lli  LU I piLa ILL MUavJu   I Ui, VI LUI4rUU, a&IULtULU.L
education in the country, establishment of Accreditation Board for quality assurance, quality enhancement
UUUUSI %w.ULIL'U1ULH LQVIsIUIi, Ia%LULY LjW"UMLVL1%ILV UiqJIIeVVV]Ur.L,    useUU%;LULV  1UP1ULUL,  of mo der,IU,
tools and techniques in agricultural education, improving access to information, efficient financial
. LI~~  PrT~I.1      gUL'L       - PUC'L WW  
iiaiiagernent man oi pwa neeuds assessmnetL, brvadeiiVming 01 BoD&U rd of VIx gan   0f project SA'us by
including representatives of industry and farming sectors, constitution of Broad Based Advisory Groups,
etc. nhe inmerventions at the state level included uainers uaining, esablishiment of Hnuman Resource
Management and Human Resource Development Cells, establishment of Manpower Advisory Councils,
infrastructure development for training and dissemination of technology to end users.



Major initiatives and reforns undertaken during the project have led to transformation in quality of
agricultural education. Although the project envisaged the project benefits to four SAUs, in view of
ICAR's commitment as well as realization by other SAUs of benefits of the project initiatives, all SAUs in
the country have inplemented new initiatives and reforms for quality improvemnent The major initiatives
and impact of the project are presented under: (i) Education quality improvements, and (ii) Developrnent
and management of human resources in state line departments.
Educadon Oualitv Improvements
Reorganization of ICAR Education Division. ICAR functions as University Grants Commission for
SAUs and thus has a central responsibility for ensuring quality of higher agricultural education. Towards
this aim activities of the Education Division have been reor,anized into five sections; viz., two on Human
Resource Development (I & II), Education Development and Planning, Accreditation, and Home Science,
each headed by an Assistant Director General= The ICTAR(M) has shifted to the new bhiildinm wherein
infrastructure facilities have been provided for improved functional efficiency. Computer trining of entire
staff of the d iviqion has imnmved the efficinievi rernsrk-Ahlv in nmvidinc gimnort for ediantinn
improvement As a result of support from the project may new initiatives and processes have been put in
rnnt-in whinh hnve noqitivelv imnnn&Pt all RATTh in the nnimtrv, Aq sn rnmilt nfth-cp initiativ.pe the tPa-hincg
activities have been brought upfront, a position hitherto occupied by research in SAUs. Every one in the
gcr;i.c ltpirl PdrIm-t nin cuetpm nvfthe ^mvintru feels a s_nse ofrp..Ae in +Pat-Mincg, ind twssnsteprmcipnn,%;P.f peri.
as a period of revolution in agricultural education. The hallmark of this change has been decenthalization,
faculty in India and abroad, computerization, revision of course curricula, modernization of laboratories,
l-..- r-tolls and ';br .es and Aanenr-nacan-Afnro.Adodn prncess fo'r -q l;y -swruce.
A ----      4-- Ar -_ 14 A--_rb  A _.A-rAA 4_ ta A __A_A L- r_l1 ---A +U_'KT_- --A A - XAA-44-
tlY.Aj ~~LULIU jU I%UUA1IJ £XOOUA  ~rX4jLAULaUILAUU ij'jai UO LCI &IaACL%LLU~ LLI%J 1%iJLl GJ.U r1L%A,1"UJLaUULL
Committee for quality assurance in agricultural education. The Accreditation Board has developed norms
WIU sLUaUdUs IULi Udi.LLI.t piUograrnis, a new aredita'ion sysr.I.U iUVUoVlUr nP.J4L4UU Ul self sLUUy reporL
by SAUs/DUs, peer validation and approval, and guidelines for recognition of institutions and programs.
Seusiuzauuin f Luc IfacuILy anU -Unive[siLy dmU1U1sLI7u4J oruirugn a serie of reg1UUau Wori?shops anU 1d1inf
storming sessions about new system has led to its wide acceptability. All four project SAUs have been
accredited. Tne new accreditation system has enabled hie universities to analyze hneir strenglns and
weaknesses, develop strategic plans for academic excellence, and formulate action plans for quality
improvement in agricultural education through involvement of all stakenolders. Realizing the benefits of the
new system, all SAUs in the country have come forward to get accredited. Eight universities are in the
process of accreditation which would be completed soon and it is planned to cover all SA-us Dy 20004. it is a
matter of great satisfaction that all SAUs, have agreed to abide by the decisions of the Accreditation Board.
This is a major achievement for quality assurance in agricultural education in the country.
Organization of national symposium on 'Accreditation for Quality Assurance m Agricultural Education' in
2000 under the project was another milestone for sharing experiences of other accreditation agencies from
India and abroad. While being appreciative of this effort, it has been felt that Accreditation Board may be
given a statutory status so that its decisions become binding on the state governments as agricultural
education is a state subject.
Another major achievement has been the quality publications about new accreditation process including a
manual on accreditation and revised course curricula for UG and PG programs. A long felt need and
cherished goal of bringing unifornity in academic regulations at UG and PG level has also been brought
about As new accreditation system stands for quality assurance in agricultural education, SAUs are now
-28 -



giving more emphasis on improvement in educational standards by undertaling new initiatives for quality
improvement in their programs. The develonment of norms and standards for different fasciiltieq has
triggered compliance in the SAUs. For the first time, different stakeholders in agricultural education were
involved in curricula design and decision making hnodies both at the SAUT asq well as at the n2tionn-l level.
Client involvement in curriculum design has helped in greater acceptability of graduates in private sector.
Performance linked develonment  nts, dcentralztion of authority and mt n eenmt vefmrienm  have
contributed to commitment by the faculty for education improvement in all SAUs. This is also reflected in
nerfnrrntne nf StLident in nstininvl levl e!-nmnetft-ena
Human Resource Development Traning of 572 2       r       snd  r        overseas -nd o
more than 2000 within the country in leading and reputed institutions internationally and nationally
*     s    p    e    _     mv,ey.  .ed toW tLeu ring LatALA GJ d auu  s ee.A -ws aJnd ueducation hnology
including pedagogy. This has greatly facilitated the effective transfer of new knowledge and practical skills
to ^ste ....d .-1v--h+asea chwnge *n -eu mindse'laigt-ml-vlleti Lerw^e=iuy
W -    -         ~          S**..A    L leaGi UUI  UU WU1_W.L li U.Wir WVI& AMAI.dULW.y
Many of these teachers are now using multimedia in teaching and the quality of teaching and learning has
ubeen s=ustani.4awyiA ur.vved A. Fo thef fin-st tme tere is a rea L-UalUior aLrriog 'ULe facu.;Ly  l agen *t quaity
of teaching is important for academic excellence. As a result of the project the teachers now have a sense of
In view of the signifilcant impact of iraining, it has been raiuizwu Lhai niw is criucai fr improving
effectiveness and efficiency in the system. ICAR, therefore, as a policy, has decided to develop a training
camenduafr iui Luc, sinu in NARS and to e-sure that every staff hs opportunity for training once in five years.
At NAARM, capacity of international standards has been developed for HRD. Utilizing this, several
traiiings on euucau-on'al tehnology, behavioral technology, education and financial management,
instructional technology, and computer applications in agriculture were conducted, and in future NAARM
would continue to shoulder major iRD responsibilities.
Reduced Inbreeding. All India competitive examinations have been introduced for filling 15 and 25%
seats in UG and PG programs respectively in all SAUs. At PG level every student admitted under this
system is moved to another university. This has led to healthy academic competition, changed classroom
milieu, diverse cultural life in the SAU campus, and national integration. Initiation of National Talent
Scholarship scheme for UG programs was another innovative approach for attracting brilliant students to
agricultural education programs, building competitive spirit and promoting national integration.
Implementation of NET as a prerequisite for initial recruitment in SAUs was another milestone in reducing
inbreeding.
Enhanced Motivation. Adoption of teacher and course appraisal system by the students has brought
positive change in the attitude of teachers. Sense of discipline has made teachers more serious towards their
profession. Best teacher award and other incentives for good teaching have further instilled strong feeling to
excel in classroom and laboratory teaching. Inter-institutional linkages within the country and abroad have
been established through training programs.
Desire for Self-Improvement: Sabbatical Leave. Teachers' training have exhibited a significant change in
their mental framework Feeling has percolated that self improvement is an essential and life long process.
Those who could not be sponsored for training were encouraged to avail of sabbatical leave under this
project to pursue training or academic activity, but its uptake has been very low.
Development of Instructional Material. Faculty members have developed practical manuals which have a
stamp of excellence. Development of more than 1000 manuals in project DUs and SAUs is an all time
-29 -



record and has contributed to improving quality of instructions. In order to bridge the shortage of good
quality text books of Indian context, workshops on text book d -velopmeii were org  35 uzd
selected, and editors were identified for developing text books. Ten text books have already been printed
and the others are at different stages of publicaution.
International Symposium on Agricuiturai Education. An international symposium on "Agriculturai
Education in the Next Century: Lessons Learnt and Prospects" organized from December 9-11, 1999 was
very usefiul. Six policy documents, viz., (i) University governance, (ii) Linkages among educational
institutions - national and international, (iii) Reorienting "Land Grant Moder' of agricultural education, (iv)
Distance education, (v) Towards excellence in agriculturai education: What needs to be done? and (vi)
Agricultural education policy: National perspective, prepared in brainstorning sessions were refined in the
symposium, and these docunents now provide a base for reorienting agricultural education for academic
excellence in the country.
Environment Issues. In order to create an awareness about environment and its protection, adequate
coverage relating to environmental issues has been provided in the revised curricula. The course curmcula
includes environmental topics for agricultural sustainability and protecting environment from pollution and
degradation. Aspects relating to integrated pest management, environmental impact of pesticide use and
managernent, sustainable use of natural resources, international efforts in environmental protection, laws
relating to environmental sustainability, biodiversity and other policy issues now form an integral part of
curriculum along with study of public and private sector efforts aimed at environmental protection.
Gender Issues. Women traditionally have been opting for home science degree programs. However, of
late, the number of female candidates seeking admission to programs other than home science in SAUs has
been on the increase. One of the problem faced due to increased enrolment of women in higher education
was lack of adequate hostel facilities. This issue has been addressed through the project by providing
support for the girls' hostels in all SAUs. During the project period a total of 15 girls' hostels with the
additional capacity for 1000 girls have been constructed. This would go a long way in technological
empowerment of women.
Development and Management of Human Resources in State Line Departments
All the participating states have established human resource development programs under the Project
Monitoring and Implementation Cells with a focus on training needs assessment, developing training
designs, identifying appropriate centers for sldll development, and impact evaluation. Human resource
development progrm included both national and overseas trainings. From the line departments of project
states 375 officers were trained overseas in specific areas relevant to the felt needs of the states.
Additiotally 15581 officers were trained nationally.
Recognizing the role of HRD in accelerating agricultural growth, all the participating states have
established/developed training centres. These training centres have been equipped with modern training
technology tools and have trainers possessing competence in the areas of basic adult learning theories, use
of audio-visual aids, and skills in modern training technologies, as a result of training received under the
project This has produced catalytic effects in human resource development and management. The capacity
to develop and implement appropriate training activities is already having an imnact at field level by way of
demonstration of new technologies and transfer of field experiences to enterprising farmers. In recognition
of the imnact of trainings organized so far, the proiect states have already prepared a long term blueprint
for training of their staff. Training of trainers program has, therefore, been institutionalized as a regular
featme of eafh department's annual trAining calendar. The nroiect has helned to revitalize these
- 30 -



departments, brought a sea change in the mindset of staff, and demonstrated the importance of continued
human resource development for improving effectiveness and efficiency of technology dissemination
programs. Networking of the districts in project states with the state headquarters has led to better
coordination for human resource development and extension education programs in agriculture sector.
As a result of project interventions Andhra Pradesh has achieved major savings (32%) from reduced
pesticide use through training of farmers in integrated pest management practices. The trained officers have
effectively disseminated the protected cultivation technology to the farmers in Nilgiris, Dharmapuri,
Tirunelveli and Salem districts of Tamil Nadu. About 100 farmers have established shade net houses and
15 farmers have constructed poly houses. The yield of flower and vegetable crops have been doubled.
Modem vegetable seed production technology expertise acquired in the Netherlands has been used for
producing good quality seeds and 7.5 tons of vegetable seeds have been produced and distributed to 300
farmers in Tamil Nadu. Demonstration of new technology on sewage fed fish culture has been carried out
successfully in Madurai by the staff trained under the proiect. These are only some of the examples of
outcome of this project
Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
Factors not Generally Subject to Government Control. During the later part of the implementation of
the project the value of the SDR in US dollar terms declined- This upset the entire hudgiet nf the
participating states.
Factors Generally Subject to Government ControL At the GOI level, the additional staff as provided in
SAR doculmPnt were not recniittd In Addition twno vphiclesprovdedwereaisonotalowedtobepurchaed
by finance. This affected project implementation to some extent. However, some staff was redeployed after
the tslneiip nf NARP.Tr Thic rpfri.upA the hida-tinn r.nmip,,haft
F-acor aea.flj Sub,ect '.o Implement ng5,flj Agency   t   O.,Wl  M ajltn Luou U5.c%,y
control which affected project implementation and outcome included:
*   Initial delay in staffing of AHRD unit in ICAR
*   Delay in recriitment of ADG Accreditation
*   Delay in setting up HRD Cells in line departments
*   Delay in allocation of budget
* Rapid turn over of staff in line departments
However, despite these delays once action was taken on filling up of posts, concerted efforts were made to
ve the short..falls m -  As a resuslt of coP3n..tment ofa officials it iias.poas;Il th
targets despite initial delays.
Project Sustainability
Indian Council of Agricultural Research, participating SAUs and Govemments of Andhra Pradesh,
0U-- .f .-  ...m; .A~UU~  U h.- UALUcW..4 UJ AA1UU - Ui- jJU_  r_Jfhi _ 01LU4I) --IU -1VV
._zJAzn Tz -     7.a - oA-.v a" cor~k   %AJXedV toV condnue3 VLUL&e proces chngsfo  Uay al Lrle'vance
improvement in agriculturll education by continuing the activities implemented during the project period.
Ie U   ,La %.d%aI.%JVTU WL' 111 iJ.lIJ.ULJU LUViUSUa UUU5ULCL7 OLUjJjJU1L JIOUI i'..rLL%. Ll WV11 4b JIUIJ. 1jJPVLUVU
State Govemments. Many of the reforms have been institutionalized and will be continued since the positive
Uiipaac UUosL VVe iLL SAZ%Us anUd lin UdpaM LUXULb Ji Vrly uuvIus.
-31 -



The new accreditation process aimed at quality assurance in agricultural education has already been
nanrnred hv TrAR asm a X P!b-n afivitv fnr t'nntiniintinn nin nprmanpt b_scis Ofth.a refnrmc cii1h as all
India competitive examinations, instructional material development, faculty competence improvement,
curriculum rsxnsinn imrnnjPmPnt in r| ii  Ali., opppcs ha  f                   o
infrastructure(viz., library, laboratories, classrooms), etc. have already been included in the X Plan
.rnnoals. IC'AP(flS has nAnnnota fRnanroJ1 cnnnt Ca,- not only,  =   of fe procs  and- ahonna
imnplemented during the project, but also for initiating second generation reforms relating to university
na,,arnonnce o'a conp-iveesh l rand _ :'upo dAvli oA ant foranl, eA;nnga+e ernerg ngn~n+
requirements.
The infrastructure developed by the participating states relating to tmrning institutes will be utilized beyond
4U-  -_ec4  ---'t*. _- A  :_:_                    L-                   --t-    A-   ---'A t A__ __.:zL
U1q pUJLPJ L jJV1UU UJ VLraLILU-L, UaIULa jIV&a1IZ U.UUSII ULIl 4U b   UaLLIUU UUUI uLv tlUJBiL a4U WIlUI
support from SAU faculty. The departments will continue htaining need assessments, identification of
_I           - 3 ...-J£              TTT~T   A    1L . -- -I   - - ~-.1   --  
rm--eeb, uf;isii Lu VI LUuub, andu Urd1LLUI8 c-u--bcb for 1riu. Iss-irdnuvb ha-ve uei given by tue project
states to provide adequate maintenance and operational grants for the assets created and equipments
procured under the proje;.
-----    -- __- ____  __A> _   _ _---I  -_  -   -_ _.   .-   .-. .. T  I . * . .  ._ .
As per rcolmendatioauns of inaIWcil managremnt stuaies, SAUs woula strnve w put m place new nnancial
procedures and work towards increased resource generation.
Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank Performance. Success of AHRDP can be attributed to the team work of its partners, i.e., the World
Bank and implementing agencies (ICAR, 4 SA-us and 14 line departments in project states). Although the
Bank is regarded as a donor/funding agency, in practical terms it played a wider role not only in preparation
phase but also in planning and implementation of different components. The constant dialogue, consultation
and timely reviews by the Bank staff during project period ensured significant progress of various activities.
Timely sanctions helped in completing project activities. The World Bank has also been very supportive in
providing competent consultants for developing new processes of accreditation and for organizing training
workshops. During mid term review, based on discussions and consensus, changes in various activities
were agreed by the Bank which helped in deriving maximum benefits from the project allocations.
Recognizing the imnpact of initial delays, the Bank extended the credit closing date by 12 months which
proved very useful for completing impact assessment studies and project investments. Overall, Bank's
supervision was highly satisfactory and the members of the supervision missions had the competence to
critically review the implementation progress and the flexibility to address the issues which were important
for quality improvement in agricultural education and for efficient management of agricultural human
resources.
Borrower Performance. In view of role of quality education in accelerating agricultural growth, ICAR
accorded very high priority to the implementation of this unique project Taking advantage of the project,
many reforms and initiatives have been put in motion and every stakeholder feels the impact of these
initiatives. Academicians have already termed this period of five years as revolution in agricultural
education. The Education Division propelled initiatives in the participatory mode because of which every
one in the system owns the implementation and its outcome. At national level, during early phase of project
implementation, serious gaps were observed in meeting financial commitments but as the nroiect proressed
with determined efforts were made both by education division of ICAR and participating states not only to
meet the obiectives but also to have additional initiatives taken which hold key to develnpment of sqkill-
among graduates.
-32 -



_.ieens I Anrnpd
The AHRD project funded by World Bank was a unique one, primarily aimed at improving quality of
agricultural education. Although the project covered only four SAUs, viz. TNAU, TANUVAS, CCSHAU
and ANGRAU, the process changes have been implemented uniformly in all SAUs in the country. Based on
the experience in implementing reforms for education quality improvement, some important lessons have
been learned.
A large number of faculty members as also officers of development Departments of State Governments,
underwent national and international trainings. This helped acquire new skills, expertise in new technologies
and brought a sea change in the mind set of persons, leading to improvements in their working efficiency. It
has been realized, in view of the impact analysis of training, that HRD is critical for bringing effectivity and
efficiency in the system. ICAR, therefore, has decided as a policy to develop a training calendar for the staff
in NARS. One of the important lessons learnt while organizing trainings in the project, is the need
assessment, pre-training briefing, proper design of training programmes and adequate support for bringing
post-training benefits/ to the system. TANUVAS experience of inviting foreign consultants to India for
training faculty, led to greater benefits through training of scientists from participating SAUs, developing
training competence within the system and high cost effectivity. In future more such programmes may be
organized.
All India competitive examination for 15% UG and 25% PG admissions in SAUs had led to healthy
academic competition, changed classroom milieu, changed cultural life on the SAU campuses, brought in
greater sincerity in education programmes and promoted national integration. This is, therefore needed to be
continued. National Talent Scholarship Scheme has provided another innovative approach for student
movement and higher competitive snirit. At PG level all students getting Junior Research Fellowship moved
from one University to another. However among the remaining, some students did not accept placement in
other lJniversities. Therefore it is essential to nmvide fellowshin to everv student to offset the cost of their
movement
Establishment of HRD Cells in participating State Government Development departments as well as
emphasis nn humman resure mannageme nt pnroelled ineppsa5yv pnlityv hangev f.r mnXimi7inV effedivenesq
and efficiency of the staff. It has now been realized that continued HRD activity including training need
assese.m.nnt tirinfrio Ipncdn thginiia imrnsr,t pi-whintinin rpnrFPr APUi4nvnmwnt mind mnnn.wP-r nppdc pnhnnnina
hold the key for accelerating agricultural growth. All the project partners found the World Bank
c.orement imrnrwitAarnc ^f TrR nmiwts nirn1hpPrcnmP minA timi rn,ncmmincy ThprPfn%p a npp-.^dit, nf
simplification of procurement procedures is felt this would help speedy implementation of the project
It has been realized that reforms, process changes and infrastructure development played an important role
i.. .:i. g.i ,wu,nid, *,np..vhfn& .s-n n..-wth- oAe4ionni.m  A 1+f-,n  rf'or ,-son..cn ho. hnn
achieved, yet many new process changes are yet to be brought about relating to the University Governance,
IUI4UA I        U m t   J51, W., fAm la nc:og1114 r.ext stgeV of re1o.111J1 fAoJ l 1 V..Me and J.Love
quality of education.
Based on the visible impact of the AHRD Project in four participating SAUs and States Government
-lrUlVWU eLUVL Urj4LUUrUL.H as 4IV ILL 1.LiA.ja aii uLLso  orlwa IA Diu al oI r   vAU   iiaLLa LiL have m4r'uUwLu for
inclusion in such future project. In view of the impact of Line Department staff training in dissemination of
continued HRD and HRM in accelerating agricultural growth.
- 33 -



Delegation of fmul powers for impiementation of project to National Project Coorcinator and constitution of
appropriate planning and monitoring agencies would have helped in faster execution of the project.
Principal Performance Ratings
The Principal performance ratings are as under:
Outcome                                                S
Sustainability                       |      _E             _l
Institutional development impact                       SU
IBaIn performance                     T                  S
Borrower performance                                   S
Quality at entry                                       S
Project at risk at any time                            N
-34 -



Additional Annex 9.Participati on of Stakeholders in Meetings with ICR Mission
Stakeholder Group                Number of Participants in Stakeholder Meetings
ICAR (ED) Officers                5
NAARM Faculty                     6
Deeined Universities
- Facultv                         47 (CIFE: 8. IARI: 12. NDRI: 27)
-Studen'ts                        II (CIFE: 10, IAR: lj
IRtAti- AsTririiltiirl TUJnivem-iti:eq
- Faculty                         121 (ANGRAU: 38, CCSHAU: 33, TNAU: 15,
I - Shidrlp.ntq                 I TNVASU: 35)
- Employers                       102 (ANGRAU: 25, CCSHAU: 17, TNAU: 23,
TNVASU: 37)
28 (ANGRAU: 7, TNAU: 6, TNVASU: 15)
Line Denar-ments
- Faculty/Master Trainers/Officers  82 (AP: 51, Haryana: 15, TN: 16)
I - Fr^nner_/Agr.-Lndustr,v      I 25 (AP: 7, Haryana: 10, TN: 8)
| Representatives
ANGRAU: Acharya N. G. Ranga Agricultural University, Rajenderanagar, AP: Andhra Prasesh,
CCSY^U:.flJ.a-Maj -Ufa          * ..  A     '.c..&lU  Uv     Y,is%YJ , m, tU t. t m    &W.tuI for
Fisheries Education, Mumbai, IARI: Indian Agricultural Research Institue, New Delhi, ICAR(ED): Indian
CourcLi Ul ofA uuu I PXeseaA-..-ch .-- Tuc o   1D.vis ,  f'ITA A  A -r-Aa--..y 01 A.cuLLud
Research Management, Rajenderanagar, NDRI: National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal, TN: Tamil
XT-..L.  'T'?.ATTYT. T.......  XT,.J.. A  T  dl:- ----  qrTt Y A LI  T.  ' kT-L.J  I  … .2
.Nadu, 1IWt1U. I UffUl 1'dUU  c1;LtLLLLU1L UnivLei;Y, Coimu4ludor, 1 14 v rtU. I TaLL I'NUu V  eW1IUIU1 y  duU
Animal Science University, Chennai.
- 35 -



- 36-






IMAURNG
Report No.:         24287
Tunyp'    {CR



