Document of
The World Bank
Report No.13517-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARCH 9, 1995
South Asia Department 2
Agricultural Operations Division



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 15, 1995)
Currency Unit = Rupee (Re/Rs)
US$1.00 = Rs 31.37
Re 1.00 = US$0.032
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 sq foot = 0.093 sq meters
1 sq meter = 10.75 sq feet
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



ABBREVIATIONS
AEC         Agricultural Education Council
AHRDP       Agricultural Human Resources Development Project
APAU        Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University
DARE        Department of Agricultural Research and Education (MOA)
DGS&D       Directorate-General of Supplies and Disposal
ED          Education Division of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research
FA         ICAR's Financial Advisor
GOAP        Government of Andhra Pradesh
GOH         Government of Haryana
GOI         Government of India
GOTN        Government of Tamil Nadu
HAU         Haryana Agricultural University
HRD         Human Resources Development
HRM         Human Resources Management
ICAR        Indian Council of Agricultural Research
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IDA         International Development Association
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding
MAC         Manpower Advisory Council
MOU         Memorandum of Understanding
MTR         Mid-Term Review
NARP        National Agricultural Research Project
NDO         World Bank's New Delhi Office
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
OED         Operations Evaluation Department
PMIC        Project Monitoring and Implementation Cell
SAU         State Agricultural University
SDC         Swiss Development Cooperation
SDR         Special Drawing Rights
SOE         Statement of Expenditure
TNAU        Tamil Nadu Agricultural University
TNVASU    Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Science University
TOTP        Training of Trainers Program
UGC         Universities Grants Commission
USAID       US Agency for International Development
VC          University Vice-Chancellor






INDIA
AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
CREDIT AND  PROJECT SUMMARY    .........................................   i
I. BACKGROUND    ......................................................    1
A. The Agricultural Sector  ....................................    1
B.  Human Resources Development  ..............................    2
C. Lessons from  Past Bank Lending and Other Assistance   ..............   9
II. THE PROJECT  .......................................................   11
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement  ..............................   11
B. Project Objectives and Approach  ..............................   12
C. Summary Description  ......................................   13
D. Detailed Features  .........................................  15
E. Project Costs and Financing ..................................  23
F. Procurement .............................................  26
G. Disbursements  ...........................................  30
H. Accounts and Audit  .......................................  31
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION   ..........................................  31
A. Organization and Management ................................  31
B. Project Benefits and Justification  ..............................  36
IV. ASSURANCES AND  RECOMMENDATION   .................................   38
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited India in August 1994. The mission
comprised: Messrs. William Nickel (Leader), A. Venkataraman, K. N. Venkataraman, Anthony Pritchard and
Ms. Theodosia Karmiris. Messrs. Charles Maguire and Peter Ryan contributed substantially to the conceptualization
and design of the project. Mr. Matthew McMahon and Ms. Karen Lashman were the peer reviewers for the project.
The report is endorsed by Messrs. Heinz Vergin (Department Director) and Shawki Barghouti (Division Chief).



ANNEXES
1.    Basic Data about India's State Agricultural Universities
2.    Strengthening ICAR's Education Division
3a.   ICAR Statement of Agricultural Education Strategy
3b.   ICAR Action Matrix
3c.   Accreditation Board Terms-of-Reference
3d.   Memoranda of Understanding Among ICAR, Participating Universities and States
3e.   University Common Action Matrix
4.    Education-Related Financial Management System at SAUs--Draft Terms-of-Reference
5.    Panel of Experts--Terms-of-Reference
6.    State-Level Human Resources Development and Management
7.    Summary Cost Tables
8.    Procurement
9.    Project Training Plan
10.   Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
11.   Project Implementation Plan
12.   Project Supervision and Monitorable Indicators
13.   Documents in Project File



i
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 India, Acting by its President
Executing Agencies:       Department of Agricultural Research and Education (MOA)
(Coordination); Indian Council of Agricultural Research
(ICAR); and the States of Andhra Pradesh, Haryana and Tamil
Nadu
Amount:                   IDA Credit of SDR 40.5 million (US$59.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard, with 35 years maturity
On-lending Terms:         From the Government of India to the Governments of Andhra
Pradesh, Haryana and Tamil Nadu as part of central assistance
to the states for development assistance on standard terms and
conditions applicable at the time.
Project Description:      The project would assist in India's drive to modernize its
agricultural sector. It would promote changes in the way the
Center and the states develop and employ human resources
with the aim to make them, and thereby the sector, more
productive. To achieve these changes, policy and institutional
reforms would be carried out. The project would also foster
changes in investment priorities resulting from policy and
institutional reforms adopted. The project would begin a
process of: (a) improving the quality and relevance of higher
agricultural education and in-service training programs; and (b)
strengthening the capacity of participating states to develop and
manage agricultural human resources.
The five-year project would be the first phase in a long-term
program tc improve agricultural human resources development.
To foster academic improvement, it would strengthen ICAR's
capability to establish norms and standards in agricultural
education, monitor compliance with these standards, provide
selective assistance to non-participating state agricultural
universities and ICAR universities, and prepare future projects.
It would also include subprojects from three participating states



ii
(Andhra Pradesh, Haryana and Tamil Nadu), selected for good
demonstration effect to other states. Each state would carry
out university programs encompassing: (a) curriculum and
syllabus reform, (b) faculty quality improvement, (c)
revitalization of teaching methodologies, (d) faculty exchanges
within India and with foreign universities, (e) modernization of
university administration and management systems; (f)
upgrading of teaching laboratory equipment, computer systems,
communications, farms, libraries and hostels, and (g)
establishment of placement centers and student attachment
programs to agroindustries. The project would promote a
number of initiatives to involve university clientele more in
university management and programs and to improve
education-related financial management.
To upgrade human resources management, the project at the
state-level would support: (a) in-service human resources
development and management programs (HRD and HRM)
including: (i) training focused on job-oriented needs, (ii)
systematic training needs assessments, (iii) training of trainers,
(iv) evaluation of training effectiveness, (iv) better instructional
facilities, and (v) improved management of state sector
employees; and (b) manpower needs assessment involving the
establishment of broad-based Manpower Advisory Councils
(MACs) to sponsor rigorous studies of labor market
requirements and trends, or labor market intelligence, within
each state in order to provide state authorities and university
officials with technically sound information for crafting public
policy, academic programs, budgets and adjustments to
university intake numbers.
Bilateral Assistance:      The Government of Switzerland through the Swiss
Development Cooperation would finance an international Panel
of Experts to advise ICAR and participating universities in
carrying out reform programs in education and management.



Hi.
Estimated Project Costs:
Project Component                   Local    Foreign          TotWl
-(------  (US$ mion) ------
ICAR Strengthening                              4.8         5.3           10.1
University Programs                            18.0        23.8           41.8
In-Service HRD/HRM                             11.5         6.1           17.6
Manpower Needs Assessment                       0.3         0.0             0.3
Total Baseline Costs                           34.6        35.2           69.8
Physical Contingencies                        2.6          0.4            3.0
Price Contingencies                          -0. la/       1.5            1.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS'                          37.1    37.1                74.2
a/ Includes foreign exchange contingency to adjust for projected changes in the value of the Indian rupee
vis-a-vis the US dollar. It is assumed that because of the large capital inflows India is currently
experiencing, there will be some real exchange rate appreciation in the early phase of the project.
Financing Plan:
Local I Foreign          Total
----------(US$ million)-----------)
IDA          22.4         37.1         59.5
GOI            1.9         0.0           1.9
GOAP           5.2         0.0           5.2
GOH            3.0         0.0           3.0
GOTN           4.6         0.0           4.6
Totals      37.1         37.1          74.2
Including taxes and duties of US$ 8.1 million equivalent.



iv
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
FY95   FY96  FY97  FY8  FY99  FYOG P81
-(US$ million                        ) ..... X
Annual         1.5    6.8   17.8   14.7    8.9    6.7    3.1
Cumulative     1.5    8.3   26.1   40.8   49.7   56.4   59.5
Rate of Return:            Not applicable
Poverty Category:          Not applicable
Benefits:                  The project would support improved human resources
development as a means of accelerating agricultural growth.
By improving the quality and effectiveness of sectoral
manpower, the project would protect and enhance the benefits
derived from the considerable investments made and proposed
in agricultural research, extension and other services. By
strengthening the Center's capacity to set norms and standards
in agricultural universities and to accredit such institutions
rigorously, the project would foster a national upgrading in the
quality of higher agricultural education.
Because of policy, administrative, pedagogic and
infrastructural improvements made under the project, better
quality graduates would be produced at participating
universities more compatible with labor market signals. The
quality of teaching would improve at participating universities
as a result of staff training received under the project,
improved access to worldwide scientific information and
enhanced teaching resources and systematic teacher/course
assessments. The basic quality of life on campus for both
students and faculty would be enhanced through upgraded
housing, medical and recreational facilities. A key benefit of
the project would be the establishment of worldwide
orofessional contacts in scientific fields and the creation of a
new cadre of Indian educators/scientists which would have
received exposure to education, education technology and
scientific research abroad. Academic inbreeding of both
faculty and students would also be reduced. The project
would foster greater interaction between the university and the



v
outside community of entrepreneurs, government, farmers and
NGOs. The management and administration of each
participating university would become more efficient because
of the policy changes made and the management information
systems introduced. The project would begin a comprehensive
examination of and improvement to financial management of
higher agricultural education which could ultimately increase
the chances for the financial sustainability of the system. The
project would initiate the establishment of a much-needed
national agricultural information system complete with
computerized on-line databases at university-level and in
ICAR.
The project would improve management and operational
performance of key agricultural institutions at the Center and
state-level because of better, more efficient human resources
management. In-service training would be strengthened and be
made demand-driven. MACs would provide broad-based fora
for substantive debate on agricultural human resources issues
and for the formulation of reasoned advice to decision-makers.
State policy-makers and university administrators would have
access tc technically sound analyses of labor market
requirements and trends on which to base policy, budgetary
and academic planning.
Risks:                     As a long term-goal, the project would foster the establishment
of an Agricultural Education Council (AEC) with statutory
powers to set norms and standards in agricultural education.
Such a statutory body is required to ensure that uniform
standards are established at the national level and enforced
throughout the country, and given the statutory nature of the
eventual council, that higher standards once achieved are more
likely to be maintained. A risk exists that action to establish
the AEC might experience delays because of the elaborate
Center-state consultative and legislative process involved. As
an interim measure, the project would strive to achieve many
of the beneficial impacts of the AEC by strengthening ICAR's
Education Division and by restructuring the existing Norms
and Accreditation Committee as an Accreditation Board with
enhanced function and support. An important activity in IDA
supervision would be to track progress in setting up the
Council.



vi
The project fosters important changes in the way the states
develop and use human capital. Progress in implementing
these changes might be slowed by the traditional inertia
present in agricultural development departments and SAUs.
This risk is reduced by the widespread institutional and
political support in India for reforms built into this project, as
evidenced by the production of sound proposals by ICAR and
the states. In addition, the mid-term review and other project
fora, inc!uding supervision missions and seminars conducted
by the Panel of Experts, would provide opportunities to assess
progress in introducing changes, share experiences and take
corrective actions to attain objectives. The project's
monitoring and evaluation system should provide a reliable,
ongoing gauge of project progress in its various components
and thus help guide timely and appropriate corrective actions.



INDIA
AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. The Agricultural Sector
1.1   India's agricultural sector is vast. It supports 70% of the country's population and
80% of its poor, contributes 30-35% of GDP and generates about 20% of export earnings.
India ranks second in the world in rice and wheat production and first in groundnut
production. Since the 1950s, GOI's agricultural policy has emphasized food self-sufficiency
and low and stable consumer prices. This policy has been pursued through large public
investments in irrigation infrastructure and agricultural research, and transfer of land
ownership to tenants and the landless. Coupled with the introduction of high-yielding seed
varieties and expanded use of fertilizer, these initiatives have enabled India and its
880 million people to become self-sufficient in basic foods. In comparison to other
developing countries, famines have been avoided successfully and rural poverty rates have
declined, albeit slowly. Food consumption and nutrition indicators have improved, especially
in the rapidly growing states. Notwithstanding these successes, the rate of agricultural growth
overall has been relatively slow, at about 2.5% per year over the past 30 years and marginally
above the 2.2% annual increase of population. Much of the growth in production moreover
has been uneven, coming more from irrigated areas particularly in the Northwest. There are
indications that future agricultural growth must rely on tapping the potential for raising yields
of traditional crops, increasing diversification to higher-valued crops and to integrated farming
systems. In contrast, other Asian nations have enjoyed annual agricultural growth rates of 5%
or more, and substantial improvement in incomes and nutrition of the rural poor. China,
Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand, for example, have been able to manage successfully such
transitions from agricultural self-sufficiency to agricultural diversification objectives for both
domestic consumption and export.
1.2   In India, economic growth and poverty alleviation in the rural sector have been
insufficient, both of themselves and considering the large and rapid growth of public
expenditures on agriculture and food distribution schemes. Three main reasons explain this
lackluster performance: (a) government interventions in pricing and trade regimes discourage
private investment, technological change and diversification; (b) accelerating and poorly
targeted public expenditures on subsidies crowd out public investments in rural areas that
would be conducive to faster, sustainable and equitable growth; and (c) centralized decision-
making adversely affects the sustainability and flexibility of public resource use. In addition,
these factors result in extensive and inefficient use of natural, human and capital resources,
translating into waste and environmental degradation.
1.3   India's national developmental goals of income growth, industrialization, poverty
alleviation, employment and environmental protection all hinge on increased productivity in
agriculture. Boosting growth must depend on diversification to higher-value crops and



2
integrated farming systems, facilitated by strategic infrastructural investments and policy
liberalization to encourage private investment in the sector and to integrate the sectoral fabric
of India both internally and with the global economic community. The following forces are
emerging in Indian agriculture: market-led development, commercialization, environmental
protection and a limited government role in sectoral services and resource allocation--all
requiring a well-trained, motivated, well-managed manpower pool both in the public and
private sectors in a wide range of new fields.
1.4    To propel Indian agriculture into the 21st century, the quality, technical skills and
management of agricultural manpower must improve in consonance with rapidly changing
labor market requirements. If the education imparted is not attuned to current and future
realities, the national research, extension and agribusiness systems will perform below
potential, despite large investments in infrastructure, extension networks and technology.
India's manpower must have good analytical ability to anticipate and adjust to a changing
environment increasingly affected by global forces. It must communicate sound technical and
financial advice and information about profitable opportunities to farmers moving gradually
into diversified, commercial agriculture. It must also be prepared to develop good public
policy and make sound financial and managerial decisions.
B. Human Resources Development
Manpower Use, Efficiency and Effectiveness
1.5    As an integral part of India's national developmental efforts over the past four
decades, both the Central and state governments have invested heavily in training of staff to
improve competence and efficiency in delivery of field-level services, often with external
assistance, including that from the Bank. The outcomes of these efforts have varied widely.
Quality of output and cost-effectiveness of these training programs in general need further
improvement, even through the need for staff improvement is keenly felt and there is a
governmental willingness to commit public funds to right the deficiencies.
1.6   India has established a large number of centers to provide in-service training to staff.
These include Management for Agricultural Extension (MANAGE), an apex training center
for extension management, four extension institutes and fourteen advanced training centers, all
managed by the Government of India (GOI) or the state agricultural universities (SAUs). In
addition, there is a sizable number of staff training centers supported by the state
governments. Staff are also deputed for higher academic courses, special seminars and
workshops held within and outside the country.
1.7    Even though India has a wide network of training institutions, the facilities available
at these centers, the competence of the teaching staff employed, the relevance of the courses
offered and the methods of teaching followed are in need of improvement. Over time,
providing staff training has become a routine activity with little or no analysis of: (a)



3
emerging field requirements, (b) knowledge and skill gaps of staff, (c) the kinds of courses
needed, (d) the timings of these operations, (e) the costs involved, or (f) training
effectiveness. Training activities generally are not demand-driven.
1.8    Much scope exists to make systems currently in effect in the state development
departments more efficient through the adoption of modem human resource management
methods. Adequate efforts are currently not being given to: (a) analyzing manpower needs
in state departments charged with frontline extension responsibilities, (b) modifying staff
recruitment qualifications and m-ethods, (c) reviewing and refining job descriptions, and (d)
introducing better management systems and methods designed to improve efficiency and
effectiveness.
Manpower Production--Higher Education
1.9    Background. Much of the progress achieved in the agricultural sector over the last
30 years is attributable to Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and the SAU
system. The SAUs are institutions set up by the states for the purpose of carrying out the
functions of agricultural education, research and extension support. The establishment,
governance and objectives of each SAU are based largely on the Model Act developed by
ICAR in 1966 and modified in 1981, which has been a reference to provide uniformity across
states as well as a legal basis for development. The Model Act specifies that there should be
only one agricultural university per state.2 The governor of the state is usually appointed as
the chancellor, or nominal head of the university, with some states also having the agriculture
minister as the pro-chancellor. The chief executive of the university is the Vice-Chancellor
(VC), who is chairman of the Board of Management of the SAU. This board has
representation from state members of the legislative assembly, ICAR, state government
departments, teaching staff, progressive farmers and other private sector persons. SAUs are
charged with carrying out three functions: (a) research within the state on problems of local
agricultural significance, (b) undergraduate and some postgraduate education in various
agricultural disciplines, and (c) extension education, principally through agricultural specialists
in residence on SAU campuses or branch stations. In recent years, a number of advanced
centers of postgraduate education and research have been established at SAUs with support
from UNDP; special programs and facilities have been started in particular research areas
which are too specialized or too expensive to duplicate throughout the country.
1.10   From 1955-72 six Land Grant universities in the US assisted in establishing eight
SAUs with financing from USAID. Under this program, USAID provided the necessary
funds and expertise for the introduction of a university system based on the US Land Grant
2  This has not been rigidly followed, however, since there are four in Maharashtra, three in Uttar Pradesh, and
two each in Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.



4
system.3 USAID funded physical infrastructure, equipment, facilities, and most importantly,
training of faculty. This training was arranged through a twinning arrangement between each
SAU and a counterpart Land Grant university. Over the 17 years of cooperation, more than
300 US faculty members were assigned to positions in India and more than 1,000 Indians
received postgraduate degrees from US universities.
I.11    There are currently 27 SAUs in India with a new  university being formed--the Central
Agricultural University for the Northeast Hill Region--which covers six states with a college
in each state (see Annex 1, Table 1). This new university will be totally funded by ICAR.
Of the 27 SAUs, two are specialized universities: the Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal
Science University (TNVASU) and the Y. S. Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry
in Himachal Pradesh. The 27 SAUs have aggregate annual budgets of over Rs 4.0 billion
(US$133 million), 22,500 sanctioned scientific staff positions and 161 colleges with an
undergraduate and postgraduate admission capacity of 9,650 and 5,850 students, respectively,
and with a total enrollment of about 44,500 students. There are four ICAR institutes which
have the status of "deemed" universities.4 ICAR also provides financial support to three
central universities for the development and strengthening of their agricultural programs.:
Outside the SAU system, there are 35 agricultural colleges within general universities, with
24 of these in Uttar Pradesh alone. These agricultural colleges produce one-third of the total
graduates in agriculture. They receive no assistance from ICAR and are generally considered
to have substandard infrastructure and unsatisfactory educational standards.
3   The US Land Grant System is a triangle of research, education and extension with systemic links among the
parts under one authority. This system was never introduced fully in India: First, unlike in the US where land
grant colleges maintain a principal support and administrative function for front-line agricultural extension staff,
the state departments of agriculture in India maintain responsibility for and control of extension. GOI, however,
has encouraged SAUs to develop their own extension wings with their own qualified subject matter specialists
and researchers/extension agents. This activity, however, is confined to extension of the technology releases
by the research wing of each SAU. Second, as regards research, ICAR keeps central control over research
content and research funding. Except for thesis work conducted by postgraduate students, SAU research is
controlled by ICAR much more than by the Department of Agriculture in the US. SAU staff who participate
in ICAR-sponsored schemes frequently have little impact over experimental design, treatments or analyses. The
SAU is virtually limited to applied and adaptive research. In contrast, US universities are not so limited, and
many concentrate on basic research at the cutting edge of new developments. ICAR has also expanded its role
gradually in research through a parallel set of research institutes which competes directly with SAUs for funds.
4   Deemed universities are select, specialized institutions declared by the Universities Grant Commission as having
the equivalent status as normal universities. This is a special arrangement to promote higher education in
specialized fields in the absence of such programs in full-fledged universities. Deemed universities include the
Indian Agricultural Research Institute, the National Dairy Research Institute, the Indian Veterinary Research
Institute and the Central Institute of Fisheries Education.
Banaras Hindu University, Vishwa Bharati University and Aligarth Muslim University.



5
1.12    India's Constitution ensures that the responsibility for higher education is shared
between the Center and the states, but the coordination and determination of standards in
higher education and research institutions, and scientific and technical institutions is
exclusively the responsibility of the Center.6  The Universities Grants Commission (UGC)
was formed in 1956 as a statutory body to fulfill on behalf of GOI the requirements of the
Constitution to regulate academic standards and disburse central funds to the universities. To
carry out its mandate, the UGC can inquire into the financial needs of the universities,
allocate and disburse grants, recommend measures for improving university education and
advise on allocations of grants and establishment of new universities.
1.13    ICAR's Role. ICAR is a national apex coordinating body providing overall guidance
in agricultural research and in promoting agricultural education. Its Education Division (ED)
strives to establish, strengthen and sustain an institutional system of higher agricultural
education in order to provide the scientific and technical manpower required for research,
educational, managerial and developmental activities within the sector. With respect to
SAUs, ICAR in 1965 assumed the responsibility of UGC as part of a scheme begun in 1964
to strengthen agricultural education. In this capacity, ICAR maintains a Norms and
Accreditation Committee to set standards in higher agricultural education. However, since
this committee has no statutory authority to enforce them, the obligation for maintenance of
standards rests effectively with each SAU, which increasingly lacks the needed resources to
carry out this responsibility.7 ICAR also operates a number of schemes related to
infrastructural development, manpower upgrading and quality improvement in the SAUs,
deemed universities and selected institutes.
1.14    SAU Funding. Until the end of the Third Plan (1970), little support was received
from the UGC or Ministry of Agriculture/ICAR for agricultural education. In the Fourth Plan
(1969-74), Rs. 242.1 million (US$32.2 million) was provided following the UGC pattern of
funding to general universities which required matching funds from the states for all items of
assistance. This proved to be impracticable as the universities found that states could not
meet their contributions, and consequently access to ICAR grants was thwarted. During this
plan period, ICAR approved a new pattern of assistance with provision for 100% financing of
specified items, subject to a ceiling of Rs. 20 million per SAU. During the Fifth Plan, a
major change in the SAU system occurred with the establishment of more than one SAU in
6   Association of Indian Universities, Universities Handbook, 25th edition, New Delhi, March 1992.
7   For some SAU programs, statutory bodies set academic standards. Noteworthy in this regard is the Veterinary
Council of India which sets minimum standards for veterinary courses though a statutory function. Similarly,
some courses such as engineering and architecture are regulated by the All-India Council for Technical
Education. These councils set standards for all India and have an ongoing role in monitoring compliance.
There is no such statutory arrangement for standards of agriculture and related programs in the agricultural
universities.



6
any one state, in contravention of the Model Act.8 SAU support levels were raised to
Rs. 25 million for a single university per state; but in cases where there were 3-4 per state,
the financial assistance was reduced to Rs. 15 million per university. In subsequent plan
periods, total assistance allocations increased, the number of eligible items for support was
raised and the per SAU support levels grew. Under the Eighth Plan (1992-1997), central
funding of SAUs totals Rs. 750 million (US$26 million9).
1.15    Based on 1989/90 data, SAU budgets totalled Rs. 4.1 billion (US$247 million) with
wide variation across SAUs (Annex 1, Table 2). Research consumed the highest percentage
of SAU funds (41%), with education, administration and extension support claiming 38%,
15% and 6%, respectively. State governments assumed the major financing responsibility for
SAUs, with assistance from GOI through ICAR for selected activities. About 3% of funding
now comes from other sources such as tuitions, grants, contracts and proceeds from
foundation seed and farm product sales. There are marked differences among states in the
level of financial support accorded to SAUs (Annex 1, Table 2). In 1989/90, ICAR
contributed Rs. 681.4 million (US$40.9 million) to the 27 SAUs, representing about 17% of
SAU budgetary requirements. Only about 16% of ICAR assistance was for education-related
activities; about 72% was for research, 11% for extension support and less than I% for
administration (Annex 1, Table 3). ICAR's fund allocation policy has been based on
spreading equally the total funds available to all SAUs, taking into account the number of
SAUs in each state--a policy which has not necessarily yielded highest returns to ICAR
assistance. A number of changes have been introduced to: (a) curb the establishment of new
state-level institutions/colleges, (b) create linkage with state contributions, and (c) foster
quality improvement programs such as those for libraries and student amenities. These,
however, have proved difficult to implement. Finance is the only real mechanism ICAR
currently has to influence SAUs, but given that the proportion of an individual SAU's budget
coming from ICAR is small and that ICAR funding is virtually automatic, ICAR has minimal
control.
I.16    Constraints in Agricultural Education."0  Following a period of growth,
development and international contact in the 1960-70s, the SAUs reached a plateau of
achievement in the early 1980s and afterwards fell into serious decline. By 1989 there was
widespread consensus that the quality of graduates in various disciplines of agricultural
While there has been a proliferation of SAUs beyond the Model Act's intent of one per state and while some
of this proliferation has defied reason and squandered scarce resources, under certain circumstances having more
than one SAU per state is justified in view of the large physical size of selected states and the logistical
difficulties imposed by the management of the complex networks of campuses.
9   Based on a 40-60% weighted average of the official and market rates, April 1992-March 1993.
Peter Ryan, Academic Institution Accreditation Study: State Agricultural Universities in India, September 1993;
Lawrence Busch, Universities for Development: Report of the Joint Indo-U.S. Impact Evaluation of the Indian
Agricultural Universities, AID Project Impact Evaluation No. 68, USAID, September 1988.



7
sciences was falling and that there was an urgent need for SAUs to give attention to
upgrading the quality and standards of higher agricultural education. Recommendations were
made that the teaching and training responsibilities of scientists should be recognized in
addition to research skills. With worsening job prospects, students realize that their studies
may not lead to employment. This results in low motivation to work diligently in their
academic programs. While exceptions exist, lowered overall academic standards are a matter
of growing concern:
(a)   Mandate. The SAUs lack a culture in which the students are the prime reason
for their existence; there is a pervasive attitude that the universities exist to
provide life-long employment for their staff. Compounding this problem is the
belief that research activities are the only route to professional recognition,
promotion, adequate funding, facilities and self-satisfaction at SAUs. In
addition, SAUs maintain an orientation toward irrigated food crop
production--a vestige from the eras of severe food shortages--and often lack
sufficient emphasis on the country's current and future needs, including major
diversification into high-value crop activities and assumption of a role in the
world agricultural and commercial communities. There is general recognition
that the SAUs have neglected the social sciences, including agricultural
economics, as well as environmental sciences (para 3.17).
(b)   Management. Falling management standards at the SAUs have been
recognized for some time. A 1978 ICAR Review Committee on Agricultural
Universities concluded that planning and evaluation were the weakest links in
SAU management, and the Union Minister of Agriculture in 1985 stated that
application of modern methods of education and management in agricultural
education had not received adequate attention. This deterioration stems from a
lack of managerial training, a culture of cumbersome bureaucratic managerial
systems, an attitude that employment of staff is an important university
function, the isolation of senior staff from international experience and
knowledge, and the lack of evaluation of university performance, including
management performance.
(c)   Academic Standards. Major problems facing SAUs are academic inbreeding
and general academic isolation from both other Indian universities and from
international institutions and information. There are no incentives to excel at
teaching, gain external experience, acquire degrees from other institutions or
cultivate contacts with other SAUs or foreign institutions. Students at most
SAUs come from the same state, which tends to perpetuate parochialism.
Frequently staff-members have received all their undergraduate and
postgraduate education at the institution where they are employed. Since the
1960-70s when significant numbers of SAU staff were trained abroad,
principally in the US through USAID-sponsored twinning arrangements, few



8
with international experience have been recruited. Many of the staff originally
trained abroad are now either retired or close to retirement.
Teaching methods and curricula are out-of-date, and physical facilities,
equipment and teaching aids are in poor condition. The lecture method in
teaching and rote memorization in learning are over-emphasized. Clear links
between course work and practicals are often missing. Students fail to acquire
good general problem-solving skills which would enable them to assess new
and changing situations and to make rational judgments about options.
University libraries are poorly equipped and funded and are rarely integrated
into the learning/teaching experience. Libraries lack computer and
telecommunications capacities for accessing and managing the growing number
of international and domestic print and electronic products. Course loads are
heavy, thereby leaving little time to cultivate general inquiry skills, class
discussion or intellectual debate outside the classroom. Physical facilities such
as lecture rooms and laboratories are overcrowded, uncomfortable, poorly lit
and maintained, inadequately cooled/heated and generally are poor
environments for learning. Teaching laboratories are old, out-of-date and
sparsely equipped, and computing facilities are practically non-existent.
Hostel, recreation, medical and dining facilities are deteriorating rapidly.
(d)   Education Funding. Financial support for SAUs from the states, particularly
the less developed states, has been inadequate. Research--supported largely by
ICAR, not the states--has been emphasized, to the detriment of teaching.'
Limited funds typically go to finance excessive staffing levels and
administration, leaving inadequate amounts for operating purposes and
maintenance of equipment and buildings. This problem has been aggravated
by the proliferation of SAUs and colleges within states over the last two
decades, causing resources to be spread thinly, notably in poorer states.
(e)   Academic Administration. There are a number of cultural and organizational
problems in India which mitigate against successful and effective academic
administration. Often seniority is the more important determinant of
appointments than ability, and the practice of rotating important posts like
deans and heads of departments creates dislocations. Student unrest--a frequent
feature of SAU campuses--is often the result of substandard administration.
Financial backing for academic programs is severely restricted, and little
managerial experience or training is offered to senior academic staff. Data
processing facilities are too meager to handle even the basic necessities of
university administration and fiscal controls. Proliferation of campuses under
While across the entire SAU system funds expended on education and research are roughly equal, research
typically receives a significantly higher proportion in those SAUs with the highest overall funding.



9
each SAU has led to diseconomies of scale in university administration,
escalating costs and rationing of scarce resources.
(f)    Employability of Graduates. Historically the vast majority (80-90%) of SAU
graduates has found employment in the public sector; however, this job
opportunity stream is drying up. There is little emphasis in present curricula
on preparing undergraduates for careers in agriculture or agribusiness outside
government service, and there is no readily available mechanism in the
university system to remedy this mismatch. Private employers often have to
invest significantly in induction and on-the-job training for graduates to make
up for education weaknesses. SAU graduates express concern about their lack
of confidence in their ability to apply the skills necessary for self-employment.
The general lack of employment prospects is well understood throughout the
student community, and this breeds considerable cynicism about studies.
C. Lessons from Past Bank Lending and Other Assistance
1.17   Bank experience indicates that levels of investment in project-related training have
not declined and have frequently increased during periods of Bank involvement in agricultural
sector development. A major reason for this has been that graduates from tertiary agricultural
institutions have not met labor market requirements in terms of knowledge and skills, and
therefore need large infusions of remedial induction and in-service training. Experience also
indicates a lack of systematic human resources management in public sector institutions and
services, thereby leading to wastage of resources and reduced returns on public investments.
1.18   Systematic training is an integral part of the Training and Visit extension system
(T&V). In 1994 the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department (OED) released a second
global study on T&V, based on an evaluation of worldwide experiences in which Indian T&V
projects provided much of the case study data.'2 The report emphasized that staff quality
was a major constraint in nearly all T&V projects/components. Most of the projects provided
for continuous technical training for extension agents which was especially important due to
their relatively low level of education and basic agricultural training. Serious difficulties also
arose from the insufficient number of subject matter specialists having adequate technical and
practical experience to participate effectively in regular staff training. This resulted in
training being overly theoretical and too general. A recent draft Performance Audit Report
covering two T&V projects--Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project - Phase II
(Cr. 1138-IN) and Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1219-IN)--reported that
12 OED, Agricultural Extension: Lessons from Completed Projects, Report No. 13000, April 29, 1994. The first
T&V study was World Bank, Strengthening Agricultural Research and Extension: the World Bank Experience,
Report No. 4684, September 1, 1983.



10
these global problems were clearly reflected in the MP and AP experiences and may have
been the most damaging factors to project success and sustainability.'3
1.19    A second prospective on higher agricultural education is given in a 1992 OED
study.'4 One-half of all education projects at the tertiary level during the 1964-90 period
supported agricultural higher education. The report suggested that the Bank understood
imperfectly the problems of higher agricultural education, which resulted in inappropriately
staffed and designed projects. OED concluded that Bank projects have ignored factors which
are key to the stability, relevance and effectiveness of agricultural higher education, including:
(a) ensuring an adequate flow of resources to an institution; (b) engendering conditions--
including good governance and management at the university level--to promote institutional
autonomy and accountability; (c) creating linkages between clients and universities; and (d)
coordinating research and extension investments with those in agricultural universities to
promote institutional synergies, responsiveness and adaptability in education institutions.
OED recommended that to improve projects the Bank should: (i) upgrade its analytical
capacity of problems and potential solutions; (ii) strengthen its expertise in university
management, either in-house or through external know-how; (iii) involve a broad range of
sectoral representatives in problem analyses and project design; (iv) improve project
monitoring and evaluation; (v) focus project assistance on upgrading university management
and developing appropriate governance; (vi) incorporate agricultural concerns and
organizations into university decision-making; (vii) strengthen ties to local and international
agricultural research institutions; and (viii) encourage donor coordination in supporting higher
agricultural education.
1.20    In a 1988 assessment of USAID's worldwide experience in assisting agricultural
universities, Bawden and Busch'5 concluded that: (a) many universities have not adapted
their curricula to focus more on the knowledge and skills needed for employment in the
private, commercial sector; (b) the developmental focus or perceived mandate at many
institutions is narrow; and (c) the most effective universities have developed strong linkages
with outside organizations including farmer organizations and ministries of agriculture,
education, planning and finance. The study noted that agricultural universities worldwide are
finding themselves in local and global environments which are changing rapidly; the
universities must adapt appropriately and promptly. Recommendations included: (i)
universities must adapt to their changing environment by emphasizing agricultural systems
and adopting new methods of teaching, research and learning; (ii) universities must rethink
3  OED, India - Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project - Phase II (Cr. 1138-IN) and Andhra Pradesh
Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1219-IN) Performance Audit Report (Draft), August 2, 1994.
'4  OED, World Bank Assistance to Agricultural Higher Education 1964-1990, Report No. 10751, World Bank,
Washington, June 18, 1992.
'5  Richard Bawden and Lawrence Busch, 'Agricultural Universities for the Twenty-First Century", a paper
prepared for USAID, Washington, 1988.



11
the ways in which they function so as to recognize impacts rather than outputs as the criteria
of success; (iii) continuing education for faculty is essential if agricultural universities are to
keep pace with the rapid changes in science and agriculture; (iv) universities should improve
the monitoring and evaluation of their programs; and (v) universities must build constituent
groups as a means of garnering political support and receiving feedback from university
graduate employers.
1.21   Over the past 15 years, the Bank has been funding two National Agricultural
Research Projects (NARP I (Cr. 855-IN) and II (Cr. 1631-IN)); the latter is still under
implementation. Carried out by ICAR and the SAUs, these projects have aimed at
establishing zonal research stations and strengthening a field problem-oriented approach to
research. Another goal of the projects has been to bring about closer functional linkage
between extension and research systems. Experience in implementing these projects shows
that leadership from the ICAR system could be improved in promoting qualitative changes,
and the SAUs in general have been slow to establish and operate new institutions and
introduce improved methods of planning and implementation. However, wherever leadership
of the SAUs has been good, project implementation has been better. The states participating
in the proposed project have had good records under NARP I and II. A National Agricultural
Technology Project is currently under preparation to: (a) improve the congruence between
agricultural policy goals and overall resource allocation to research; (b) establish rational
methods for agenda-setting, prioritization and resource deployment; (c) increase farmer
participation and develop client orientation and accountability in technology generation and
transfer processes; and (d) enhance skills and provide opportunities for creativity among
research and extension staff.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.1   In 1991, GOI embarked on a program of stabilization and reform focused on the
investment regime, trade policies, financial sector, taxation and public enterprise. The new
strategy aims at reducing fiscal and balance of payments deficits, promoting rapid and
sustainable growth in incomes and employment through a broad-based liberalization of the
economy, and more effective and efficient public interventions to reduce poverty and to
deepen India's human capital. The Bank's country assistance strategy for India is focused on
supporting GOI's efforts to promote an enabling environment for broad-based, efficient,
private sector-led growth while accelerating poverty alleviation and the development of
human resources. An important element in this strategy is modernizing India's agricultural
sector and increasing its growth. In addition to market reforms to improve the incentive
framework for agriculture, this transformation must depend on institutional strengthening and
improved resource management. The proposed project is consistent with these objectives by
fostering policy and institutional reforms complemented by investments to upgrade the
quality, management and use of the sector's most important input--human capital.



12
2.2    To date the Bank has made heavy investments in infrastructure and
institution-building in Indian agriculture, often with mixed results. Despite substantial
investment in training, these have often yielded returns below expectations due in part to poor
human performance and management. The proposed project would begin to address this
deficiency by adopting a more comprehensive approach to human capital formation,
management and use. The Bank can play a catalytic role in: (a) encouraging a rejuvenation
of the Indian agricultural education and in-service training systems--which have become
tradition-bound and insular; (b) fostering comprehensive human resource development and
management as mechanisms for growth; and (c) building consensus among suppliers of
education and in-service training and "end-users" on priority actions needed. As planned, the
project would be the first phase in a long-term program to improve the quality of agricultural
human resources. The Bank is probably unique within the donor community in being able to
provide the long-term support needed to ensure the success of this manpower development
enterprise.
B. Project Objectives and Approach
2.3    The project would introduce meaningful changes in the way the Center and the states
develop and employ human resources in efforts to modernize the agricultural sector and
achieve greater sectoral productivity. It would also encourage changes in investment
priorities which would reap higher returns because of the policy and institutional reforms
adopted. The project would begin a process of: (a) improving the quality and relevance of
higher agricultural education and in-service training programs, and (b) strengthening the
capacity of participating states to develop and manage agricultural human resources. The
project is considered by GOI and the states as the first phase in a long-term program to
improve agricultural human resource development. With a five-year time horizon, the project
would be an aggregation of subprojects from the Center and three participating states (Andhra
Pradesh, Haryana and Tamil Nadu), selected to demonstrate to other states the advantages of
sound human resource generation and management. In total, four universities would
participate in the project: Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University, Haryana Agricultural
University, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University and Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal



13
Sciences University. A total of 14 state development departments involved in agriculture and
agriculture-related fields would implement human resources development/management
(HRD/HRM) activities under the project."' Because of the long-term nature of human
resource development, it is expected that future projects would encompass additional states
and ICAR deemed universities as well as first-project states as they move through progressive
stages of HRD. Future projects would also continue to strengthen the Center's capability to
establish and enforce norms and standards in agricultural education.
C. Summary Description
2.4     The project would be implemented over a five-year period and would have four
components as summarized below:
(a)   ICAR Strengthening. At the Center, the project would support the
strengthening of ICAR's capacity to set, enforce and monitor compliance with
norms and standards for agricultural education in the country. The project
would finance specialist services, information systems, incremental staft', staft'
training, computing facilities, new office accommodation, office equipment and
related studies for ICAR(ED), and selective support for non-participating SAUs
and ICAR deemed universities.
(b)   University Programs. At each of four participating SAUs, the project would
foster a series of policy and institutional changes to improve the quality of
higher agricultural education by focusing on student education, better faculty
teaching skills and efficiency of university management. To complement the
action matrix adopted by each university (Annex 3), the project would finance
equipment needed for teaching programs and university maintenance, staff
training, fellowships, related travel and subsistence, student welfare (e.g.,
16  Andhra Pradesh:    Agriculture Department
Fisheries Department
Horticulture Department
Animal Husbandry Department
Haryana:         Agriculture Department
Fisheries Department
Horticulture Department
Animal Husbandry Department
Tamil Nadu:      Agriculture Department
Fisheries Department
Horticulture Department
Animal Husbandry Department
Agricultural Engineering Department
Forestry Department



14
recreation and health services), faculty exchanges, library modernization,
computerization for teaching and university administration (record-keeping and
fiscal management), specialist services and selected civil works. Each
university has developed its own investment program to suit its unique
requirements. In addition, each participating state would carry out a
comprehensive study of the sources and uses of funds at its SAU(s) as regards
higher agricultural education (para 2.11(d)).
(c)    In-Service Human Resources Development and Management.'7  The
project would endeavor to: (i) improve the effectiveness of state agricultural
employees by increasing the capacity of each participating state to carry out
systematic HRD, (ii) enhance training quality, and (iii) establish a human
resources management (HRM) approach to the direction and supervision of
extension staff of participating departments. Technical assistance would be
provided for introducing HRD/HRM techniques and developing the necessary
systems and procedures to institutionalize HRM in each participating
department. The project would also foster training of trainers from in-service
institutes, field-testing of new courses, selective establishment/renovation of
training centers and an adequate equipping of these centers for needs-based
training programs. The project would provide for staff study visits and
participation at professional seminars.
(d)   Manpower Needs Assessment. In the three project states, broad-based
Manpower Advisory Councils (MACs) would be established to sponsor
technically rigorous studies meant to provide decision-makers with sound data
and advice on agricultural labor market requirements and trends on which to
base manpower-related policy directives, budgeting and curriculum reform.
The project would foster systematic data collection, analysis and discussion of
labor market issues. The project would finance studies of agricultural
manpower trends and requirements, specialist services and secretariat expenses
for operating MACs.
7  HRD refers to the process of selecting, posting, training and rewarding employees. HRM refers to the
systematic management of those employees in a manner which leads to maximum employee effectiveness.
HRM includes matching employee skills with job needs, selection for training based on needs assessments,
evaluation of training impact on employee performance, limiting transfers and identifying employees with
potential for more responsibilities.



15
D. Detailed Features
ICAR Strengthening (US$10.1 million)'8
2.5    As a long-term goal, the project would foster the establishment of an Agricultural
Education Council (AEC) with statutory powers to set norms and standards in agricultural
education and their implementation.'9 In the interim, the project would strengthen ICAR's
Education Division (ICAR(ED') to carry out the functions envisaged for the AEC. The
reorganization and staffing of the strengthened ICAR(ED) supported by the project would be
consistent with those proposed for the eventual AEC. ICAR's initiatives under the project
would include activities and investments needed to establish a capability to set, monitor and
enforce norms and standards and to formalize a sound accreditation system regulating higher
agricultural education nationwide.
2.6    Until an AEC with statutory powers is established, ICAR(ED) would be reorganized
and strengthened as an interim measure. As an overarching policy framework for academic
initiatives supported by the project, ICAR furnished a Statement of Agricultural Education
Strategy acceptable to IDA as a condition of negotiations. This statement was accompanied
by an agreed action matrix for ICAR improvements supported under the project (Annex 3).
As a condition of negotiations, each university and state participating in the project signed an
MOU with ICAR agreeing to abide by .hie norms and standards set by ICAR until the AEC
comes into existence. These MOUs and common SAU action matrix are given in Annex 3.
The project would strengthen ICAR(ED) to carry out its enhanced role. It would also support
measures to expand professional contacts with the global scientific community and stimulate
similar contacts across states within India.
2.7    Norms and Standards. ICAR(ED) would set up an independent Accreditation Board
to: (a) establish a national course classification, length, standard and nomenclature to be used
by all SAUs delivering agricultural programs; and (b) evaluate all existing programs to
determine standards and to identify deficiencies.20 Proposed programs would be evaluated
prior to being offered. Under the proposed system, a course could not be conducted until it
was accredited by the Board, which should be based on proper assessment of demand for the
program, graduate employment prospects, compliance with set standards and availability of
adequate resources--financial, physical and human. ICAR(ED), and later the AEC, would
ensure SAU quality through both standard-setting and funding roles, and would be able to
require that the respective SAUs, and their state governments, provide the minimum staffing,
18 Base costs.
19 Similar councils exist in India to set and maintain standards in medical, veterinary and technical education.
20 While the Accreditation Board would focus principally on SAUs, universities outside the SAU system could
apply for such accreditation for their programs to receive appropriate recognition.



16
f.acilities, equipment and other resources to enable them to meet the required academic
standards as determined by the Board (para 3.4).
2.8     Under the project, ICAR would also set national norms covering: (a) subjects for
entry into SAUs, (b) undergraduate teaching, (c) selecting faculty for postgraduate teaching,
(d) teacher assessment, (e) entry requirements for M.Sc. and Ph.D. studies, (f) examination
systemiis, and (g) establishing Centers of Excellence in teaching. All-India examinations
woultd be established for junior fellowships and postgraduate selection. The project would
finance specialist services to assist ICAR in formulating sound norms and standards.
2.9     National Integration and International Linkage. To foster the introduction of
sabbatical leave by core teaching staff, ICAR would provide honoraria (including housing and
medical allowances) and cover travel expenses to sabbatical assignments. It would encourage
senior education managers to make short-term study visits within India and abroad to observe
good management and delivery of education programs. The project would encourage
participation of teachers/scientists in conferences/symposia abroad and in India. ICAR(ED)
wouldl also promote and coordinate inter-institutional linkages between SAUs and foreign
ulliversities and institutes designed to broaden exposure of Indian universities to advances in
educational methodologies and scientific knowledge. It would be constructive if bilateral
donors encouraged their countries' educational institutions to forge professional contacts with
Inidian agricultural universities to enhance the relevance and quality of their agricultural
edLucation and research programs.2'
2.10    Institution-Building. ICAR(ED) would spearhead an initiative to establish the AEC
throughl consultations with both the states and the Center. It would conduct and commission
speciali.zed studies of labor market requirements and trends in the agricultural sector and
provide assessment and advice to GOI on such subjects. ICAR(ED) would build a national
agricultural information system enabling nationwide informational networking. It would also
rcview SAUs' progress in meeting ICAR norms and standards in agricultural education.
ICAR(ED) would also review project implementation progress and prepare future HRD
pro.jects.
University Programs (US$41.8 million)
2.11    The project would support a range of policy and institutional changes as well as
complementary investments meant to: (a) enhance teaching standards through staff
imnprovement; (b) upgrade student education; and (c) improve university administration. As a
condition of negotiations, each of the participating states furnished to IDA a confirmation
letter stating that its university(ies) included in the project will implement policy and
institLitionial improvements according to an agreed action matrix (Annex 3).
21  Bilateral assistance could offer matching funds to its home universities to enter into such arrangements. This
matching requirement should encourage a university's commitment to multi-year programs of high quality
Support.



17
(a)   Teaching Quality Enhancement. Under the project a number of important
actions would be carried out to raise teaching quality. Teachers would be
provided with orientation and periodic refresher training on teaching
technology, technical subjects, management and administration, all as part of
integrated, career-long training developed for staff. Participating universities
would establish educational technology cells to review, plan and develop
educational systems and programs. In consultation with ICAR, they would
also implement systems of teacher assessment, including evaluations of
teachers and courses by x1udents Participating institutions would develop
teaching programs in specialized fields in accordance with their respective
comparative advantages. The project would finance selected fellowships for
Ph.D. studies abroad and short- to medium-term visits to participating
universities by foreign scientists and teachers with specific and special skills to
conduct courses and provide training in management as well as technical fields.
To expose teachers to modern educational methods and systems, senior
teachers and educational managers would be encouraged to make short
overseas visits to examine alternative educational methods and systems. To
combat academic inbreeding, participating universities would recruit teachers
on an All-India basis. To stimulate global linkage and interaction of university
faculty, the project would foster inter-institutional cooperative arrangements
and staff exchanges with overseas universities and institutions. University staff
would be encouraged to take consultancies with industries and other
institutions for exposure to practical problems and the wider sectoral
community. Teachers would be given opportunities to take sabbatical leave at
other universities within the country. Postgraduate teachers would be
encouraged to contribute to undergraduate courses. To reduce dislocations
from the present short-term rotational system of staff among teaching, research
and extension support, good teachers would be able to remain in teaching for
at least five years. The number of core teaching staff would be fixed
according to norms to be established by ICAR. Postgraduate teachers would
be selected based on norms set by ICAR.
(b)   Student Education. The project would foster the production of graduates
more work-ready and job-compatible. This improvement in turn would
eventually lead to decreases in remedial induction and in-service training by
both the public and private sectors (para 1.17). Curricula would be assessed
for relevance and revised as appropriate. This assessment would use data and
advice received from manpower assessments sponsored by MACs. Special
agribusiness programs would be developed, and students would be encouraged
to gain entrepreneurial skills though attachments to local industries. Curricula
would also be enhanced to provide better hands-on practicals, including
strengthened village visit programs. Universities would strive to improve the
quality of seminars, term papers and group discussions to develop students'



18
analytical skills. To reduce institutional insularity, at least 15% of
postgraduate seats would be reserved for All-India students. For more
selection transparency, universities would publish entry requirements for M.Sc.
and Ph.D. programs. They would conduct entrance examinations for
applicants, and in states where there is more than one SAU, would hold a
common entrance examination. Periodic student examinations would be
conducted according to norms provided by ICAR. Learning facilities (e.g.,
teaching laboratories, teaching farms, computer laboratories, library facilities,
classrooms) would be upgraded and ancillary facilities (hostels, recreation,
dispensaries, cafeterias) improved; in particular, additional accommodation
would be provided for women students. Universities would develop on-line
library databases as part of a national information system/database sponsored
by ICAR. They would also enhance CD ROM capability to access the
international body of technical literature. Participating universities would
establish or strengthen student counselling services and job placement centers.
(c)   University Administration. The project would foster the adoption of modern
computer-based recording systems for university administration and fiscal
management. Management information systems would be established, and
inventory controls, accounts and budgets would be computer-based. Provision
would be made under the project to finance incremental O&M of investments
made. The project would encourage the establishment of necessary
infrastructure to properly maintain the physical plant of the university. Central
facilities would be set up at participating universities for instrument repair,
maintenance and demonstration. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
participating states will provide adequate and earmarked funds to the SAUs on
an annual basis to adequately maintain buildings, facilities and equipment.
Specialist services would be provided under the project to modernize university
administration, develop curricula, computerize records and improve financial
management, including accounting and budgeting.
(d)   University Financing. Funds would be provided under the project for detailed
studies of the SAUs' financial management systems related to education.
These studies would entail examination of the sources and uses of funds, the
extent to which staff expenditures are crowding out other, often more
productive, expenditures for developmental programs and maintenance of
physical plant, establishment of monitorable indicators of staff-related
expenditures and concrete proposals regarding tuition levels and other
internally generated income. These studies would be sponsored by the
participating states during the two years of the project and would be carried
out by qualified consultants. Upon completion of the studies, state and SAU
representatives would meet with ICAR officials to prepare a common strategy
for presentation at the Mid-Term Review (MTR) at which time an action plan
would be agreed for implementation (para 3.11). Assurances were obtained



19
that subsequent to the completion of project-financed studies of higher
agricultural education financial management, the participating states, SAUs and
ICAR will develop by June 30, 1997 a common strategy for discussion at the
MTR and at that time agree on an action plan for implementation. Draft
terms-of-reference for these state-sponsored studies are given in Annex 4.
(e)   Greater Clientele Involvement. The project would encourage the university
system to be more open and accountable to its sectoral clientele, to obtain
feedback about the qua!i/v, preparedness of its graduates and relevance of its
research products and to :-eceive advice regarding future directions for
education and research thrusts. As public sector employment in agricultural
extension has diminished and university graduates are increasingly forced to
seek self/private sector employment, the SAU's clientele has changed
accordingly, creating the need for stronger links particularly with
agroindustrialists and other entrepreneurs, including self-employed graduates.
The project would foster greater university-clientele linkages through the
following initiatives:
(i)    Participating states and SAUs would expand the SAU Boards of
Management to include more private sector representation. Such
action will require modification to the Agricultural University Acts by
the State Legislative Assemblies, and in the case of Haryana, India's
President must approve (because of the two-state University Act).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that by December 31, 1995
the participating states and SAUs will expand the SAU Boards of
Management to include at least two additional private representatives
from the sector, preferably from agribusiness. Such expansion could
be on a non-voting basis until the legal change is effected;
(ii)    Each SAU would establish in consultation with IDA a broad-based
advisory group to meet at least once each year, made up of 25-30
private representatives from the agricultural sector, including NGOs, to
obtain feedback about the preparedness of university graduates and
relevance of its programs and to solicit advice about future directions
for university activities. Assurances were gotten at negotiations that
such advisory groups will be established in consultation with IDA and
convened at least once each year starting on or before
September 30, 1995;
(iii)    Prospective employers would be canvassed to ascertain skill
requirements in graduates and actual employers would be surveyed to
obtain information about the work-ready capability of new graduate-
employees. SAU graduates would be surveyed through tracer studies



20
by the SAU guidance and placement cells strengthened or established
under the project;
(iv)    Resource persons from the private sector would be engaged to provide
specialist lectures to SAU students, and students would make class
visits to private industry and be attached part-time for "hands-on"
training and experience;
(v)    Private representatives from the agricultural sector would participate
on each state-level MAC to debate manpower issues, sponsor related
studies and advise the state government and the SAU(s) on labor
market needs and trends; and
(vi)    Private representatives from the sector would participate on each
state's committee to review and approve annual implementation plans
for the project (para 2.21).
(f)   State Support. A special unit would be formed at one university per state to
provide secretarial support for the state MAC responsible for advising on
manpower needs assessment and development (para 2.16). Additionally,
facilities would be provided to enable the participating universities to train
state in-service personnel in specialized fields.
2.12   Panel of Experts. The Government of Switzerland through the Swiss Development
Cooperation (SDC) has agreed to fund a Panel of Experts to advise ICAR and the SAUs as
they carry out the project. This Panel would provide a core of technical excellence,
continuity and objectivity over a three-year period. Specifically, Panel members would: (a)
assist ICAR and the SAUs to develop a plan of action to assist them in their transitions to
modern accreditation, educational and management systems; (b) conduct seminars on good
education policy and university management practices; and (c) contribute assessments of
project progress to facilitate the mid-term review which is meant to enable mid-course
corrections to design and provide guidance for design of second-phase operation (para 3.11).
In addition, short-term technical assistance would be provided as required over the three-year
period to advise the ICAR and SAUs in special topics to be identified by the Panel. Such
short-term assistance would also include seminars sponsored by panel members to stimulate
discussion of key educational and administrative issues and present findings/recommendations.
Panel members would not undertake any role or responsibility in project implementation.
SDC would fund the Panel on a grant basis through its existing Special Studies Consultant
Trust Fund administered by the Bank. This would be untied assistance. The total cost of the
Panel and associated short-term assistance is estimated at US$575,000.22 Terms-of-
Reference for the Panel are presented in Annex 5.
22 Costs of the Panel of Experts have not been included in project cost estimates.



21
In-Service Human Resources Development and Management (US$17.6 million)
2.13   The project would strive to improve the use and effectiveness of sectoral manpower
in public service within the three participating states. To optimize the use of scarce resources
for in-service training, three related activities would lay the foundation for systematic HRD,
supported by quality training. These activities are described in greater detail in Annex 6.
Staff recruited and trained would be carefully supervised and managed to ensure that the most
appropriate candidates are matched to assignments, needs-based training supported, and
performance evaluated.
(a)   Human Resources Development. Systematic HRD would include the
development of capability to: (i) write accurate job descriptions, (ii) carry out
skill and knowledge gap analysis, (iii) design training programs, (iv) contract
for training delivery, (v) supervise training implementation, and (vi) evaluate
training impact. The project would fund a long-term HRD specialist in each
state who would plan and implement HRD capacity-building with the
assistance of project-financed consultants. The latter would be hired on short-
term bases as and when needed. The HRD specialist would be located in the
Project Monitoring and Implementation Cell (PMIC) located in the office of
the Secretary (Agriculture) of each state (para 3.6). This specialist would be
responsible for designing HRD systems, managing training in each area of
HRD and putting in place a sustainable system of HRD in each of the State
Development Departments participating in the project.
(b)   Training of Trainers. Systematic HRD creates demand-driven training needs
and requires flexible and responsive training agencies to satisfy identified
requirements. The project would support the establishment of a cadre of
skilled trainers capable of communicating well and imparting technically sound
messages effectively. The HRD specialist in the PMIC would implement a
practical program of training for trainers of state training institutes and centers
through qualified companies or institutions.
(c)   Human Resources Management. A key to enhanced human performance is
improved management. No amount of training, even good training, substitutes
for good management. The project would finance training for managers to
raise awareness of the importance of HRM and training in techniques of
applying HRM. The core elements in managing human resources effectively
include:
(i)    Selecting candidates for employment based on their compatibility with
up-to-date job descriptions;
(ii)   Appointing candidates to jobs where their skills can be used best;



22
(iii)   Assessing employees in terms of performance and where gaps in
knowledge and skill exist, providing appropriate training;
(iv)   Assessing training in terms of post-training job performance;
(v)    Keeping employees in given posts for sufficiently long periods to
enable them to develop expertise and contribute effectively;23 and
(vi)   Identifying employees with potential and encouraging them to take
additional responsibility and receive appropriate training.
2.14   HRD, HRM  and quality training depend for their effectiveness on adequate training
infrastructure. The project would support the establishment, expansion and improvement of
training facilities and the purchase of equipment, audiovisuals, models and other teaching
aids, and training consumables. Under the project six new training centers would be
established, and existing centers would be renovated. It would also foster professional
contacts within and outside the country by funding attendance at professional
seminars/symposia and visits to centers of excellence.
Manpower Needs Assessment (US$0.3 million)
2.15   Currently no mechanism exists either in the states or at the Center to systematically
analyze labor market requirements and trends in the agricultural sector. In addition, no forum
exists to enable a dialogue among the diverse sectoral representatives regarding professional
requirements and needed directions for manpower development. The project would encourage
both rigorous analysis (i.e., labor market intelligence) and broad-based dialogue on manpower
issues. It would promote the establishment of state-level Manpower Advisory Councils
(MACs) to sponsor independent studies of labor market requirements and trends, develop
state-specific agricultural manpower databases, discuss manpower issues and constraints and
make recommendations to state governments and universities on needed directions in
manpower-related policies and development. A principal focal area for the MACs would be
analyses of state agricultural labor markets, based on emerging technologies and growth areas
for the future.24 State-derived data would flow to the enhanced ICAR(ED)'s Human
Resources Development Section which would be responsible for studving sectoral manpower
issues at the Center (para 3.3).
23 In agriculture, the minimum period is normally five years during which a person is likely to experience good
and bad crop seasons, understand the specific nature of the area, follow through on interventions, establish client
trust and gain confidence as a professional.
24 A recommended guide to the theoretical justification for and practical implementation of such studies is: John
Middleton, Adrian Ziderman and Arvil Van Adams, Skills for Productivity: Vocational Education tand
Training in Developing Countries, Oxford University Press, New York, 1993.



23
2.16   Each state government would establish by executive order an MAC (para 3.7). The
MAC would organize studies through independent consultants and submit reports to the state
government. On the basis of study results and recommendations from the MAC, the state
government would formulate action plans, issue policy directives and allocate resources.
Additionally, thc SAUs would base curriculum revisions on, and adjust student intake
according to, study results and MAC recommendations. While formal studies and surveys
would be conducted approximately every three years, special studies on specific topics would
be carried out as required. State action plans emanating from the studies would be revised
annually. The MAC would be supported by a secretarial unit located at an SAU. The project
would finance manpower-related studies sponsored by the MACs, publication of their
recommendations and the associated operating costs of secretarial units.
E. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost Estimates
2.17   Total project costs are estimated at US$74.2 million (Rs. 2,759.7 million) including
US$8. 1 million (Rs. 297 million) in duties and taxes. Of this total, 50% (US$37. 1 million)
are foreign exchange costs. Investment costs and recurrent costs amount to 80% and 20% of
base costs, respectively. Incremental recurrent costs would include operation and maintenance
of civil works, vehicles and equipment; incremental salaries; and laboratory and other
educational/training consumables and office supplies and utilities. The base costs are those
obtained at the time of appraisal (August 1994) and were adjusted for inflation to the time of
negotiations. Physical contingencies amount to 4% of base costs, and price contingencies,
2%. Price contingencies were added to the foreign exchange component at 1.5% for 1995,
I .8'oi 14 1996. 2.6%(o for 1997 and 2.5% for subsequent years (calendar year basis). For local
costs, price contingencies were added at 9.0% for 1995, 8.5% for 1996, 8.0% for 1997, 7.0%
for 1998, and 6.0% for subsequent years (calendar year basis).25
2.18  The table below presents a summary of project costs by component. Additional
summary tables of project costs by year, by component and by expenditure account are
presented in Annex 7.
25 Source: World Bank Guidelines for India as of January il, 1995. The estimates for international inflation are
CoJISiS,fl[ t\it \ih the 13atlk's latest G-5 MUV Index, which is updated periodically.



24
Project Cost Summary
Project Component               Local  | Foreign        Total       Foreign
I____________     ____ _  0 Exchange
------(US$ mnillion)                 (%)
ICAR Strengthening                          4.8         5.3       10.1           52
University Programs                        18.0        23.8       41.8           57
In-Service HRD/HRM                         11.5         6.1       17.6           35
Manpower Needs Assessment                   0.3         0.0        0.3
Total Baseline Costs                       34.6        35.2       69.8           50
Physical Contingencies                    2.6         0.4         3.0          15
Price Contingencies a/                    -0. 1       1.5         1.4          60
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS26                      37.1        37.1       74.2           50
a/   Includes foreign exchange contingency for projected changes in the value of the Indian rupee vis-a-vis the
US dollar. It is assumed that because of the large capital inflows India is currently experiencing, there will
be some real exchange rate appreciation in the early phase of the project.
Proposed Financing Plan
2.19   The proposed IDA Credit of US$59.5 million equivalent would finance 90%  of total
project costs, net of taxes, or 80% of total project costs, including taxes. The Credit would
finance 100% of the direct and indirect foreign exchange costs and 78% of local costs, net of
taxes and duties. GOI and the three states would finance the US$8.1 million of estimated
taxes and duties. IDA would fund an average of about 65% of incremental recurrent costs,
which amount to US$14.6 million (excluding taxes and duties) over the five-year period.
There would be a phased increase in the contributions of GOI and the states to cover
incremental recurrent costs: IDA would finance 90% during the first year of the project, but
this contribution would decline to 50% by the fifth year. Retroactive financing totalling SDR
1.0 million (US$1.47 million equivalent) would be permitted for procurement services, off-
the-shelf purchases of equipment and small civil works to be done through force account.
The financing plan below presents the IDA, GOI and state contributions to the project.
26 Including taxes and duties of US$ 8.1 million equivalent.



25
Proposed Financing Plan by Foreign Exchange and Local Costs
Local | Foreign     Total
------(US$ million)----------
IDA                  22.4      37. 1      59.5
GOI                   1.9       0.0        1.9
GOAP                  5.2       0.0        5.2
GOH                   3.0       0.0        3.0
GOTN                  4.6       0.0        4.6
Totals             137.1       37.1       74.2
2.20  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that GOI will make Credit funds available to
ICAR and participating states according to its standard arrangements for developmental
assistance to central agencies and the states. All ICAR(ED) activities would be funded
through ICAR's budget. ICAR's budget would be approved as part of the Ministry of
Agriculture's overall budget on an annual basis by a vote of the Parliament. Assurances were
obtained that an annual implementation plan for the ICAR component of the project
acceptable to IDA would be approved by a committee consisting of the ICAR Director-
General, Deputy Director-General (ED) and the FA by April 30 of each year starting in 1996.
The implementation plan for 1995 would be approved in this way not later than May 31,
1995. Assurances were also obtained that the ICAR Deputy Director-General (ED) would be
empowered to utilize project funds once the annual implementation plan and budget for the
ICAR component are approved without recourse to item sanction from ICAR's Financial
Advisor (FA).
2.21   An understanding was reached at negotiations that GOI will release in advance those
funds necessary for about four months of anticipated project expenditures to GOAP, GOH and
GOTN, subject to periodic adjustment of such advances. Another understanding was reached
that, upon receipt of these funds from GOI, the state governments will transfer the funds,
together with their own quarterly allocations for the project, to agencies responsible for
project implementation, to be used exclusively for eligible expenditures under the project.
Project activities of each participating state would be funded out of its budget. The heads of
development departments would follow the established budgetary procedures of their state for
project activities. Expenditures of the university would be governed by established SAU
budgetary procedures and would be regulated on the basis of an approved state annual
implementation plan. Assurances were obtained that by April 30 of each year starting in
1996, an annual plan for the State acceptable to IDA, including the participating universities,
development departments and MAC, would be approved by a state-level committee consisting



26
of the Secretaries of Agriculture and Finance, the VCs of participating universities, the heads
of participating development departments and four eminent persons nominated by the
Government representing education and agroindustries. The implementation plan for 1995
would be approved in this way not later than May 31, 1995.
F. Procurement
2.22   Civil Works (US$12.86 million equivalent). Works would be procured following
Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) or Force Account procedures as specified below:
(a)    LCB. Civil works in the project would consist of construction of several
training institutes with hostels and residential quarters and renovation and
upgrading of existing buildings. Works valued at US$11.2 million equivalent
would be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to IDA. The justification for proposed
LCB for civil works is that they consist of rehabilitation and modernization of
existing buildings or the construction of new buildings in widely scattered
locations spread over three states, four universities with multiple campuses and
ICAR during the first three years of the project. The works would be grouped
together into convenient packages for bidding, but the largest contract is likely
to be less than US$1.4 m;llion equivalent. Therefore, it is unlikely that foreign
firms would find such contracts attractive. Nevertheless, bids from foreign
contractors would not be precluded. Detailed design of the works with
specifications and bills of qualities would be completed before negotiations for
the prior-review packages to be awarded in the first two years of the project.
These would be reviewed by the Bank's New Delhi Office (NDO) technical
staff, and the commercial conditions, by the procurement staff of NDO. For
other contracts, detailed design would be completed prior to invitations to bid.
Contracts would be entered into using Standard Bidding Documents and
following procedures acceptable to IDA.
(b)   Force Account. Force Account would be used for all small civil works valued
at US$20,000 equivalent or less, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.66
million equivalent, and would be carried out by the state governments, ICAR
and participating universities or let out on the basis of invited quotations from
three qualified contractors. These works are not suitable for competitive
bidding due to the small amounts involved. Monitoring of works carried out
under Force Account would be done under procedures acceptable to IDA.
Materials for works carried out under Force Account valued at an aggregate of
US$0.9 million equivalent would be procured following Local Shopping
procedures acceptable to IDA.
2.23   Goods, Equipment and Furniture (US$23.67 million). Goods--in particular,
laboratory and other scientific equipment and computers--would be procured using



27
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. However, equipment estimated to cost
less than US$200,000, up to an aggregate of US$3.9 million equivalent, would be procured
using LCB procedures. Standard Bidding Documents and procedures acceptable to IDA
would be used for ICB and LCB procurement. Small items of equipment and furniture would
be procured by the development departments of the three states, four universities and ICAR in
small lots over the five-year project period. Individual contracts are not expected to exceed
US$25,000 and as such, would be procured using Local or International Shopping procedures
satisfactory to IDA, up to an aggregate amount of US$6.04 million equivalent. Rate contracts
of Directorate General of Supplies and Disposal (DGS&D), New Delhi, would only be
acceptable as a substitute for procurement under Local Shopping. Books, periodicals,
proprietary equipment/software and spare parts compatible with existing equipment valued at
about US$2.18 million would be procured under Direct Contracting procedures. Livestock
valued at US$0. 15 million would be procured following the usual government procedures.
2.24  Vehicles (US$1.48 million). Vehicles for the project would consist of four-wheel
drive vehicles, cars, light trucks, min-buses and ambulances. The requirement of vehicles
covers the fourteen departments of the three states, four universities and ICAR(ED), is spread
over the project period and thus would not be amenable to central and lumped procurement.
Individual contracts are not likely to be more than US$100,000. Hence, these would be
procured using Local Shopping Procedures/DGS&D rate contracts.
2.25  Technical Assistance (Specialist Services, Studies and Training) (US$21.0 million).
Technical assistance and consultancy services for studies estimated in the aggregate at
US$3.73 million equivalent would be hired following procedures prescribed in "Guidelines:
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
(August 1981). Training, aggregating to an amount of US$17.26 million, would consist of
placement and support of faculty members of four universities, training institutes of three
state governments and ICAR for short- to long-duration courses in identified foreign and local
institutions.
2.26  Operating/Recurrent Costs (US$14.64 million). These would include salaries,
incremental operating and maintenance costs of vehicles and equipment, teaching
consumables, office and computer supplies and running costs of the state-level HRD cells.
2.27  Contract Review. All civil works, goods and equipment contracts valued at
US$200,000 equivalent and above, all computer contracts and the first three contracts of each
state government, SAU and ICAR regardless of value, would be subject to prior review by
IDA. In respect of consultancies, the model documents used for inviting proposals,
terms-of-reference for all consultancies irrespective of value, all single source contracts
regardless of value, all contracts for assignments of a critical nature and all contracts valued
at US$100,000 or more awarded to firms and US$50,000 or more awarded to individuals
would be subject to prior-review by IDA. This would result in prior-review of about 80% of
all contracts awarded under ICB/LCB. Selective post-review of awarded contracts below the
threshold levels would be carried out by visiting IDA review missions. Although this would



28
result in about 40% of project procurement being subject to review, the nature of the project
with its emphasis on training and human resources development is such that a higher level of
IDA review would not have a significant impact on procurement quality.
2.28  Procurement Information. Procurement information would be collected and
recorded as follows:
(a)   Prompt reporting of contract award information by the PMICs under the state
Secretaries (Agriculture), SAUs and ICAR;
(b)   Comprehensive semi-annual reports by the PMICs and ICAR to IDA
indicating:
(i)   revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project;
(ii)  revised timing of the procurement actions including advertising,
bidding, contract award and completion time for individual contracts;
and
(iii)  compliance with aggregate limits on the specified methods of
procurerrent;
(c)   a completion report by the Borrower within three months of the Credit closing
date.
2.29  The proposed packages and the Procurement Schedules for the project are given in
Annex 8. The project's Training Plan is presented in Annex 9. The project elements, their
estimated costs and proposed methods of procurement are summarized below. Figures in
parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed through the IDA Credit.



29
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
Project Element                    Procurement Method          Total Cost
ICB   I  LCB   I Other a/
- --------- (US$ million)--------------
Works
Buildings, Water Supply                                11.2        1.7           12.9
(7.8)      (1. 1)        (8.9)
Goods
Equipment and Furniture                     11.4        3.9        6.0          21.3
(9.2)     (3.1)      (4.8)         (17.1)
Books, Periodicals, Proprietary                                    2.2            2.2
Equipment/Software and Other Print                                (1.8)          (1.8)
Material
Livestock                                                          0.2            0.2
(0.0)         (0.0)
Vehicles                                                           1.5            1.5
(1.2)         (1.2)
Consultancies and Training
Policy Support                                                     0.5           0.5
(0.5)         (0.5)
Implementation Support                                             2.0            2.0
(2.0)         (2.0)
Capacity-Building                                                 18.5           18.5
(18.5)        (18.5)
Miscellaneous
Operating Costs                                                   14.6           14.6
(9.5)         (9.5)
Building Rentals b/                                                0.5            0.5
((.0)         (0.0)
Total                                       11.4       15.1       47.7          74.2
(9.2)    (10.9)     (39.4)         (59.5)
a/    Other methods include torce account, prudent shopping, engagement ot consultants an training.
b/    May include some renovation of existing ICAR(ED) facilities.



30
G. Disbursements
2.30   Disbursements under the Credit would be made as follows:
(a)   75% on civil works for buildings;
(b)    100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local ex-factory costs or 80% of other
local costs of equipment, furniture, vehicles, books, journals and proprietary
equipment/software;
(c)    100% expenditures on consultant services, training and studies; and
(d)   incremental operating costs on a declining basis as follows: 90% through
December 31, 1997, 70% through December 31, 1999, and 50% thereafter
(including incremental salaries and wages, operation and maintenance of
equipment, vehicles and works, educational/training consumables, office
supplies and utilities).
2.31  Disbursements against civil works on contracts exceeding US$200,000 equivalent and
against equipment and supplies on contracts exceeding US$200,000 equivalent would be fully
documented, as would disbursements for all consultant service contracts with firms over
US$100,000 (US$50,000 for individual consultants), training and studies. Disbursements for
other expenditures would be made against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Supporting
documentation for SOEs would be retained by GOI and the states and be made available to
IDA staff during supervision. Expenditures for project activities incurred after
August 22, 1994 would be eligible for retroactive financing, up to a maximum of
SDR 1.0 million (US$1.47 million equivalent). All contracts and items to be financed
retroactively would be procured in a manner acceptable to the Association. Disbursements
are projected over a period of six calendar years (seven IDA fiscal years), from June 1995 to
December 2000. The disbursement schedule is presented in Annex 10. It is shorter than the
historical disbursement profile for agricultural sector projects in India, but is considered
realistic in view of the facts that all implementing agencies/states have past experience
implementing Bank-supported projects and that an important project objective is to improve
management capability. The project would be completed by June 30, 2000, and the Closing
Date of the IDA Credit would be December 31, 2000.
2.32  To expedite project implementation and reduce the volume of withdrawal applications,
a Special Account in US dollars would be established in the Reserve Bank of India with an
authorized allocation of US$4.0 million, equivalent to an estimated three months average
estimated disbursements.



31
H. Accounts and Audit
2.33   The Department of Agricultural Research and Education of the Ministry of Agriculture
(DARE), ICAR(ED), the participating states and agricultural universities (including the Tamil
Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University) would establish separate accounts for the
project. These accounts, together with supporting documentation, including evidence of
contributions from GOI, participating states and IDA, would provide a comprehensive record
of project financing and expenditures. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that these
accounts and the Special Account will be maintained and audited annually according to
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA, and that the auditor's report, which will include a separate statement on SOEs and
certified copies of project accounts, will be submitted to IDA not later than nine months after
the close of each fiscal year: (a) by the Department of Agricultural Research (DARE) for
ICAR and its own expenditures, and (b) by each participating state for its own expenditures
and those of the universities duly aggregated.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
3.1    Management Strategy. A Project Implementation Plan is presented in Annex I 1.
The project would be implemented through the existing management system responsible for
agricultural development and education at the national and state levels. The major
implementors of the project would be ICAR(ED) at the national level, and the Secretaries
(Agriculture), the participating agricultural universities and the Development Departments in
the three states. DARE27 would be the nodal agency responsible for overall project
coordination. While implemented within the existing state and national frameworks, the
project would endeavor to improve the efficiency of the existing management systems by
introducing requisite changes in structure and methods. Reforms would be mainly through
policy and institutional revision, continuous upgrading of staff competence and introduction of
improved management tools and facilities. A guiding principle would be the need to develop
institutional capacity and efficiency for addressing present and emerging issues related to
HRD in the sector. The projec. would be- liberal in providing support for improving the
27 DARE is the government department charged with development of agricultural research and education at the
national level. It is part of the Ministry of Agriculture but with a separate Secretary answerable to the Minister
of Agriculture. ICAR is an autonomous organization responsible for agricultural research and education and
maintains a separate board to control its activities. The chief executive of ICAR, the Director-General (DG),
is also the Secretary for DARE. All field operations in agricultural research and education are operated through
ICAR with budgetary support provided through DARE. DARE functions as the representative of the
Government, while ICAR, an autonomous body, operates with more flexibility and deals with technical issues
with the support of DARE. A government directive can be issued by DARE, not by ICAR.



32
management skills of staff; it would be selective and restrictive in creating new staff
positions.
3.2   Structure and Roles. At the national level, DARE, represented by its Secretary,
would be the nodal agency responsible for coordinating project activities. All of its field
responsibilities, such as supervision and technical assistance, would be done through the
services of ICAR(ED). Until an AEC becomes 2 reality (para 2.5), ICAR(ED) would
spearhead the effort to improve the quality of agricultural education: It would set and enforce
norms and standards for accreditation and release of Central funds for SAUs; it would also
foster faculty improvement, promote coordination among SAUs and assist in establishing
contacts with institutions outside the country. ICAR(ED) would assess periodically the
performance of the SAUs, promote infrastructural development, hire technical assistance,
maintain a database on supply and demand for agricultural education and promote networking
of information among institutions. The project would strengthen the ICAR(ED) as an interim
measure and require MOUs between ICAR and participating universities/states to facilitate
enforcement of standards.
3.3   The strengthened ICAR(ED) would be reorganized for the purpose of setting and
maintaining standards, and continually improving higher agricultural education. The
functional parts of the organization would be:
(a)    The Accreditation Board responsible for setting and monitoring standards
(para 2.8);
(b)   The Education Planning and Development Section in charge of university
development, information systems and education development;
(c)    The Human Resources Development Section responsible for SAU/ICAR staff
development, manpower planning, examinations and awarding of scholarships
and fellowships; and
(d)   The Administration and Finance Section responsible for the efficient and
timely administration of the Education Division as well as the release of funds
and auditing of account.,,.
3.4   Details of ICAR's role under the project and its proposed reorganization are given in
Annex 2. The strengthened ICAR(ED) would require the employment of special talent and
expertise to carry out proposed responsibilities. About thirteen higher-level positions would



33
be created for this purpose within the new organizational structure.28 It is crucial for the
effective operation of the strengthened ICAR(ED)--as well as to the success of the
project--that appropriately experienced and qualified professionals be appointed to newly
created posts. It is important that such appointees have solid education credentials, together
with stature, innovation and leadership qualities. Additionally, qualified appointees should
remain in their jobs sufficiently long to obtain desired results. Terms-of-Reference
satisfactory to IDA for the Accreditaticn Board were a condition of negotiations (Annex 3).
Establishment of a Board satisfactory .:. IDA would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
Assurances were received at negotiatio:--i that the Accreditation Board and the sections of the
strengthened ICAR(ED) will be staffed with senior persons acceptable to IDA and would be
fully operational by September 30, 1995.
3.5    Participating universities would strive for academic excellence by enhancing the
quality of graduates and improving faculty competence and university management. The VCs
would be responsible for implementing project activities at participating universities. The
Academic Council of each university would assist the VC in improving education quality
under the project.29 In addition, to support the VC in implementing an academic
improvement program, the project would foster the establishment of an education technology
and development cell at each university. To improve the quality of performance, each
participating university has endorsed a common action matrix providing the necessary
framework for project implementation (Annex 3).
3.6    The Secretary (Agriculture) in each participating state would organize, coordinate and
monitor project activities at the state-level. A small PMIC has been created and attached to
the Secretary to manage these tasks. Main responsibilities at the state-level would be: (a)
manpower management and adjusting public policies on investments in agricultural education
and HRD/HRM; (b) monitoring project implementation and providing adequate and timely
funding to support project activities; (c) approving annual state-level project implementation
plans; (d) sponsoring a study of financial management at the state's SAU(s); (e) supporting
necessary action to amend the state's University Act to expand private representation on the
SAU Board(s) of Management; and (f) through the HRD specialist located in the PMIC,
designing and coordinating HRD programs in the participating Development Departments.
28 ICAR(ED)'s total personnel would likely increase from 45 currently to 100 with the project, including about 13
new higher-level positions. This is not considered a large number taking into account the size of ICAR(ED)'s
present and future tasks of setting standards, coordinating and monitoring 27 SAUs, four deemed universities
and three Central universities, employing over 20,000 academic staff in more than 160 colleges.
29 In accordance with the statutes of the State Agricultural University Act, all academic matters require prior
approvals by the Academic Council. Therefore, all project-supported changes related to academic matters would
need Academic Council clearances.



34
3.7   The project would foster the establishment of two broad-based committees in each
state:
(a)    A committee would be constituted for reviewing and approving annual
implementation plans for project activities. It would consist of the Secretaries
of Agriculture and Finance, the VCs of participating SAU(s), the heads of
participating development departments and four eminent persons nominated by
the government representing edu_altion and agroindustries (para 2.21); and
(b)   Each state government by executive order would set up a MAC. MACs would
generally consist of 9-10 members made up of three from the state government
(one from Finance, the Agricultural Production Commissioner and one other
state official, preferably the Chief Secretary), three from the SAU (VC(s),
Dean (Postgraduate) and Director of Research), three representing non-
governmental agencies (NGOs) and trade interests, to be nominated by the
government in consultation with the SAU VC(s), and one expert in manpower
needs assessment.30 Assurances were obtained at negotiations that by
June 30, 1995, an MAC acceptable to IDA will be established in each
participating state. The MAC would be supported by a secretarial unit located
at one SAU in each state.
3.8   The heads of Development Departments of the states would be responsible for all in-
service training of staff. They would encourage all managers and supervisors to assume
responsibility for systematically managing staff assigned to them with a view to enhancing
each staff-member's effectiveness and improving the transfer of technology to farmers.
Continuous support for HRD would also be required from the heads of the Development
Departments who would encourage high quality, demand-driven and carefully evaluated in-
service training based on regular needs-assessments. HRD cells in each of the participating
departments would be set up for this purpose. The HRD specialist in the PMIC would
coordinate the activities of these cells.
3.9   Project Supervision. Project s-.:pervision would be linked closely to project
objectives and the annual implementat;ii plans of ICAR and the states (paras 2.20-2.21). It
would involve monitoring of a .umbei of key inricators and assessing both quality and
quantity aspects of project implementation and impact. Details on the timing of supervision
missions and key skills which are likely to be needed for supervision are presented in
Annex 12. There would be two missions during each year of the project; however, in the
first year there would be an additional mission to provide assistance at the critical start-up
phase. The main supervision mission would coincide with the review of annual plans for
various project activities which would take place early in the last quarter of each year. The
second annual mission would be in the second quarter of each year. The first mission would
30 State-specific composition of MACs w'u!;d vary.



35
focus on planning and funding issues, and the second would review field operations and
address implementation issues and mutually agreed topics of special HRD interest. To the
extent possible, a senior staff-member of the ICAR(ED) and a representative of the respective
state government would participate on every mission. As part of its enhanced regulatory
function, ICAR(ED) would carry out a separate review of SAU performance on an annual
basis. Supervision would be facilitated in each of the states by specialized procurement cells
or procurement agencies to assist with he procuring and supervising of works or with the
acquisition of goods (Annex 8);
3.10  Monitoring and Evaluation. The ultimate goal of the project would be to improve
agricultural performance by introducing institutional and managerial changes in manpower
development and use. This goal would likely be realized well beyond the project's life. The
project, however, would start long-term, broad-based HRD initiatives meant to launch a
process of behavioral and institutional reform. During project implementation, two principal
sets of indicators would be monitored: commitments and behavioral changes.
Commitments of institutions and governments to HRD would be gauged by appointments of
sound personnel, conducting of studies, allocations of resources, strengthening of agencies
(structural apparatus), instituting of reforms and investments. Behavioral changes would be
assessed by how well reforms are being implemented and incorporated into the management
culture of each implementing agency. Project implementation progress would be monitored
regularly by the PMIC in each of the states and the Education Planning and Development
Section of ICAR(ED). Key monitorable indicators developed for the project are presented in
Annex 12. In addition, ICAR would organize specific evaluation studies using specialists to
assess the effectiveness of the policy and management changes supported under the project
and their effectiveness for application to other states and universities in India. The project
would provide funding support for these evaluation studies. The Panel of Experts (para 2.12)
would offer periodic, in-depth evaluation of ICAR and SAU efforts to carry out project
reforms.
3.11  Reporting, Mid-Term and Completion Reviews. Semi-annual reports would be
submitted by the states' Secretaries of Agriculture and Deputy Director-General (ICAR(ED))
not later than April 30 and October 31 of each year. These reports would provide
information on the physical and financial progress of the project for the periods April to
September and October to March. Additionally, the states and ICAR would submit to IDA
copies of their project annual implementation plans, component-wise budget provisions,
procurement plans, staff training plans, and civil works plans by end-June of each year. It is
expected that agencies/cells assisting with the procurement/supervision of works and goods
would also contribute to status reporting (Annex 8). Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that a joint mid-term review (MTR) will be held no later than December 31, 1997 involving
DARE, ICAR, GOAP, GOH, GOTN and IDA. The MTR would enable mid-course
corrections to improve project performance and give guidance for the design of the proposed
second-phase project. A common strategy developed among the states, SAUs and ICAR on
university financing based on state-specific studies would be presented and discussed at the
MTR and an action plan for implementation would be agreed (para 2.1 1(d)). At the MTR the



36
Panel of Experts would provide assessment of implementation progress and recommend
needed adjustments to education-related reform programs.
3.12  The Implementation Completion Report for the project would focus on the
achievements of the project, its impact in relation to objectives and lessons learned for
introducing changes in human resources development and management and in the national
agricultural education system. This wc,u.d also be a joint exercise with the involvement of
the implementing agencies, DARE and sDA following standard Bank guidelines for
completion reporting.
B. Project Benefits and Justification
3.13  Benefits. The project would support improved human resources development as a
means of accelerating agricultural growth. By improving the quality and effectiveness of
sectoral manpower, the project would protect and enhance the benefits derived from the
considerable investments made and proposed in agricultural research, extension and other
services. By strengthening the Center's capacity to set norms and standards in agricultural
universities and to accredit such institutions rigorously, the project would foster a national
upgrading in the quality of higher agricujltural education. Because of policy, administrative,
pedagogic and infrastructural improvements made under the project, better quality graduates
would be produced at SAUs more comoatible with labor market signals. The quality of
teaching would improve at the SAUs as a result of staff training received under the project,
improved access to worldwide scientific information and enhanced teaching resources and
systematic teacher/course assessments. The basic quality of life on campus for both students
and faculty would be enhanced through upgraded housing, recreational facilities and health
services. A key benefit of the project would be the establishment of worldwide professional
contacts in scientific fields and the creation of a new cadre of Indian educators/scientists
which would have received exposure to education, education technology and scientific
research abroad. Academic inbreeding of both faculty and students would also be curtailed.
The project would foster greater interaction between the university and the outside community
of entrepreneurs, government, farmers and NGOs. The management and administration of
each participating university would become more efficient because of the policy changes
made and the management infcrrnation system: int, duced. The project would begin a close
examination of and improvement to financial management of higher agricultural education
which could ultimately increase the chances for financial sustainability of the system. The
project would initiate the establishment of a much-needed national agricultural information
system complete with computerized on-line databases at university-level.
3.14  The project would improve management and operational performance of key
agricultural institutions at the Center and state-level because of better, more efficient human
resource management. In-service training would be strengthened and be made demand-
driven. MACs would provide broad-based fora for substantive debate on agricultural human
resources issues and for the formulation of reasoned advice to decision-makers. State policy-



37
makers and university administrators would have access to technically sound analyses of labor
market trends on which to base policy, budgetary and academic planning.
3.15   Risks. As a long-term goal, the project would support the eventual establishment of
an AEC to set norms and standards in higher agricultural education. AEC would have
statutory powers to enforce thc,:e standards through its certification of SAUs and their courses
and through their funding of educational programs at the universities. Such a statutory body
would help ensure that uniform standards are established at the national level and enforced
throughout the country, and given the statutory nature of the eventual council, that higher
standards once achieved are more likely to be maintained. A risk exists that action to
establish the AEC might experience delays because of the elaborate Center-state consultative
and legislative process involved. The implementation of the project would not be adversely
affected by delay in establishing the AEC since as an interim measure the project would
achieve many of the beneficial reforms by implementing the project through a strengthened
ICAR(ED). This division would be responsible for monitoring and shepherding the process
of state and Central legislative action to establish the AEC. An important activity in IDA
supervision would be to track progress in setting up the Council.
3.16  The project promotes important changes in the way the states develop and use human
capital. Progress in implementing these changes might be slowed by the traditional inertia
present in agricultural development departments and SAUs. This risk is reduced by the
widespread institutional and political support in India for reforms built into this project, as
evidenced by the production of sound project proposals by ICAR and the states. In addition,
the mid-term review and other project fora, including supervision missions and Panel
seminars, would provide opportunities to assess progress in introducing changes, share
experiences and take corrective actions to attain objectives. The project's monitoring and
evaluation system should provide a reliable, ongoing gauge of project progress in its various
components and thus help guide timely and appropriate corrective actions.
3.17   Environmental Effects. SAUs have expressed interest in including environmental
courses as integral components of curriculum development. Greater dialogue between the
SAUs and the wider community, includir.g NGOs, would enable grassroots concerns for
environmental issues to be raised for SA7J action, both in the classroom and in research. In
the long-term, the project would foster the production of higher quality graduates more
attuned to environmental choices and issues, better prepared to communicate
technical/business options and opportunities to the farming community and better equipped to
develop public policy and sound managerial decisions based on efficiency and environmental
considerations. The project could have beneficial environmental impact by encouraging
training for staff in public service in environmental topics for agriculture and around specific
environmental issues (e.g., integrated pest management, environment impact studies, pesticide
management and control, sustainable agricultural management).
3.18  Impact on Women. Women traditionally have entered home science programs at
SAUs (which would be strengthened under the project as part of a general university



38
upgrading program), but in recent years have branched out into other disciplines formerly the
preserves of male students. Over the last decade, enrollment of women has increased
significantly to the point where female students often represent one-half of the student body,
such as in Tamil Nadu; in some states like Haryana, however, female enrollment remains at
less than 5%. Accommodations have not kept pace with the increase in enrollment by
women, and existing hostel facilities are taxed severely. Lack of adequate facilities is often
cited as a reason for limited levels of fem-ale enrollment. This problem would be remedied
under the project at participating universities.
IV. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
4.1    Condition of Effectiveness
ICAR(ED) will establish an Accreditation Board satisfactory to IDA (para 3.4).
4.2    Assurances Obtained at Negotiations
(a)    Participating states will provide adequate and earmarked funds to the SAUs on
an annual basis to adequGtely maintain buildings, facilities and equipment (para
2.1 1(c));
(b)    Subsequent to the completion of project-financed studies of higher agricultural
education financial management, the participating states, SAUs and ICAR will
develop a common strategy by June 30, 1997 for discussion at the mid-term
review and at that time would agree on an action plan for implementation (para
2.1 1 (d));
(c)    By December 31, 1995, participating states and SAUs will expand the SAU
Boards of Management to include at least two additional private representatives
of the agricultural sector 'para 2.11(e(i)));
(d)    On or before September 3G, 1995, each SAU will establish in consultation with
the Association a broad-based advisory group to meet at least once each year
to obtain feedback about the preparedness of university graduates and
relevance of their programs and to receive advice about future directions of
university activities (para 2.1 l(e(ii)));
(e)    GOI will make Credit funds available to ICAR and participating states
according to its standard arrangements for developmental assistance to central
agencies and the states (para 2.20);
(f)    By April 30 of each year starting in 1996, an annual implementation plan for
the ICAR activities under the project acceptable to IDA will be approved by a



39
committee consisting of the ICAR Director-General, Deputy Director-General
(ED) and FA of ICAR. The implementation plan for 1995 will be approved in
this way by May 31, 1995 (para 2.20);
(g)   ICAR's Deputy Director-General (ED) will be given adequate powers to use
project funds once annual implementation plans and budgets are approved
without recourse to iterr sanction by the FA (para 2.20);
(h)   By April 30 of each year starting in 1996, an annual implementation plan of
each participating state acceptable to IDA, including the participating
universities, development departments and MAC, would be approved by a
state-level committee consisting of Secretaries of Agriculture and Finance, the
VC(s) of participating universities, the heads of the development departments
and four eminent persons nominated by the Government representing education
and agroindustries. The implementation plan for 1995 will be approved in this
way by May 31, 1995 (para 2.21);
(i)    Project accounts and the Special Account will be maintained and audited
annually according to appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and that the auditor's report, which
will include a separate statement on SOEs and certified copies of project
accounts would be subrritted to IDA not later than nine months after the close
of each fiscal year: (i) by DARE for ICAR and its own expenditures, and (ii)
by each participating state for its own expenditures and those of the
participating universities duly aggregated (para 2.33);
(j)    The Accreditation Board and the sections of the strengthened ICAR(ED) would
be fully operational and staffed with senior persons acceptable to IDA by
September 30, 1995 (para 3.4);
(k)   By June 30, 1995, a Manpower Advisory Council acceptable to IDA will be
established in each participating state (para 3.7(b)); and
(1)    A joint mid-term review  iould be held no later than December 31, 1997
involving DARE, ICAR, GOAP, GOH, GOTN and IDA (para 3.11).
4.3    Understandings Reached at Negotiations
(a)   GOI will release in advance those funds necessary to cover about three months
of anticipated expenditures to GOAP, GOH and GOTN (para 2.32); and
(b)   Upon receipt of these funds from GOI, GOAP, GOH and GOTN will transfer
the funds, together with their own quarterly allocations for the project, to



40
agencies responsible for project implementation, to be used exclusively for
eligible expenditures under the project.
Recommendation
4.4   With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable for an IDA Credit
of SDR 40.5 million (US$59.5 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with 35 years
maturity.
March 7, 1995
Agriculture Operations Division
India Department



INDIA
AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STATE AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITIES, BASIC DATA
1989190
Sanctoned                  1993  1993   Budget                          1991
1"1    Scientific        Teching Intake Intake    000                        Populabon
UNIVERSITY NAME                  Abbreviation Enrolnment   Staff   Cofleges Canpuses UG   PG    Rupes            State        Millions
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY                     AAU              1938       819       7        5  400  167    185500   ASSAM                     22.3
ANDRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY             APAU             3090       1436     14        7  987  425    260018   ANDHRA PRADESH            66.4
BIRSA AGRICULTURAL INIVERSITY                     BAU               767       468       3        1  135  184       89362   BIHAR                   86.3
BIDHAN CHANDRA KRISHI VISHAV VIDHYLYA             BCKWV            1580       332       4        2  239  250    144875   WEST BENGAL               68.0
CHANDRASHEKHAR UNIV. OFAGRI. &TECHNOLOGY          CSUAT            1189       921       3        2  200  205    123255   UTTAR PRADESH            139.0
G.B. PANT UNIV. OF AGRI. & TECHNOLOGY             GBPUAT           2747       886       6        2  354  228    171936   UTTAR PRADESH
NARENDRA DEVA UNIVERSITY OF AGRI. & TECH.         NDUAT             160       640      2         1   70   76       98920   UTTAR PRADESH
GUJARAT AGRICULTURE UNIVERSITY                    GAU               630      1036       9        4  630  277    343780   GUJARAT                   41.2
HARYANA AGRICULTURE UNIVERSITY                    HAU              2290      1409       5        2  340  403    221526   HARYANA                   16.3
HIMACHAL PRADESH KRISHI VISHAV VIDHALYA           HPKVv             551       492       3        1  114   54         492   MADHYA PRADESH          66.1
JAWAHARIAL NEHRU KRISHI VISHAVVIDHALYA            JNKVV-           1812       1210     10        8  490  362    163612   MADHYA PRADESH
INDRA GANDHI KRISHI VIAHWA VIDYALAYA              IGKVV             144        12       3        3   124   30      41708   MADHYA PRADESH
SHER-E-KASHMIR UNIV.OF AGRI.SCIENCE & TECH        SKUASr            500       688       3        2   99   40       98066   JAMMU & KASHMIR          7.7
KERALA AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY                    KAU              1867       997       6        5  345  192    175667   KERALA                    29.0
KONKAN KRISHI VIDYAPEETH                          KKV              1009       445       5        3   187  102      66645   MAHARASHTRA             78.7
MARATHWADA AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY                MAU              1913       648       8        3  477  203    122916   MAHARASHTRA
MAHATMA PHULE AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY             MPALU            2648       1038      6        5  610  175    188938   MAHARASHTRA
PUNJABRAO KRISHI V1DYAPEETH                       PKV              3580       750       6        3  615  176    163364   MAHARASHTRA
ORISSA UNIVERSITY OF AGRICULTURE & TECHNOLOGY    OUAT              2483       672       7        3  268  212       68510   ORISSA                  31.5
PUNJAB AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY                    PAU              2785      1354       5        2  405  459    279154   PUNJAB                    20.2
RAJENDRA AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY                  RAU(P)-          1357      1065       7        4  225  213    176833   RAJASTHAN                 43.9
RAJASTHAN AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY                 RAU(Br           1056      1059       8        3  475  359    177713   RAJASTHAN
UNIVERSITY OF AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES (Bangalore)   UAS(BANG)        2725      1155       9        3  505  310    195320   KARNATAKA                 44.8
UNIVERSITY OF AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES (Dharwad)     UAS(DHAR)        1410       462       8        5  460   68    115177   KARNATAKA
Y.S. PARMAR UNIV. OF HORT.& FORESTRY              YSPUHF            276       318       2        1   67   54       60431   HIMACHAL PRADESH         5.1
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY                TNAU             2552       1533      9        6  579  378    237790   TAMIL NADU                55.6
TAMIL NADU VET. & ANIMAL SCIENCE UNIVERSITY       TNVASU-          1386       606       3        3  250  246    135850   TAMIL NADU
TOTAL           44445     22451    161       89 9650  5848   4107358
921S:1     *Esimabt5
Source: ICAR Copsr Cl. budge andp         19900 1Ina 1992; Univenibes Handbook 1992; Pp    r N A meet  1993.                                             mX



AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOtURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STATE AGRICULTURAL UNVERSTES' BUDGETS, ALLOCATION TOTALS AND PERCENTAGES, loam0
RS 000'
UNIVERSITY NAME                        SAU       TOTAL    Educaion    Resarch    Extension    Adiin    % Ed   %Res   %Ext   %Adm
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY                           AAU          185,500     104,014      37,610        9,445    34,431   56.1    20.3     5.1    18.6
ANDRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY                   APAU         260,018      83,241      84,257       11,139    81,381   32.0    32.4      4.3    31.3
BIRSA AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY                           BAU           89,362      70,140       9,438        9,784        0   78.5    10.6    10.9       0.0
BIDHAN CHANDRA KRISHI VISHAV VIDHYLYA                   BCKVV        144,875     127,360       16,106       1,409        0   87.9    11.1       1.0     0.0
CHANDRA SHEKHAR UNIV. OF AGRI. & TECHNOLOGY             CSUAT        123,255      21,009      62,476        3,508    36,262   17.0    507      2.8    29.4
G.B. PANT UNIV. OF AGRI. & TECHNOLOGY                   GBPUAT       171,936      62,325      41,825        6,578    61,208   36.2    24.3      3.8    35.6
NARENDRA DEVA UNIVERSITY OF AGRI. & TECH.              NDUAT         98920       47,558       33,400       8,372     9,590   48.1    33.8      8.5     9.7
GUJARAT AGRICULTURE UNIVERSITY                          GAU          343,780      92,990      174,391      36,272    40,127   27.0    50.7    10.6    11.7
HARYANA AGRICULTURE UNIVERSITY                          HAU          221,526      51,462      99,227       19,035    51,802   23.2    44.8     8.6    23.4
HIMACHAL PRADESH KRISHI VISHAV VIDHALYA                 HPKVV         89,710      28,880      41,542        6,226    13,062   32.2    46.3     6.9    14.6
JAWAHARIAL NEHRU KRISHI VISHAV VIDHALYA                 JNKVV        163,612      45,444      74,868       22,472    20,828   27.8    45.8    13.7    12.7
INDRA GANDHI KRISHI VIAHWA VIDYALAYA                    IGKVV         41,708       9,255      12,183           0    20,270   22.2    29.2      0.0    48.6
SHER-E-KASHMIR UNIV.OF AGRI.SCIENCE & TECH              SKUAST        98,066      63,854      26,606        4,967    2,639   65.1    27.1      5.1      2.7
KERALA AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY                          KAU          175,667      55,972      67,425        8,430    43,840   31.9    38.4     4.8    25.0
KONKAN KRISHI VIDYAPEETH                                KKV           66.645      34,891      22,501        2,730    6,523   52.4    33.8      4.1      9.8
MARATHWADA AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY                      MAU          122,916      56,422      49,393        3,136    13,965   45.9    40.2     2.6    11.4
MAHATMA PHULE AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY                   MPAU         188,938      69,861      87,955        9.012    22,110   37.0    466      4.8    11.7
PUNJABRAO KRISHI VIDYAPEETH                             PKV          163,364      74,700      63,156        4.020    21,488   45.7    38.7     25    13.2
ORISSAUNIVERSITYOFAGRICULTURE&TECHNOLOGY                OUAT          68,510      18,077      35,649        4,219    10,565   26.4    52.0     6.2    15.4
PUNJAB AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY                          PAU          279,154      77,574      145,279      24,888    31,413   27.8    52.0     8.9    11.3
RAJENDRA AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY                        RAU(P)       176,833      18,542      158,066        225         0   10.5    89.4      0.1      0.0
RAJASTHAN AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY                       RAU(B)       177,713     116,444      51,222       10,021       26   65.5    28.8       5.6     0.0
UNIVERSITY OF AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES (Bangalore)         UAS(B)       195,320      56,574      89,372        3,677    45,697   29.0    45.8      1.9    23 4
UNIVERSITYOFAGRICULTURALSCIENCES(Dharwad)               UAS(D)       115,177      39,195      49,177        9,702    17,103   34.0    427      84      148
Y.S. PARMAR UNIV. OF HORT.& FORESTRY                    YSPUHF        60,431      15,853       36,788       3,013    4,777   26.2    60.9       5.0     7.9
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY                      TNAU         237,790      86,368      121,490       9,081    20,851   36.3    51.1      3.8     8.8
TAMIL NADU VET. & ANIMAL SCIENCE UNIVERSITY             TNVASU        57,341      41,286        8,601       3,440    4,014   72.0    15.0       6,0     7.0
TOTAL      4,118,067    1,569,291   1,700,003     234,801   613,972   38.1    41.3     57      14.9
Source: ICAR Compuer cell, SAUs Budgets and Expenditure 1989/90.                                                                                               lb
m I-



INDIA
AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ICAR CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE STATE AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITIES, 1989/90
TOTAL
CONTRIBUTION
UNIVERSITY NAME                      Abbreviation      Rs "000      Education  Research   Extension  Adrrin % Ed  % Res % Ext % Adm
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY                         AAU                        8995         0       7706       1289      0   0.0   85.7  14.3    0.0
ANDRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY                 APAU                      35627      13944     19707       1631   345  39.1   55.3   4.6    1.0
BIRSA AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY                         BAU                      22122       2900       9438       9784     0  13.1   42.7  44.2    0.0
BIDHAN CHANDRA KRISHI VISHAVVIDHYLYA                  BCKVV                     15250      4150      10774        326      0  27.2   70.6   2.1    0.0
CHANDRA SHEKHAR UNIV. OF AGRI. 8 TECHNOLOGY           CSUAr                     14813         0      11761       3052      0   0.0   79.4  20.6    0.0
G.B. PANT UNIV. OF AGRI. & TECHNOLOGY                 GBPUAT                    15636       834      14802          0      0   5.3   94.7   0.0    0.0
NARENDRA DEVA UNIVERSITY OF AGRI. & TECH.            NDUAT                     28727       5330     18695        4702     0  18.6   65.1  16.4    0.0
GUJARAT AGRICULTURE UNIVERSITY                        GAU                      50248        180      41693       8375      0   0.4   83.0  16.7    0.0
HARYANA AGRICULTURE UNIVERSITY                        HAU                      25702       2333      21247       2122      0   9.1   82.7   8.3    0.0
HIMACHAL PRADESH KRISHI VISHAVVIDHALYA                HPKVV                    26070       5000      18826       2244      0  19.2   72.2   8.6    0.0
JAWAHARIAL NEHRU KRISHI VISHAVVIDHALYA                JNKVV                     57577      7790      31097      18690      0  13.5   54.0  32.5    0.0
INDRA GANDHI KRISHI VIAHWA VIDYALAYA                  IGKVV                     3264          0       3264          0      0   0.0  100.0   0.0    0.0
SHER-E-KASHMIR UNIV.OF AGRI.SCIENCE & TECH            SKUASr                    13969      8150       4512       1307      0  58.3   32.3   9.4    0.0
KERALA AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY                        KAU'                     28263          0      26569       1694      0   0.0   94.0   6.0    0.0
KONKAN KRISHI VIDYAPEETH                              KKV                       4273          0       3314        959      0   0.0   77.6  22.4    0.0
MARATHWADA AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY                    MAU                       10159      2205       6221       1733      0  21.7   61 2  17.1    0.0
MAHATMA PHULE AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY                 MPAU'                     22789        20      21814        955      0   0.1   95.7   4.2    0.0
PUNJABRAO KRISHI VIDYAPEETH                           PKV                       9846       1957       6736       1153      0  19.9   68.4  11.7    0.0
ORISSA UNIVERSITY OF AGRICULTURE & TECHNOLOGY         OUAT                      17849      1360      14545       1944      0   7.6   81.5  10.9    0.0
PUNJAB AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY                        PAU                      47994       7168      37494       3332      0  14.9   78 1   6.9    00
RAJENDRA AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY                      RAUIP)-                  21639       3377      18037        225      0  156   83 4   1 0      0.0
RAJASTHAN AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY                     RAU(B)-                  44339      18400      20677       5236    26  41.5   46.6  11 8      1.0
UNIVERSITY OF AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES (Bangalore)       UAS(BANG)                48159       2803      43616       1740      0   5.8   90.6   3.6    0.0
UNIVERSITY OF AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES (Dharwad)         UAS(DHAR)                 22044      5024      15343       1677      0  22.8   69.6   7.6    00
Y.S. PARMAR UNIV. OF HORT.& FORESTRY                  YSPUHF                    15082      1000      13905        177      0   6.6   92.2   1 2     0.0
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY                    TNAU                      46338         0      44715       1623      0   0.0   96.5   3 5     0.0
TAMIL NADU VET. & ANIMAL SCIENCE UNIVERSITY           TNVASU                    24720      17798      3708       1483  1730  72.0   15.0   6 0      7 0
TOTAL                   681494     111723    490216       77453  2101  164   71.9  11.4    0.3
'88189
Source: ICAR computer cell, SAU Budgets and Expenditure 1989/90.                                                                                              m
W -



44
;



45
Annex 2
Page 1 of 8
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Toward Excellence in Higher Agricultural Education:
Strengthening ICAR's Education Division
1.    Background. The breath and seriousness of the problems plaguing higher agricultural
education are appreciated increasingly in India and are seen as important constraints to overall
sectoral development. Unless quality manpower is generated with the right skill mix and
aptitudes consistent with labor market needs, agricultural performance is bound to suffer.
Norms and standards at state agricultural universities (SAUs) and private colleges have
deteriorated significantly over the last two decades, in large part for lack of a central
governing body with powers to set and enforce standards. ICAR, entrusted with the mandate
to "plan, undertake, aid, promote and coordinate education, research and its application in
agriculture, agroforestry, animal husbandry, fisheries, home science and allied sciences",
limits its assistance and accreditation functions to the SAUs. Agricultural colleges under
general universities are outside its purview.
2.    ICAR's Education Division (ED) currently operates through a number of committees
and schemes: (a) the Norms and Accreditation Committee provides norms for financial
assistance to the SAUs, determines norms for accreditation and periodically assesses
performance of the SAUs. The Scientific Panel offers advice and recommendations on
research related to educational programs, on technical matters and on the norms for
maintenance of standards and improvement of agricultural education. The Curriculum
Committee is constituted to provide advice to the SAUs for modifying and updating course
curricula.
3.    ICAR(ED) has the following ongoing programs: (a) strengthening and development of
infrastructure for agricultural education; (b) recognition of professional excellence; (c)
professional resource utilization; (d) manpower development in agricultural education; and (e)
the National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM). ICAR(ED)
currently has 43 staff organized into three groups (Chart 1). In addition, within the ED there
are 36 staff coordinating the implementation of the National Agricultural Research Project II
(Cr. 1631-IN). Each group is headed by an Assistant Director-General or a principal scientist.
4.    ICAR(ED) is hampered by the following constraints: (a) an absence of statutory
authority; (b) lack of suitable manpower support and equipment for planning and effective
monitoring of SAU schemes and use of funds; and (c) lack of mechanisms for developing
norms, regulating educational programs and providing technical support for education
improvement.



46                               Annex 2
Page 2 of 8
5.    Accreditation and Standards. In 1965 ICAR assumed the responsibility of the
University Grants Commission (UGC) of regulating academic standards and disbursing central
funds to the SAUs. For this purpose, ICAR maintains a Norms and Accreditation Committee
consisting of the Director-General of ICAR, the Chairman or his nominee of the UGC, five
vice-chancellors from the SAUs and the Deputy Director-General (ICAR(ED)). The
Committee meets too infrequently: it has held only three meetings since 1988. Since this
committee has no statutory authority to enforce norms and standards, the obligation for
maintenance of standards rests effectively with each university, which increasingly lacks the
needed resources to carry out this responsibility. In the ICAR/SAU context, accreditation has
come to mean eligibility for central financial support. In summary, the Norms and
Accreditation Committee has not been able to set standards. The Committee currently lacks a
mechanism for regularly reviewing the performance of SAUs, the ten-year "Deans
Committee" assessment of curriculum development notwithstanding.
6.    Central Funding for Education. Central assistance from ICAR to the SAUs is
provided under the scheme for the "Development and Strengthening of Agricultural
Universities". Over time, the Norms and Accreditation Committee has developed a list of
eligible items that are funded in each plan period by ICAR. Some items are financed on a
100% basis by ICAR; others require a contribution of varying levels from the respective state
governments. Each item specifies how the funds are to be used, while most have specified
expenditure ceilings. Additionally, there is an overall ceiling on grants available to each
SAU. If funds are under-utilized or not accessed because of lack of matching state funds,
allocated resources remain with ICAR or are re-allocated to other SAUs. Funds cannot be
transferred from one item-category to another. The list of items eligible for support has a
strong concentration on development of new infrastructure without proper recognition of the
need to strengthen, maintain or renovate existing buildings, equipment and programs. Each
SAU submits a standard form requesting central assistance and provided that the guidelines
are followed, funding is generally approved. The Norms and Accreditation Committee does
not require that each SAU be evaluated to determine the effective use of previous grants.
7.    Until the end of the Third Plan (1970), little support was received from the UGC or
Ministry of Agriculture/ICAR for agricultural education. In the Fourth Plan (1969-74),
Rs 242.1 million (US$32.2 million) was provided following the UGC pattern of funding to
general universities which required matching funds from the states for all items of assistance.
This proved to be impracticable as the universities found that states could not meet their
contributions, and consequently access to ICAR grants was thwarted. During this plan period,
ICAR approved a new pattern of assistance with provision for 100% financing of specified
items, subject to a ceiling of Rs 20 million per SAU. During the Fifth Plan, a major change
in the SAU system occurred with the establishment of more than one SAU in any one state,



Annex 2
Page 3 of 8
in contravention of the Model Act.' SAU support levels were raised to Rs 25 million for a
single university per state; but in cases where there were 3-4 per state, the financial assistance
was reduced to Rs 15 million per university. In subsequent plan periods, total assistance
allocations increased, the number of eligible items for support was raised and the per SAU
support levels grew. Under the Eighth Plan (1992-1997), central funding of SAUs totals
Rs 750 million (US$26 million2).
8.     Based on 1989/90 data, SAU budgets totalled Rs 4.1 billion (US$247 million) with
wide variation across universities (Annex 1, Table 2). Research claimed the highest
percentage of university funds (41.3%), with education, administration and extension support
claiming 38.1%, 14.9% and 5.7%, respectively. State governments assumed the major
financing responsibility for SAUs, with assistance from GOI through ICAR for selected
activities. About 3% of funding comes from other sources such as grants, contracts and
proceeds from foundation seed and farm product sales. There are marked differences across
states in the level of financial support accorded to SAUs (Annex 1, Table 2).
9.    In 1989/90, ICAR contributed Rs 681.4 million (US$40.9 million) to the 27 SAUs,
representing about 17% of SAU budgetary requirements. Only about 16% of ICAR assistance
was for education-related activities while about 72% was for research, 11% for extension
support and less than 1% for administration. ICAR's fund allocation policy has been based
on equally spreading the total funds available to all SAUs, taking into account the number of
SAUs in each state--a policy which has not necessarily yielded highest returns to ICAR
assistance. A number of changes have been introduced to curb the establishment of new
state-level institutions/colleges, create linkage with state contributions and incentivate quality
improvement programs such as libraries and student amenities. These, however, have proved
difficult to implement. Finance is the only real mechanism the ICAR currently has to
influence SAUs, but given that the proportion of an individual SAU's budget coming from
ICAR is small and given that ICAR funding is virtually automatic, ICAR has exerted minimal
control.
Agricultural Education Council
10.   The project fosters the establishment of an Agricultural Education Council (AEC) with
statutory powers to set norms and standards in agricultural education and their
implementation. Formation of AEC is seen as long-term goal. In the interim, the project
would strengthen the ICAR(ED) to carry out the functions envisaged for the AEC. Each
SAU in the participating states would sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with
While there has been a proliferation of SAUs beyond the Model Act's intent of one per state and while some
of this proliferation has defied reason and squandered scarce resources, under certain circumstances having more
than one SAU per state is justified in view of the large physical size of selected states and the logistical
difficulties imposed by the management of the complex networks of campuses.
2  Based on a 40-60% weighted average of the official and market rates, April 1992-March 1993.



48                               Annex 2
Page 4 of 8
ICAR in which it agrees to abide by the norms and standards prescribed by ICAR's
Accreditation Board during the interim period until the AEC comes into existence. Under the
project, ICAR would develop the capability to set and monitor norms and standards and to
formalize a sound accreditation system affecting higher agricultural education nationwide.
Strengthening ICAR's Education Division
11.   ICAR(ED)'s current organization is presented in Chart 1. It would be reorganized and
strengthened under the project in accordance with Chart 2 to accommodate the new and
enhanced functions described below. The revised structure is designed to focus activities in
only five areas of function, thus providing for a focused, coordinated and effective
organization. Each of the four sections of the new structure would be headed by appropriate,
experienced and qualified senior staff at the Assistant Director-General/Principal Scientist
level. Some of the positions would be filled by qualified officers currently within ICAR(ED).
The strengthened ICAR(ED) has been designed to anticipate the organizational needs of AEC.
12.   The functions of the organizational units of a strengthened ICAR(ED) are described
below:
(a) Office of the Deputy Director-General (Education). It would:
(i)    Manage the ICAR(ED) as if the division had statutory authority in
relation to the participating SAUs in the project in particular and other
reorganized institutions in general.
(ii)   Maintain overall responsibility for the implementation of the project.
(iii)   Administer, manage and coordinate the sections of the ED and the
Accreditation Board.
(iv)   Pursue the formation of the Agricultural Education Council.
(v)   Provide improved management and support systems and develop
modern infrastructure for ED's operation.
(vi)  Support special projects.
(viii)  Assist DARE to support and coordinate AHRDP.
(b)   Accreditation Board. The Accreditation Board would replace the existing
Norms and Accreditation Committee. The Board would meet at least four
times per year to receive and deliberate on advice from special committees
(e.g., Committees on New Universities/Colleges/Programs, Norms, Curriculum,
Equivalence, and Governance/Personnel Policies). The thirteen-member



49                                     Annex 2
Page 5 of 8
Accreditation Board would have the following composition, which has been
developed with the view to engender unity of purpose, professional status,
legitimacy, credibility and technical competence:3
(i)           Director-General (ICAR) - Chairman
(ii)          Deputy Director-General (ICAR(ED))
(iii)         Secretary (University Grants Commission)
(iv)          Secretary (All-India Council for Technical Education)
(v)           Secretary, Veterinary Council of India
Appointed for three-year terms:
(vi-viii)     Three SAU Vice-Chancellors
(ix)          Director of a Deemed University of ICAR
(x-xi)        Two eminent agricultural educators (animal science, plant
science)
(xii-xiii)    Two eminent agroindustrialists
The proposed functions and responsibilities of the Board would be to:
(i)    Establish national agricultural course classifications, length, standards
and nomenclature.
(ii)    Evaluate all existing courses to determine standards and identify
deficiencies, and remove accreditation where necessary.
(iii)   Provide accreditation for new programs before they can be offered.
(iv)   Establish norms for staffing, facilities, equipment and other resources
for all courses at SAUs and other recognized institutions.
(v)    Regularly review all courses to ensure maintenance of standards.
3 The Assistant Director-General (Accreditation) would be Secretary to the Board.



50
Annex 2
Page 6 of 8
(vi)   Determine appropriate actions on recommendations of various
committees.
(vii)  Prescribe subjects for entry into SAUs and develop norms for
undergraduate teaching.
(viii)  Develop norms to select faculty for postgraduate teaching.
(ix)   Develop norms for the conduct of examinations.
(x)   Develop norms for teacher assessment.
(xi)  Provide norms for entry requirements for Bachelors, Masters and Ph.D.
programs.
(c)   Education Planning and Development Section. The following functions
currently carried out by the Education II group within ICAR(ED) would be
continued and enhanced within this new section:
(i)    Assess the development needs and sanction grants to SAUs and other
approved institutions.
(ii)   Provide funds to the SAUs for the development of educational activities.
(iii)  Provide internal competence advisory services.
Additional responsibilities would be to:
(i)   Establish a project preparation capability.
(ii)   Monitor the activities of the SAUs and the development of higher
agricultural education in general.
(iii)  Develop criteria for establishing centers of excellence in teaching.
(iv)  Establish computer systems for teaching and management.
(v)   Operate an Educational Technology and Development Unit.
(vi)  Coordinate library networking and information systems.
(vii)  Develop a database on agricultural higher education and provide
information services.



51                                 Annex 2
Page 7 of 8
(viii) Prepare agricultural human resources development projects.
(d)   Human Resources Development Section. The following functions currently
carried out by the Education I, II and III groups within ICAR(ED) would be
continued and enhanced under this new section:
(i)    Coordinate/provide awards, scholarships, fellowships and emeritus
positions.
(ii)   Coordinate a program to encourage teachers and scientists to write
books for use in the agricultural education system.
(iii)  Organize orientation and refresher training for teachers including the
present summer institutes program for junior teachers.
(iv)   Sponsor the annual Best Teacher Award.
Additional functions and responsibilities would be:
(i)    Establish a manpower needs assessment cell to operate in collaboration
with the Manpower Advisory Councils at the state-level to assess
manpower requirements and trends (i.e., labor market intelligence) in
agricultural education, research and extension in both the public and
private sectors.
(ii)   Coordinate the sabbatical leave program.
(iii)  Conduct All-India examinations for fellowships/scholarships and
admissions.
(iv)   Conduct/coordinate ICAR(ED)'s internal staff training.
(v)   Coordinate inter-institutional cooperative arrangements with overseas
universities and institutions.
(vi)  Provide funds for senior education managers at the SAUs and
ICAR(ED) to make short-term study visits abroad to enhance
management skills.
(vii)  Develop norms for examination systems at the SAUs.
(e)   Administrative and Finance Section. The enhanced ICAR(ED) would have
its own administration and finance section to provide better financial
management and control of its activities. It would:



52                                  Annex 2
Page 8 of 8
(i)    Carry out all the administrative and finance functions of ICAR(ED).
(ii)   Develop and use improved budgeting, accounting, auditing and reporting
systems for ICAR(ED).
(iii)  Provide advice to the SAUs and other educational institutions on issues
related to administration and finance.
(iv)   Release grants to SAUs.
(v)   Handle other administrative matters.



Annex 2
Chart 1
INDIA
AGRICUTLURAL HUMAN RESOURCES DZVZLOPMZNT PROJECT
Zxistina  Oraaizational  Structure  of ICAR Education  Division
ICAR COUNCIL
DIRECTOR-GENERAL  1
DEPUTY
DIRECTOR-GENERAL
EDUCATION DIVISION
E                EDUCATION                        EDUCATION CTO
COMMITTEES
- Nom8s & Accreditahon
-Education Panel
-  Examinaions                   - Intemal Competence            Book Writing
- Scholarships                    University development        - Summer Instiutes
- Fellowships                     grants                       - National Professoms/
- Emeritus positions             - Conferences/meetings         Fellows
-Mscellaneous                - Admissans under ICAR
quota



Annex 2
54                                   Chart 2
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Oreanizational Structure - Enhanced ICAR Zducation Division
ICAR COUNCIL
I
| DIRECTOR-GEN HAL   l
DEPUTY
DIRECTOR-GENERAL
EDUCATION
| ACCREDITATION BOARD    l
I.I                           I       I         =
EDUCATION                 HUMAN RESOURCE          ADMINISTRATION
PLANNING & DEVELOPMENT            DEVELOPMENT              & FINANCE
UNIVERSfTY                  MANPOWER
DEVELOPMENT &                 ASSESSMNT                  BUDGETING
GRANTS IN AID                                          ACCOUNTING &
REPORTlNG
MONITORING &              EXAMINATION UNIT            ESTABUSHMENT
PROJECT    _
PREPARATION
INTERNAL                 SCHOLARSHIPS
COMIPETENCE                FELLOWSHIPS
ADVISORY                EMERITUS AWARDS
SERVICES
ORIENTATION &
REFRESHER
EDUCATION                  TRAINING FOR
TECHNOLOGY &                  TEACHERS
DEVELOPMENT
SUBBATICAL LEAV
LIBRARY
NETWORKING &
INFORMATICS                  CENTRE FOR
ADVANCED
INFORMATION                   STUDIES
SERVICES & DATA
BASE
NAITONAL
PROFESSORS &
NATIONAL
FELLOWS
CENTERS OF
EXCELLENCE



55
ANNEX 3
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
a.    ICAR Higher Agricultural Education Strategy Paper: Future Directions and Strategies
in Agricultural Education
b.    ICAR Action Matrix
c.    Accreditation Board: Terms-of-Reference
d.    MOUs Among ICAR, Participating SAUs and State Governments
e.    Common SAU Action Matrix



56



Annex 3a
57                                   Page 1 of 5
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Future Directions and Strategies in Agricultural Education
Much of the progress achieved in the agricultural sector over the last 30 years is
attributable to the role of ICAR and the state agricultural university system. The state
agricultural universities (SAUs) are autonomous institutions set up by the states for the
purpose of carrying out the functions of agricultural education, research and extension
support. The establishment, governance and objectives of each SAU is based largely on the
Model Act developed by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) in 1966 and
modified in 1981, which has been a reference to provide uniformity across states as well as a
legal basis for development.
The Indian Council of Agricultural Research is the national apex coordinating body
providing overall guidance in agricultural research and in promoting agricultural education.
Its Education Division (ED) strives to establish, strengthen and sustain an institutional system
of higher agricultural education to provide the scientific and technical manpower required for
research, educational, managerial and development activities within the sector.
Following a period of growth, development and international contact in the 1960-70s,
the SAUs reached a plateau of achievement in the early 1980s and afterwards witnessed
decline. By 1989 experts concluded that the quality of graduates in various disciplines of
agricultural sciences was falling and that there was an urgent need for SAUs to give attention
to upgrading agricultural education quality and standards.
Problems identified include the establishment of new agricultural universities
regardless of the needs for manpower in the agricultural sector, education programs not being
subject to effective accreditation resulting in a lack of uniformity and lowering of standards
and quality, wide variation in examination and evaluation systems, lack of mobility of staff
and students between universities and states and the absence of modem teaching techniques.
Overall, in most of the agricultural universities, there is a lack of modem management
systems, with often poor library and other teaching facilities. The future direction must be to
improve the standard, quality and relevance of Agricultural Education in India. This may
require establishment of a regulating mechanism, re-organization of support systems and the
introduction of new schemes to address identified issues. To achieve these objectives, the
following policies and strategies will be pursued:



58                              Annex 3a
Page 2 of 5
Regulation and Accreditation of Agricultural Education:
Accreditation is a process of quality assurance whereby an approved institution or
program is critically appraised at intervals by a group of external peers as to whether an
institution or programme meets the norms and standards prescribed by the Council from time
to time. Such a mechanism is not operating at present. ICAR and the Participating States
shall work toward establishing an Agricultural Education Council as a long-term goal with
statutory powers to set and enforce standards. Until an appropriate institutional arrangement
with statutory powers is made by the ICAR and SAUs, this would be achieved through a
suitable Memorandum of Understanding with the SAUs and State Governments. In addition,
ICAR(ED) should be suitably expanded and strengthened with an appropriate Accreditation
Board for regulating and accrediting agricultural education.
Institutional Need:
It is presumed that the infrastructure and admission capacity developed so far in the
SAUs, deemed-to-be universities, and the central universities, are sufficient to meet the
institutional need for developing the necessary manpower in agriculture and allied sectors for
the next 10-15 years.
Therefore, the ICAR will not support the establishment of any new institutions unless
the proposal is fully supported with clear manpower needs, employment opportunities and
commitment of the State Government. At the same time, efforts should be directed towards
consolidation and strengthening of the existing agricultural education institutions and system
with a forward-looking orientation based on the optimum utilization of existing capacity.
Manpower Assessment:
The absence of suitable manpower assessment at the State/SAU/Central levels has
resulted in unplanned growth in certain disciplines and lack of attention to others. Therefore,
manpower studies should be taken up at SAU and State levels and coordinated by ICAR(ED)
with the assistance of the Institute of Applied Manpower Research.
Interstate Mobility of Teachers and Students:
In view of the restricted admission and recruitment policies, the interstate mobility of
teachers and students has become negligible which has resulted in academic inbreeding and
the lowering of standards. Interstate mobility of teachers and students will be promoted
through scholarships/fellowships and suitable incentive schemes. Better personnel policies
including provisions for sabbatical leave for teachers and provision for admission to other
universities on reciprocal basis will also be introduced. In addition, proportions of seats at
undergraduate and postgraduate levels in SAUs will be filled on an All-India basis.



Annex 3a
Page 3 of 5
Teacher Competence:
The improvement of teacher competence will have high priority and suitable schemes
including the identification of core teachers, developing norms for teaching, instituting
mechanisms for teacher and student evaluation, and providing training in pedagogy,
educational technology and management will be developed for this purpose. Teacher
competence will also be improved through the establishment of centers of advanced
studies/excellence and by providing short/long term training in reputed institutions in India
and abroad.
Agricultural Education Technology:
The lack of a program in agricultural education technology and management has
resulted not only in insufficient application of modern teaching methods and aids in the
agricultural educational system, but the system is also deprived of systematic studies and
innovations. Therefore, efforts will be made to support and develop educational technology
units and programs in the State Agricultural Universities, the Deemed Universities and the
National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM), Hyderabad with a
coordinating unit at the ICAR(ED).
Curricula:
In order to develop relevant and needs-based curricula to meet the requirement of
changing agricultural scenarios, suitable mechanisms including participation of user-agencies
at appropriate levels will be pursued. Mechanisms will be put in place for the development,
continuous monitoring as well as updating of curricula and examination and evaluation
systems.
Library and Information Services:
The lack of adequate resources and absence of modernization has severely affected the
effectiveness of libraries and information services as well as access to scientific literature.
This problem will be dealt with on a priority basis through suitable schemes/programs such as
equipping the SAU libraries with computerized information storage, retrieval and management
systems, as well as library networking.
Management Systems:
Many sectors of higher agricultural education suffer from a lack of effective
management and administration. Often seniority is the more important determinant of
appointments than ability, and the practice of rotating important posts like deans and heads of
departments creates dislocations. Promotion of teaching staff, until recently, has been based
largely on length of service and less on competence. Students unrest--a frequent feature of
SAU campuses--is often the result of inadequate administration. Financial backing for



60                      ~~~~~~~Annex 3a
60                                Page 4 of 5
academic programs is restricted severely, and little managerial experience or training is
offered to senior academic staff. Data processing facilities are too meager to handle even the
basic necessities of university administration and fiscal controls. Proliferation of
colleges/campuses under each SAU has led to taxing university administration, the dilution of
scarce resources, and thereby adversely affecting standards.
This problem will be dealt with through policy and institutional changes that will
provide for the upgrading of management skills and performance, the continuity of
infrastructural maintenance and appropriate budget support.
Instructional Facilities:
Much of the infrastructure and equipment available in the Agricultural University
system has become obsolete and unserviceable which has a direct bearing on the standard and
quality of education. Assistance would be provided to universities for the improvement of
classroom and laboratory facilities including replacement of obsolete equipment and other
instructional units, such as farms, veterinary clinics and workshops.
Text Books:
The dearth of suitable text books by Indian authors is considered as an important
constraint of effective teaching and the learning process. Production of text books and
scientific literature would be encouraged and supported through a suitable scheme.
ICAR Support System:
For setting norms, accreditation and regulation of agricultural education programs and
for the coordination and monitoring of educational schemes, the support system of the
ICAR(ED) would be reoriented and modernized with necessary facilities and computer-trained
staff.
Deemed Universities:
The Deemed Universities of ICAR have to play a major role in development of
Agricultural Education due to the availability of expertise and better facilities and linkages
with research and educational institutions at the national and international levels.
However, their role will be complementary to the educational programs of the State
and Central Agricultural Universities and their focus will be towards education and training in
specialized and emerging areas. They may restrict their educational activities to doctoral and
post-doctoral programs and only in specialized areas for Masters programs.



61                                Annex 3a
Page 5 of 5
Central Universities:
The agricultural education programs in the Central Universities will be assisted to
promote agricultural education in selected fields and brought under the norms set by the
ICAR.
Agricultural Colleges Outside the SAUs:
The question of improvement and continuing the agricultural colleges outside the SAU
systems will be taken up with respective State Governments in accordance with the Council's
norms.



INDIA
AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ICAR Education Division Action Matrix
Promhleul  Imp ac                                              Solution         Poicy Adjustmt          bltntloxa             Resdts/Monitomble
_     _ _ _ _ _ _ . _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                  C h. nge      .ndicators/O utcombs
Lack of accreditation    Educational programs are not subject to  Establishment of an  Amendments to the    Norms and           The Accreditation Board
of educational         accreditation resulting in a lack of   Accreditation Board     bylaws of ICAR.      Accreditation        would be established by
programs.              uniformity, adversely affecting of     with various                                 Committee to be      31 May, 1995.
standards and quality.                 committees to set up                         replaced by the
norms and to accredit                       Accreditation Board.  All states participating would
universities and their                                           have signed MOUs with
academic programs.                                               ICAR to abide by the
ICAR(ED)'s norms and
standards by
October 15, 1994.
Lack of monitoring of   Inability to access the development needs   Establishment of  None                 A monitoring unit    By 31 August, 1995, the
the developmental     and proper utilization of central assistance   monitoring unit                       would be established  ICAR(ED) would be
activities of SAUs and   to SAUs. Large-scale variation in                                                in ICAR(ED).          strengthened by: (a)
their educational      examination and evaluation systems.                                                                      provisions of appropriate
programs including     Adversely affects development and                                                                        offices and facilities, and (b)
examination and       standard of education.                                                                                    appointment of staff to fill
evaluation systems.                                                                                                             positions in the restructured
ICAR(ED).
o >



ProblemU                         inpa&t solution                                    Policy Aljustment        institutional        RmltuMosltorble
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ca X   g      dkOaUsottm 
Lack of manpower        Paucity of information on: (a) the       Establishment of        None                  Establish a           Manpower Cell would be
needs assessment        available manpower in different          manpower assessment                           Manpower Cell at       established by 30 August,
disciplines, and (b) the requirement of  cell in ICAR with                             ICAR(ED)               1995.
manpower in both commercial and public   appropriate
agricultural sectors. This has resulted in    collaborative
faulty planning and inappropriate growth    arrangements with
in manpower and development in           suitable institutes
agriculture and allied fields.           which would have
linkages with the
Manpower Advisory
Councils of
states/SAUs.
Restrictive admission   Lack of mobility of students from one    Continuation of         SAUs to reserve at    None                   SAU Academic Councils of
policies of SAUs        state to another resulting in inbreeding,  existing program to   least 15% of                                Participating States would
limited access to extemal sources of     promote mobility of     postgraduate                                adopt a policy to reserve at
information and a consequent lowering of   students through the  admission capacity                          least 15% of postgraduate
standards.                               award of fellowships.    for students from                          capacity for students from
Establishment of        other states.                               other states. Selection would
Examination Unit in                                                 be through All-India
ICAR(ED)                                                            examinations conducted by
ICAR. This policy would be
in place by 15 October, 1995.
The examination unit at
ICAR(ED) would be
established by
31 August, 1995.
o>
x
IQ2



pr.ip                                                          Sola.=           Policy Adjustnen_ ,   l_dttiXonl
Limited use of         Lack of innovation in agricultural      Establishment of       None                 None                 Education technology units
education technology    education due to lack of education     education technology                                             would be set up at the
in agricultural        technology. Trained staff not available in   units in SAUs with                                          ICAR(ED) and at the
education.             the field. Teacher competence and       linkages to a                                                    participating SAUs by
curriculum development are adversely   strengthened unit at                                              30 June, 1995.
affected.                              NAARM and with a
coordinating unit in
ICAR(ED)
Lack of suitable       Low efficiency and delayed processing of   Providing computer  None                 Necessary            By 31 March 1997: (a)
manpower and modem   papers. Lack of proper maintenance of     facilities, support staff,                  strengthening and    modem electronic office
facilities in         records, retrieval and monitoring.       training and adequate                       reorganization of    systems and equipment would
ICAR(ED)/DARE and                                              accommodation for                           ICAR(ED).            be purchased, (b) suitably
in ICAR/DARE units                                            ICAR(ED) and                                                      qualified staff would be
supporting ED.                                                 modemization of units                                            recruited, and (c) existing
in ICAR supporting                                               staff would undertake training
ED.                                                              programs to enable them to
effectively use new facilities.
I-ta



Pr*iem                          Impact                         Solution@         P_ A_b_t t                                                    _ 0  _ 1   l  l
__________  _________________  _______hp                                W 14d0          _        l
Poor access to         Lack of access to scientific information  Establishment of a    None                 None                  By 31 March, 1997: (a)
scientific information    and innovative modem technologies in  networking system,                                                computer equipment for the
and lack of a modem    agricultural education. Lack of         inter-connecting                                                   libraries at 23 SAUs and four
computer-based data    competence in project planning,         SAUs/ICAR to serve                                                 deemed universities would be
access and retrieval   monitoring and use of electronic        the needs of teachers,                                            installed; (b) all these units
information technology.                 students and                                                      would be networked to the
management.                                                       ICAR(ED), and (c) a library
network and information
services unit at ICAR would
be established.
Lack of statutory      ICAR has no statutory power over the    To have an              Establish the AEC    As an interim step,   ICAR and the Participating
powers for the ICAR    SAUs and other institutions in establishing   Agricultural Education    with statutory  the reoranization  States shall work toward
to regulate and        new colleges/programs, resulting in the  Council (AEC) as a     powers.              and strengthening     establishing an AEC as a
coordinate agricultural   multiplication of institutions and   statutory body with                          of ICAR(ED).         long-term goal, with
education in the       programs, and the lowering of educational  necessary authority and                                         statutory powers to set and
country.               standards. This proliferation results in  financial resources.                                             enforce standards.
wastage of manpower, unemployment and                                                                                                   a
underemployment.
N >
X D
oQ 5
X (D
.p X
o 



66                               Annex 3c
Pagel of 2
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Accreditation Board: Terms-of-Reference
Objectives
Accreditation is a process of quality assurance whereby an approved institution or
programme is critically appraised at intervals by a group of external peers as to whether an
institution or programme meets the norms and standards prescribed by the Council from time
to time. Accreditation is intended to accomplish the following objectives:
1.   to assist the people, prospective students, educational institutions, professional
societies, potential employers, Government and other concerned agencies in
identifying those institutions and their programmes which meet the minimum
norms and standards prescribed by the Council; and
2.   to provide guidance for the improvement of existing agricultural education
institutions/programmes and also to develop new institutions/programmes.
Functions of the Board:
1.   to advise the Council in evolving the norms and standards for accreditation of
institutions and programmes of agricultural education;
2.   to assist the Council for the matters pertaining to approval, recognition,
inspection and funding of agricultural educational institutions;
3.   to evaluate the academic programme and the institutional environment in which
these programmes are conducted;
4.    to periodically assess the curricula of various degree programmes offered by
the State Agricultural Universities and other approved institutions and suggest
modifications required;
5.   to decide the Equivalence of Qualifications;
6.    To lay down Norms and Standards of courses, curricula, instructional facilities,
teaching staff qualification and requirements of admission; and
7.    To provide guidance on University Governance and personnel policies.



Annex 3c
67                                Page2 of 2
Composition of the Board'
1.    Director-General (ICAR)                             Chairperson
2.    Deputy-Director-General (ICAR(ED))                   Vice-Chairperson
3-5.  Three Vice-Chancellors of SAUs
(to be nominated by DARE)
6-7.  Two eminent agricultural/animal scientists
(to be nominated by DARE)
8-9.  Two members representing the agricultural
and animal science industries (to be
nominated by DARE)
10.   Secretary, University Grants Commission              Ex-Officio
11.   Secretary, All-India Council of Technical
Education                                           Ex-Officio
12.   Director of one ICAR Deemed University
(on rotation)
13.   Secretary, Veterinary Council of India
Assistant DG/Principal Scientist
in charge of the Board                              Secretary
Sectoral Committees of the Board
1.    Committee on norms, new universities, colleges and programs.
2.    Committee on curriculum and equivalence.
3.    Committee on governance and personnel policies.
Except for ex-officio members, Board members would serve three-year terms.



68                        Annex 3d
Page 1 of 4
MOU BETWEEN INDIAN COUNCIL OF AGRICULTURAL RESI,ARCH,
STATE AGRICUI.TURAL UNIVERSITIEIS AND STATE GOVERNMENTS:
(1)   The Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University agree
to executivc the project as per terms and conditions
of   the  Agricultural   lluman  Resource   Development
Project.
(2)   The University agree:-
(i)- to follow the norms and guidelines laid down by
Indian   Council    of   Agricultural   Research    on
Agricultural education with regard to maintenance of
standards   of   education,    regulations   regarding
admission   requirements,   couoses,   examination   and
evaluation system, instructional facilities, teachinc
staff pattern etc.
(ii)-  to  take   all  siuch  actions   required   foLr
strengthening of the educational programmes and will.
not   establish   new   departments/colleges   without
clearance of Indian Council of-Acjricultural Rescarch.
(iii)- to provide the manpower data and informationi
related, to students, staff and academic programmes to
the Council.
(iv)-  to  reservc  seats  in  Baclhelor,  Master  an6
Doctoral programmes for students from other States as
per Indian Council of Agricultural Research norms.
(v)-  to permit  visit  of  representatives  of  Indiai,
Council of Agricultural Research/ World Bank to assess
the progress of implementation of the project.
SECRETARY TO STATE
GOVERNMENT OF A.P.
VICE-CIIANCELLOIt
ANDIIRA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY
DY.DIR CTOR GENERAL(Edn)
INDIAN COUNCIL OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCII



Annex 3d
69                                Page    f 4
O)U )between (CCS  -laryana A ricylLtmal University, llisar and Agriculture
Ilepart nwiui liiarYanI.3 ,Chanl iarlis;l 
(I)    CCS liaryana Agricultural UnivcrsiLy agrec to cxccutc thc project
as per tcrms and( conclition.s ot thc AHIRD Project.
(2)     lle LUnuiversity .I;ie:-
(i)     to folluw  thc norms and guidelines laid down by ICAR on Agril.
education withi rcgard to maintenance of standards of cducation, regulations
regardinlg admission rcquircments, courscs, examination and cvaluation
system, instructional facilitics, teaciiing staff pattcrn ctc.
to takc all sucli actions requircd fur strcmn1lh1- ng of thc cducational
programmes and  will not establish  ncw  dcpartmcnts/collcges without
clearance of ICAIR.
(iii)   to  providc manpower data and  information rclatcd  to students,
staff academic programmiic of Council.
(iv)    to  rcscrve scats in  laclhclor, Mastcr and  Doctoral programncs
for students fro;ii othler States as per ICAII norimis.
(v)    to permit visit of reprcsentatives of ICAR/World Dank to assess
the progrcss of implcnicntation of the project.
Commissiol            ry  o                        vicca l,
Govcrniicnt, Haryana,                    CCS Haryana Agril. University,
Agriculturc Department,                                HISAR.
Chandigarh.
Dy.Director Gcneral,
ICAR,Ncw Dcl hi.



70                                 Annex 3 d
Page 3 of 4
MIOU  between ICAR, State  Agricultural Universities and State  Governments
(1)    The Tarnil Nadu Agricultural University agree to execute the project
as per terms auid conditions of the AHRD Project.
(2) 7he University agree:-
. (i)  - to follow  the norms and guidelines laid down by ICAR on Agricultural
education  with regard  to  mnainteniance  of standards of education,
regulations  regarding  admission  rcquirements,  courses,  examination
and evaluation system, instructional facilities, teaching staff pattern
etc.
(ii)    - to talce. all suchi actions required for strengUiening of .the educational
programines and  will not establish new  departments/colleges without
clearance of ICAR.
(iii)    - to provicle the manpower data and inforniationi related to students,
staff and academic programrnes to the Council.
(iv)    - to reserve seats in Bachelor, Alastcr and Doctoral programmes for
students from otlier States as per ICAR norms.
(v)    - to permit visit of representatives of ICAR/World Bank to assess thc
progress of implementation of the project.
Secretar to Statce.                                       h       Vic      e-CCh
Government                                 of Tamil Nadu Agricultu       niv      Ifni
Deputy Director Gencral, ICAR
I~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                    , . 



71                                     Annex 3 d
MOU between ICAR; Statc Agricultural Univcrsitics and Statc Govemments:           Page 4 of 4
1. The Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University agree to execute the project
as per terms and conditions of the AHRD project.
2. The Univcrsity agrec:-
(I ) - to follow the norms and guidelincs laid down by ICAR on Agriculutural education with
regard to maintcnancc of standards of education, regulations regarding admission
requirements, courses, examination and evaluation system, instructional facilities,
teaching staff pattcrn etc.
( ii) - to take all actions rcquired for strcngthening of the educational programmes and will qpt
establish new departmcnts/ collcges without clearance of ICAR.
( iii) - to provide the manpowcr data and information rclated to students, staff and academip
programmes to the Council.
( iv) - to reservc scats in Bachelor, Master and Doctoral programmes for students formn othyr
States as per ICAR norms.
(v) - to permit visit of rcprescntat"ucs of ICAR! World Bank to assess the progrcss of
implementation of the project.
Secctary  Statc Govemmentl
Agriculutr Department                     Tamil Nadu Veterinary & Animal Sciences
University
Deputy 6irector General, ICAR



Annex 3 e
72                                  Pagel of 6
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
State Agricultural University Common Action Matrix
Problems:
-     Mismatch between demand for and supply of agricultural professionals both in
quality and quantity.
-     Job opportunities in public sector are continually shrinking; but investments in
institutions as well as intake of students are on the increase. Consequently,
unemployment of graduates is steadily on the increase.
-     Graduates do not possess adequate skills and confidence to start their own
businesses.
-     Job market in the private sector is slowly but steadily increasing; quality of
graduates, especially in analytical and practical skills, is inadequate to meet
present and emerging job market needs; linkage between industry and
educational institutions is almost non-existent.
-     Low motivation and inbreeding of students affect quality of output.
-     Motivation of staff is low; staff performance is declining due to inbreeding,
inadequate exposure to latest developments in technology, limited skills in
pedagogic methods, management and in working with social groups.
-     Inadequate infrastructural facilities, weak administrative and financial
management systems affect quality.
-     Educational system is not adequately responsive to the need for adjusting to
changing economic environment.
Impacts:
Wastage of trained manpower.
Wastage of scarce resources.
Performance of fresh graduates is considerably low due to inadequate skills to
face real-life situations; additional resources have to be invested by employers
to train them further for professional tasks.



Annex 3e
73                                Page 2 of 6
Low morale of professional personnel employed in Research and Development.
Low quality of professionals retard growth and development of the agricultural
sector.
Full realizable potentials for economic development in agricultural sector are
not achieved.



INDIA
AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
State Agricultural University Common Action Matrix
:y Rault Area                         PoUc Atn                                                  A40su_tstm                   R RdMuoabeOtput
Manpower Needs          The state will assess manpower trends and            The state will establish a Manpower         State Govemment will issue an executive
Assessment              requirements and issue policy directives and allocate  Advisory Council (MAC) by a government    order by 30 June, 1995.
resources for education and human resources         executive order and organize studies to
development.                                        assess manpower trends and requirements
and suggest to Government/SAUs necessary
policy changes and investment needs.
SAU will establish an administrative unit to   SAU will establish the administrative unit
service the MAC.                           by 30 June, 1995.
Activities of the MAC/administrative unit   _
will be included in the State project annual    Z
implementation plan.
Student/Academic        SAU to follow for undergraduate (UG) admission the                                               ICAR and SAU have entered into an MOU
Issues                  qualifications and subjects prescribed by ICAR from                                              by 15 October, 1994.
time to time.
SAU to admit UG students on the basis of merit
through a common entrance examination, subject only
to already established reservation policies of the State.
In-service candidates will be admitted only on the
basis of subject eligibility requirements set by ICAR.
Foreign candidates sponsored by ICARIGOI will be
considered on the basis of equivalence of their
qualifications.
0*



Key Result Areas                     Policy Adjustment                           Institutional Adjustment                Results/Monitorable Output
Student/Academic       15% of postgraduate (PG) seats will be reserved for
Issues (cont.)         All-India students selected through an All-India
Entrance Examination.
For Masters and Ph.D. degrees, SAU will follow
ICAR norms and publish entry requirements.
For maintaining standards, SAU will follow    ICAR will review implementation progress
norms and systems developed by ICAR for    on an annual basis.
conduct of examinations; return answer
books to students and associate external
examiners for Ph.D.
SAU will review and strengthen "hands-on"
training and commercial agriculture content
in its courses; also will provide facilities to
students to gain entrepreneurial skills.
SAU will establish/strengthen student counselling and    The counselling center will be placed under   SAU will establish the Center by
placement center for career development and job    the Dean, Student Affairs, or a senior     31 March, 1996; ICAR will review          _
placement.                                         university officer.                       performance on an annual basis.            >
SAU will establish an education technology and     The cell will be placed under the Deans of    SAU will establish the education cell by
development cell to review, plan and develop       the faculty and its suggestions processed and   31 March, 1996; ICAR will review and
educational systems, programs and resource use.    implemented through the SAU statutory      guide performance.
councils.
Staff Issues           SAU will follow ICAR norms for UGIPG teaching                                                 ICAR and SAU have finalized an MOU by
and teacher assessment.                                                                       15 October, 1994.
SAU will fix the number of core teaching staff     SAU will introduce an annual evaluation of   SAU will introduce these changes by
required exclusively for teaching duties, select and  teachers by Dean's Committee.          31 March, 1996. ICAR will monitor
retain staff for these positions at least for a period of                                    through annual review.
five years based on performance.                   SAU will assign senior PG teachers to be
associated with UG teaching.
0" E



fff 00: ::003I00000 f t00 t;0!d_ f 'S-I0- A,Ee0t a: Sf-fffff 00 PRcyA4jusbuSt0ES;  00000                                                   f00 -tf$J77_  O.7
Staff Issues (cont.)   SAU will provide orientation and refresher training on                                        Annual review of staff training.
teaching methods and technology to all teachers as an
integral part of their career development.
SAU will assess teaching staff for promotion primarily   SAU will introduce student evaluation of all
on the basis of teaching performance.              courses-contents and methods.
SAU will introduce a system of sabbatical leave for  SAU management will fix norms for       Norms will be finalized by
core teaching staff.                               selecting candidates for sabbaticals/overseas   31 December, 1995; annual review of
training and internal deputation for staff  progress.
upgradation.
SAU will establish cooperative arrangements with                                              Semi-annual review of progress.
exteral institmtions including overseas institutions to
upgrade staff competence in technology, education and
management.
SAU will permit and encourage staff to take up     SAU management will establish rules and   Rules will be finalized by
consuhancies to foster interactions with other agro-  regulate staff consultancies.          31 December, 1995.
related sectors.
SAU will depute staff to undertake Ph.D. studies in                                          ICAR will monitor progress through annual
other state universities; recruit teachers on an All-India                                   reviews.
basis with a uniform set of qualification requirements.
Other Management                                                           SAU will establish computer-based record-
Issues                                                                     keeping system.
SAU will provide training in resource
management for all levels of staff; and
integrate it into staff career develpment.
SAU will modernize library and its        ICAR will monitor and provide technical
management system; and provide training   assistance.
for librarians.
SAU will set up a central instrumentation
cell.
o 



Key Result Areas                    PoLicy Adjustment                           Institutional Adjustment                Results/Monitorable Output
Other Management       SAU will provide adequate and non-transferable funds   SAU will review and improve fiscal    Annual SAU budget should reflect separate
Issues (cont.)         (i.e., earmarked funds) for proper                 management, resource management and       allocation for maintenance/replacement.
maintenance/replacement of infrastructural        accounting systems and improve
facilities/buildings/equipment.                   management efficiency and effectiveness.  Studies for management improvement must
be included in the annual project
implementation plan. Annual review of
progress.
_,
t >
UQ D3
I fD



78



79
Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Education-Related Financial Management System at SAUs
Draft Terms-of-Reference
1.    Purpose. The study would review the financial management system of the SAU in
relation to its educational function, and suggest measures to improve the financial
management system with a focus on ensuring that the quality of education steadily improves
and is not affected in any manner by factors such as inadequate budgetary support, crowding
out of essential expenditures by salaries or poor resource management.
2.    Background. Education is one of the major mandates of the SAU system. However,
in practice, research is assigned priority attention and resources are not adequately allocated
to education to ensure desirable standards. Within the education sector, providing for and
protecting staff salaries receive greater priority over recurring expenditures and investments
on establishing and maintaining intrastructural facilities essential to sustain desirable quality
and standards. Reasons for this are many.
3.    The SAU gets its funding support for education mainly from the state by way of
Block Grants. ICAR also supports educational activities through Development Grants. In
addition, the SAU gets a small amount of income from various sources such as tuition fees,
farm receipts, consultancy fees and endowments from trade and philanthropic individuals and
institutions. The Block Grant is fixed by the state every year, but annual increase is
marginal. It is released after deducting the internal revenue generated by the SAU. This
system seems to act as a disincentive for the SAU to make efforts to increase its internally
generated income. In may cases, tuition fees have not been revised and raised to appropriate
levels. Farm management has not been commercialized; farm accounts and land use do not
receive desirable attention and improvement. Student scholarships are unduly large and do
not help to promote academic excellence. Efforts to promote consultancy activities in general
are not adequate. ICAR grants are not sufficiently monitored.
4.    Staff are not exclusively recruited for teaching. They are assigned teaching as well as
research/extension functions. Due to extraneous pressures, more institutions than are required
have been established both for education and research. Consequently, there has been a steady
increase in the number of people on the payroll of the SAU. With the introduction of the
UGC pay scales and promotional systems, the funds requirement for staff salaries have gone
up steeply.
5.    In the prevailing generally restrictive environment on public expenditures, there is a
distinct tendency for staff salary commitments to crowd out essential recurring expenditures



80                                  Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
and investment expenditures. The SAtl has neither developed norms for such essential
expenditures nor introduced efficient fi,tancial management systems to make its operations
efficient and cost-effective. Hence the need for the proposed study.
6.    Process. The study would:
(a)   review the existing sources and methods of funding support for higher
agricultural education;
(b)    examine the resource allocation and financial management system of the SAU;
(c)   review the staffing norms and staff strength;
(d)    examine and suggest norms for essential recurring expenditures including
operation and maintenance of established assets and for critical capital
investments related to quality of education;
(e)    suggest measures to increase external funding support and internal income
generation (e.g., tuition fees, staff and student subsidized welfare activities,
resource management, staff consultancies) in a sustainable manner; and
(f)    suggest improved budgetary and financial management systems and methods to
ensure quality of education and to safeguard that essential recurring
expenditures become first charge on available resources.
7.    Outputs. Study results should be presented in a detailed report containing:
(a)    an in-depth analysis of the sources and uses of funds for higher agricultural
education at the SAU, and the extent to which staff expenditures are crowding
out other, often more productive, expenditures for developmental programs and
maintenance of physical plant;
(b)    monitorable indicators on staff and essential recurring expenditures;
(c)    options and recommendations for increasing internally derived income and
introducing efficient budgetary and financial management systems; and
(d)   recommendations for minimum levels of tuition fees, expressed as a percentage
of per student annual costs, together with criteria of eligibility for the annual



81                               Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
award of scholarships. In addition, recommendations should be provided on a
suitable mechanism for setting tuition and other fee levels annually.
The draft report of the study should be discussed with the state finance department, senior
management of the SAU and the Bank before being finalized.



82



83
Annex 5
Page 1 of 5
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Panel of Experts--Terms of Reference
1.    Backeround. India's agricultural sector is vast. It supports 70% of the country's
population and 80% of its poor, contributes 30-35% of GDP and generates about 20% of
export earnings. India ranks second in the world in rice and wheat production and first in
groundnut production. Since the 1950s, GOI's agricultural policy has emphasized food self-
sufficiency and low and stable consumer prices. This policy has been pursued through large
public investments in irrigation infrastructure and agricultural research, and transfer of land
ownership to tenants and the landless. Coupled with the introduction of high-yielding seed
varieties and expanded use of fertilizer, these initiatives have enabled India and its 880
million people to become self-sufficient in basic foods. In comparison to other developing
countries, famines have been avoided successfully and rural poverty rates have declined,
albeit slowly. Food consumption and nutrition indicators have improved, especially in the
rapidly growing states. Notwithstanding these successes, the rate of agricultural growth
overall has been unimpressive, at about 2.5% per year over the past 30 years and marginally
above the 2.2% annual increase of population. Much of the growth in production moreover
has been uneven, coming more from irrigated areas particularly in the Northwest. There are
indications that future agricultural growth will rely increasingly on diversification away from
traditional rice and wheat toward higher-value crops and value added activities. In contrast,
other Asian nations have enjoyed annual agricultural growth rates of 5% or more, and
substantial improvement in incomes and nutrition of the rural poor. China, Indonesia,
Malaysia and Thailand, for example, have been able to manage successfully such transitions
from agricultural self-sufficiency to agricultural diversification objectives for both domestic
consumption and export.
2.    To propel Indian agriculture into the 21st century, the quality, technical skills and
management of agricultural manpower must improve in consonance with rapidly changing
labor market requirements. If the education imparted is not attuned to current and future
realities, the national extension, research and agribusiness systems will perform below
potential, despite large investments in infrastructure, extension networks and technology.
India's manpower must have good analytical ability to be able to anticipate and adjust to a
changing environment increasingly affected by global forces. It must communicate sound
technical and financial advice and awareness of opportunities to farmers moving gradually
into diversified, commercial agriculture. It must also be prepared to develop good public
policy and make sound managerial decisions.
3.    Proposed Proiect and its Status. An Agricultural Human Resources Development
Project is proposed to improve the quality of development of sectoral manpower and its use
as a means of enhancing agricultural growth and improving efficiency. The project would



Annex 5
84                           Page 2 of 5
assist in India's drive to modernize its agricultural sector. It would promote changes in the
way the Center and the states develop and employ human resources with the aim to make
them, and thereby the sector, more productive. To achieve these changes, policy and
institutional reforms would be carried out. The project would also foster changes in
investment priorities resulting from policy and institutional reforms adopted. The project
would begin a process of: (a) improving the quality and relevance of higher agricultural
education and in-service training programs; and (b) strengthening the capacity of participating
states to develop and manage agricultural human resources. With a five-year time horizon, it
would include subprojects from three participating states (Andhra Pradesh, Haryana and Tamil
Nadu), selected to demonstrate to other states the advantages of efficient manpower resource
management. The project would also support a strengthened role for the Education Division
of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) as it strives to establish rigorous
norms and standards for agricultural education. In the long-term, it is envisaged that this
division would be transformed into a separate Agricultural Education Council (AEC) with
statutory powers to set norms and standards and enforce these through its accreditation of
universities and their courses and through its funding of educational programs at the state
agricultural universities (SAUs). The Department of Agricultural Research and Education
(DARE) within the Union Ministry of Agriculture has been selected as nodal agency to
coordinate the project.
4.    The project is receiving high priority and profile within India. It is considered by the
Government of India (GOI) and the states as the first phase in a long-term program to
improve agricultural human resource development. Because of the long-term nature of human
resources development, it is expected that future projects would encompass additional states
as well as first-project states as they move through progressive stages of development in this
area. Future projects would also continue to strengthen the Center's capability to establish
and enforce norms and standards in agricultural education.
5.    The project was partially prepared with technical assistance from DHV Consultants
BV of the Netherlands. Subsequently, ICAR and the participating states prepared project
proposals which formed the basis for assessing suitability for possible Bank financing. The
project was preappraised by the Bank in June 1994 and appraised in August 1994. An IDA
credit to finance the project was negotiated in February 1995; and the project would be
presented to the Bank's Board in March 1995. Formal implementation would begin in about
June 1995.
6.    Proposed Panel of Experts. A three-person, international panel of experts is
proposed to advise the ICAR (Education Division) and the SAUs during this important and
new phase of policy and institutional reform.' The team would advise ICAR as it establishes
an accreditation system for agricultural universities and courses, and the SAUs and the
participating states in their efforts to reform educational and university management systems.
I Qualified Indian experts could participate.



Annex 5
85                             Page 3 of 5
The panel would provide a core of technical excellence, continuity and objectivity over a
three-year period. Specifically, panel members would: (a) conduct a review of current
higher-level agricultural education in India, relying heavily on discussions with ICAR and
SAU authorities as well as project documents and supporting materials; (b) assist ICAR and
the SAUs to develop plans of action in their transitions to modern accreditation, educational
and management systems; (c) conduct seminars on good education policy and university
management practices; and (d) contribute assessments of project progress to the mid-term
review which is meant to enable mid-course corrections to design and, in the case of this
project, guidance for design of second-phase operation. Panel members would undertake no
role or responsibility in project implementation.
7.    The following three specialists would comprise the panel:
(a)   Two Education Specialists. These persons should have broad knowledge and
practical experience in institution/course accreditation, higher-level
curriculum/syllabus development and implementation as well as modern
pedagogy. They would advise ICAR on the design and application of sound
accreditation criteria for agricultural degree-granting institutions. The
specialists would also counsel on ways to stimulate and reward good teaching.
They would advise on ways India's agricultural education system might be
opened for greater participation of women. Since one of the objectives of the
project would be to break down some of the insularity within the Indian
agricultural education system, they would recommend alternative ways to foster
inter-state and international exchanges of faculty and students. They would
also advise ICAR regarding the formation of AEC.
(c)   University Management Specialist. An expert of international repute would
participate on the panel to advise on management/institutional aspects of ICAR
and SAU reform. He/she should have practical university management
experience. The specialist would assist ICAR to develop good administration
practices in its strengthened Education Division. The expert would assist
participating SAUs to develop sound management information systems for
normal record-keeping, university administration and fiscal management.
He/she should advise on ways to improve overall university administration and
its effectiveness. He/she would join the educators on the panel in an analysis
of the Center's proposals to set up a system of university accreditation, and
make recommendations as the ICAR (Education Division) explores the
possibility of forming AEC.
8.    Short-Term Assistance. Strategic, short-term technical assistance may be required
over the three-year period to advise the ICAR and SAUs in special topics to be identified by
the panel. Such short-term assistance could be in such areas as student evaluation, academic
registry, student welfare, counselling and job procurement, innovative teaching methodologies,
and technology, and practicals (e.g., laboratories, farms, workshops, teaching staff



Annex 5
86                              Page 4 of 5
development, industry placements/attachments). In addition, short-term assistance could
finance the cost of seminars sponsored by panel members to stimulate discussion of key
educational/administrative issues and present findings/recommendations.
9.    Estimated Work Plan. While project implementation is expected to begin formally
in June 1995 (once an IDA credit account is opened), the project would provide for
retroactive financing of agreed components starting on August 22, 1994. The Panel of
Experts could make a valuable contribution in this critical start-up phase of the project.
However, it is expected that the bulk of the panel's activities would take place in 1995 with
the balance assumed to be split evenly between 1996 and 1997. Financial requirements have
been calculated assuming that each expert would provide a total of 170 person-days over the
three-year period. The panel would remain constituted through 1997 to enable contribution to
the mid-term review of project implementation.



Annex 5
87                                  Page 5 of 5
10.    Estimated Budget. The proposed teclinical assistance will require the following
estimated funding (in US dollar equivalents):
Cost Estimate
1995        1996        1997     TOTALS
Three-Person Panel
fees (@US$450/day)aI                     ') 94,50()  67,500      67,500    229,500
travel (@US$5,000/rouLnd-t rip )h/c/      3(.000     36,000      36,000      108,000
subsistence (@US$ 135/day )d/            2X.35()    20,250       20,250       68,850
Subtotal                               158,850    123,750    123,750    406,350
Short-term  Specialists/Seminars
fees (@US$400/dav)e/                     2-I,()0      24,000     24,000       72,000
travel (@US$5,000/round-trip )b/cl        24.000     24,000      24,000       72,000
subsistence (@US$ 1 35/day)d/              8, I (0     8,100       8,100      24,300
Subtotal                                56,100      56,100      56,100      168,300
TOTALS                                 214,950    179,850    179,850    574,650
a/     Assumes 7(0 days/perso)n (19 )95); 50 davls/person (1996 itll(i 1997).
b/     Assumes Business Class.
c/    Includes US$1.000 per person/tiip tor intcriral travel.
d/     Current Bank per diem assuniptioni tor India.
el     Assumes 60 person-days per year.
March 6, 1995



a:>
OD



89
Annex 6
Page 1 of 8
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
State-Level Human Resources Development/Management
1.    This annex sets out the rationale for the improvement in human resources development
(HRD) and human resources management (HRM) expected to occur in participating states
during the implementation of the project. It also describes the responsibilities of managers,
training institute staff, proposed specialists and HRD cells in the pursuit of higher quality
HRD and HRM.
Rationale
2.    The State Development Departments of Agriculture have been the largest employer of
graduates from the state agricultural universities. In recent years, the public sector has been
increasingly unable to hire the traditional numbers of new graduates due to severe fiscal
constraints. In addition, there is growing concern about the amount of remedial induction and
in-service training required to bring new employees up to work-ready standards. Government
concern about the general quality of human resources in the agricultural sector prompted the
development of the project to address both human resource generation and use, emphasizing
quality of university teaching and management and improved HRD and HRM at state-level.
3.    The following realities currently prevail in most states:
(a)   University graduates entering service require significant induction and technical
training to make them work-ready;
(b)   HRD is not practiced, as reflected in the frequency of current training
programs, poor trainee selection, lack of systematic training needs assessment,
preponderance of supply-driven training and lack of routine evaluation of
training impact;
(c)   Systematic HRM is lacking, which would ensure that the most qualified
candidates are matched with appropriate job vacancies, that transfers are limited
to enable staff to become integrated into positions and make an impact and that
career development is supported and encouraged;
(d)   Trainers are often of poor quality; and
(e)   Training facilities and support equipment/materials are frequently in
unsatisfactory condition or are lacking.



90                               Annex 6
Page 2 of 8
Human Resources Development
4.    Employees are a resource as important as technology, physical inputs and finance but
are often neglected on the assumption that the resource is always there and always capable of
performing necessary tasks. Regrettably, experience shows that this conventional benign
neglect results in a small fraction of staff often doing the bulk of work while a large number
remains in frustrating underemployment. Every institution needs to develop its human
resources by practicing HRD, the principal elements being:
(a)   sound employee records containing not only personnel data but also training
and experience history;
(b)   up-to-date job descriptions;
(c)   training needs assessments;
(d)   training program design;
(e)   trainee selection based on training needs assessments;
(f)   training impact evaluation;
(g)   career development; and
(h)   basic manpower planning.



Annex 6
91
Page 3 of 8
5.     To address these needs, each State Development Department participating in the
project would create a small cell or group to take the lead in HRD. A total of 14
departments are participating in the project.' Main tasks of each HRD cell would include:
(a)    updating and maintaining staff training and experience records;
(b)    updating job descriptions in cooperation with development department
managers and the personnel department;
(c)    maintaining departmental manpower inventory;
(d)    carrying out routine training needs assessments for all categories of staff;
(e)    clearly specifying needed staff training based on analysis of the training needs
assessments;
(f)    planning for the implementation of training activities; and
(g)    planning and carrying out training impact assessments.
6.     Suitably trained and skilled persons to perform the functions listed above would be
recruited. Three persons are proposed for each cell with the following responsiblities:
(a)    training needs assessment and training program design;
(b)    training program implementation and training impact evaluation; and
(c)    manpower planning, training records and job descriptions.
Andhra Pradesh: Agriculture Department
Fisheries Department
Horticulture Department
Animal Husbandry Department
Haryana:       Agriculture Department
Fisheries Department
Horticulture Department
Animal Husbandry Department
Tamil Nadu:    Agriculture Department
Fisheries Department
Horticulture Department
Animal Husbandry Department
Agricultural Engineering Department
Forestry Department



92                                Annex 6
Page 4 of 8
While each would have different responsibilities, they should each be fully trained to perform
any of the cell's tasks. In addition, the team would need secretarial support and appropriate
office equipment.
HRD Technical Assistance
7.    The project would provide technical assistance to guide the development of HRD
capacity within the state departments through funding of the salary of a qualified and
experienced HRD Specialist who would be located in the Project Monitoring and
Implementation Cell (PMIC) under the Secretary of Agriculture in each state. The HRD
Specialist would be responsible for guiding the process of HRD capacity-building with staff
from each of the departmental HRD cells, and would have project funding to hire specialized
consultants to provide short-term technical inputs as required. The HRD Specialist position
would be financed for the full implementation period to ensure sustainability of the HRD
function within the Departments. Each HRD activity would be explained and undertaken first
by the HRD Specialist and consultants with cell-counterpart assistance. Staff from individual
department cells would then practice their newly acquired skills by performing HRD activities
alone under the HRD Specialist's supervision. The HRD Specialist would also prepare an
HRD manual or handbook which would be used as a reference for future HRD cell activities.
Draft terms-of-reference for this specialist are given in Attachment 1.
8.    Once training needs are assessed for a particular group of staff and training program
content recommended, training institutes/centers would be requested to develop detailed
courses/training activities (curricula) to meet these needs. The project would enable state
training institutes to upgrade trainer skills and facilities and to develop and implement
appropriate training activities. The HRD cell would carry out impact evaluation of such
activities. In this manner, HRD cell staff would complete the cycle from needs assessment to
training impact evaluation. Training institute staff would practice newly acquired or upgraded
skills by implementing a number of demand-driven training activities (para 9). The project
would fund about two courses in each state of about 30 persons each from key trainee target
groups as part of the part of the practice-implementation of the training needs assessment,
course design, course implementation and impact evaluation cycle. These practice courses
would be completed over a period of about three years in association with the HRD Specialist
and the HRD cells in each participating state.
Training of Trainers Program (TOTP)
9.    Once training needs are identified, the next step is to obtain good quality training to
correct the knowledge/skill gaps detected. The project would include a training program to
strengthen training skills of trainers at state institutes and centers and also for selected key
resource persons who are called upon frequently to assist in training activities. TOTP would
be directed by the HRD Specialist located in the PMIC to ensure that updated technical skills
are accurately transferred from the specialists to the trainees by use of the most appropriate
teaching/training methods. TOTP would include: basic adult leaming theory; designing



Annex 6
93                                Page 5 of 8
training courses/activities based on needs assessments; field-testing of training courses;
selection, use and production of audio and visual aids; training delivery; formative and
summative evaluation of courses/activities; training management (for training institution staff)
including accurate record-keeping; and training program impact evaluation.
10.   The project would finance the services of a suitably qualified and experienced
institution or firm to design and implement the TOTP under the direction of the HRD
Specialist. Since acquisition of training skills requires practical application of techniques
learned, it is envisaged that the TOTP would be divided into a number of activities (modules)
to enable trainees to practice techniques and to obtain assistance when difficulties are
encountered. Since the roster of trainers and training resource persons changes as people
retire or are reassigned and as skills need to be refreshed and updated, TOTP training should
be institutionalized as a regular feature of each department's annual training program.
Human Resources Management (HRM)
11.   HRM refers to the process whereby managers maximize the effectiveness and
efficiency of their staff by managing them actively and well. Even with accurate training
needs assessments and high quality training, staff can only perform well if they are managed
properly. Elements of HRM of importance to the project include:
(a)   selection of job candidates based on their compatibility with accurate and
updated job descriptions;
(b)   matching the right person to the job;
(c)   supporting HRD, including maintenance of up-to-date training records and
conduct of regular training needs assessments;
(d)   appointing interested and capable persons to positions in HRD cells and
training institutions;
(e)   encouraging training impact evaluations; and
(f)   limiting frequent staff transfers.
A good human resources manager also observes well, encourages staff to perform up to
expectations and rewards good performance through training or special assignments. The
project would refresh/develop managers' capacity to manage by providing training at
specialized institutes or in situ by suitably qualified specialists. The planning and
implementation of this training program would be managed by the HRD Specialist and would
be designed to emphasize the links among systematic HRM, HRD and improved training
quality.



Annex 6
94                                   Page 6 of 8
Staffing
13.   The HRD Specialist. Selection of the right person for the proposed HRD Specialist
position in each state's PMIC is important to the success of the project. Candidates for the
post should have personnel, training and HRD qualifications and experience. The HRD
Specialist needs to be a person of stature who can readily interact with managers and project
an ability to manage a mix of interlinked activities. See Attachment 1.
14.   The HRD Cells.  Persons selected should have some background in HRD. The head
of each cell should be chosen on the basis of interest in HRD and willingness to serve at least
for the duration of the project.
15.   Training Institutes. One of the weaknesses detected in training quality is the
selection, training and tenure of staff managing and teaching at the training institutes and
centers. Generally no specific selection criteria are used, and tenure is not fixed at
appointment. Despite the fact that training institution staff are expected to implement
successfully broad-based in-service training programs, training in training management or
teaching skills is rarely given. The project would highlight the importance of staffing such
institutes/centers with better qualified trainers with aptitude and inclination to make a career
as training specialists. It is hoped that under the project, trainers would begin to be viewed
by managers and trainers themselves as skilled and valuable contributors to staff and sectoral
development.
Project Support
16.   The project would support the following activities in participating Development
Departments:
(a)    Human Resources Development. The project would enable the establishment
of an HRD cell in each of the 14 participating departments; in the case of large
departments these would be staffed by four senior staff and support personnel:
one additional director, three assistant directors, administrative and office
support staff.' The project would fund the salaries of cell staff, purchase of
office equipment and the cost of running the cells for the duration of the
project. Since HRD cell members would need to travel to conduct assessments
and impact evaluations, funding for travel allowances has been included.
Technical assistance (a total of 60 person-months for an HRD specialist in the
PMIC and short-term consultants) would be provided to train cell staff in key
aspects of HRD. HRD staff-trainees would work with the consultants initially
as counterparts -nd then in the lead role under consultant supervision. This
2     In the case of smaller departments, the cells would be staffed by one additional director or
equivalent, two assistant directors and appropriate support staff.



Annex b
Page 7 of 8
training program  s uldlit spn1 Erlt'i.;e xdrs  The IIRI) Spl%;Ilisl s,oiold Jsiti:Nl
and produce an HRD handbook tailored to thi spcitic ndcts ot tihe di,it staw'te
departmnens. 1 is expected that the HRD ceIls w%ould hc .u lly oper.ational in
project years 4 anid 5 tlnider tie continuing guidance Of tic 1IRD Speciailist in
the PNIIC. By project's eid. i shtt41.1i.d beCOmlle < iel.liL to) DepalrnWli1
miianlagemiienit that a HRD career laddr shll0 , ;d be added (to deparninen[.
structures.
(b)    Human Resources NManagentient. The project \\ould increasC cach
departmenti's capacity to mianage huLllanll reCSOUI';CS;s  pl pOr idinlg ta.ilorecd
training progranms for managers. These progranis would be airranged and
implemenited by the HRD Specialist i]n (he PINAIC a.nd %WoUld he offeted a.
suitably qualified illStitUtiOnS or i silu by) a Co0lStaI,t spcialis  l'tlC
objective of the traiilng program would .e to imipress upon niilialerS tlih
importance of systeniatic HRM  and to clarif\ th.' linkages aiong lIIRI). LlualiA
training anid thie  anagieminient of statf. B\ thie end o the' it proj ct. 1-IR  shld01.
be institutionalized and incorporated lilto thc 1lnlaOCInICI,'t CulturI' of ec.ICh
department.
(c)    Training of Trainers Program  (TOTP). rhe pr oj.lct Would StliCV to inlupro\
training management and quality. TOTP woulctd be nianged b\ the HRD)
Specialist, employing conisultanits ftromii quallfieCd tfirms or instilutSions. I'hc
target trainee group would be the key teaching slaff at state traillimi institutes
and centers and subject to space availability. selected teachiing resource
persons. TOT requires small-group interaction, adequat1e plractice ol tchniqus.
followed by constructive criticisim. TOTP Would span threc years and Would
dovetail with the completion of HRD tra-iiniyg prograilis. By tilc cinl of hlie
project, the goal would be to have significant improveillent ill in-service
training quality as measuled by impact evaluations conldilcict lb thc 1iIRI) cells
in collaboration with managers. supervisors and trainers. TIhe project wotill
fund the cost of travel and subsistence of trainecs in tlh TlOTP. The project
would finance practice courses/trainlilng activities so that those trained in Tl( )'
can try out newly acquired skills and knowledge. The project wouild also
include in-country and limited overseas training flr exposLIrc to m1oderin
teaching technology and observation of sounid iiethods in prlictice. Persons
receiving such special training would be expected to he resouice persons lor
departmental training programs.
(d)    Upgraded Training Facilities. The project would incIlIdc til Constilrluciol
renovation and furnishing of new and existing training l.icililics wheie ilie
absence or present condition of training facilities hias been judged to be a
serious constraint to delivery of quality training. Althougil somle civil works
mnight take up to two years to complete, staff for new/upgraded facilities cani be
identified in advance to participate in TOTP. The project would provide



Annex 6
96                                   Page 8 of 8
teaching, laboratory and other demonstration equipment where new or
replacement items are required. It would also provide a limited number of
vehicles for transporting trainees to field sites or for trainee supervision.



97
ANNEX 6
Attachment
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Human Resources Development Specialist--Draft Terms-of-Reference
1.    The referenced project will improve the capacity of the State Development
Departments of Agriculture to manage human resources effectively. The project supports
programs to improve human resources development (HRD), training quality and management
of human resources (HRM). It will require the services of a dynamic, suitably qualified and
experienced person to provide leadership and guidance to the implementation of the
interlinked project HRD activities.
2.    The HRD Specialist would be a member of the State's Project Monitoring and
Implementation Cell (PMIC) attached to the office of the Secretary of Agriculture. He/she
would be expected to plan and implement interactive training programs for staff of each
participating department's HRD Cell, selected trainers from training institutes and training
centers (Training of Trainers) and managers from the Departments (HRM). Funding would
be available to hire qualified resource persons or institutions on short-term bases to provide
technical input required to implement the various project activities.
3.    The assignment would be for the five-year duration of the project. The HRD
Specialist would be hired on a contract basis. The HRD Specialist would be based in
[NAME OF CITY].
4.    The successful candidate should a person: (a) respected for his/her achievements in
the field of HRD/HRM; (b) with qualifications from a recognized institution; and (c) with at
least ten years experience in positions related to HRD/HRM. Ideally the person should have
degrees or qualifications in the areas of HRD or HRM, but other qualifications, combined
with outstanding work experience in HRD/HRM, could be considered. The HRD Specialist
will require excellent planning skills and the patience, imagination and flexibility to innovate
and to achieve results in a public institutional setting.



98



99
ANNEX 7
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Cost Tables



00T



India
Agricultural Human Resources Development Project
Project Cost Sunary
(Rs '000)                                          (USS '000)
%      % Total                                    %     % Total
Foreign    Base                                   Foreign    Base
Local    Foreian    Total   Exchange    Costs    Local   Foreian   Total   Exchanae  Costs
1. ICAR Strengthening          151,952.0 165,181.4 317,133.4            52        14  4,843.9  5,265.6 10,109.5           52       14
2. University Programs         565,821.3 746,465.7 1,312,287            57         60 18,037.0 23,795.5 41,832.5          57       60
3. In-Service HRD/HRM          361,358.0 190,756.4 552,114.4            35        25 11,519.2  6,080.9 17,600.1           35       25
4. Manpower Needs Assessment  10.451.3         123.8  10.575.0           1          -  _33.2         3.9    337.1       1            -
Total BABELII  COSTS               1,089,583 1,102,527 2,192,110           50        100 34,733.3 35,145.9 69,879.2          50       100
Physical Contingencies            80,277.4  13,989.2  94,266.6           15          4  2,559.1    445.9  3,005.0          15         4
Price Contingencies             207.785.2 265.532.5 473.317.7            56         22   -182.0  1.472.5  1.290.6         114         2
Total PROJXCS COSTS                1,377,645 1,382,049 2,759,694           50        126 37,110.4 37,064.4 74,174.7          50       106
Fri Feb 10 16:56:16 1995
0Q
1-1 Project Cost Summary                                                                                     '4
0



India
Agricultural Human Resources Development Project
Project Cost Summeary
(Rs  000)                                             (USS   00
8       8 Total                                     8      8Total
Foreign    Base                                     Foreign    Base
Local    Fore ion    To tal   Exchanoe    CQflots..  TJ&ga.l.   Ecxeim   T otal. Exchangie 2-aL.Q.
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                        3r5,367.6  34,040.8 340 408.4             10          06  9,766.3  1,085.1 10,851.4            10        16
B. Buildling Rentals                   15,057.6           -  15,057.6                        1    480.1           -    480.01- 
C. Computers                           916.         0y'I1.4 113,3880 C1                                                              so 5   _89  61.
D. Ottice and other Eq'oipment         18,611   3- 44.9 142,3161                616                313 3,1.    4,536.;               8
E. Laboratory and Form Eqjuipment              9 C   -63-4 357, >79             ED0                                    4-9           9
PFu:,nitr,                           x
0.Livesocoka
H. Vehicles                            3       .1
6, Tec - '~irs"al    5'i s 'i al-C
Total Investment Costs
TI. Recurrent Costs
Total Recurrent Costs                           ,____-
Total BASELINE COSTS
Physical Con'..inger.c-
Pr ice Contin,sencies                                4is2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                          ,4  259   ' 
\a Establishment of a st~ock.
Fri Feb 10 16:56:26 1595
2-1 Project Cost Summary



India
Agricultural Human Resources Development Project
Enpenditur. Accounts by Coipon.nts - Totals Including Contingencies
(Rs '000)
Manpower
ICAR        University    In-Service          Needs
Strengthenin    Proa              H/H           Assessment       Total
I. Invwatmnt Costs
A. Civil Works                            32,224.5       220,389.2       205,821.0               - 458,434.9
B. Building Rentals                       19,479.0                -               -              -  19,479.0
C. Computers                                      -      114,107.8        12,022.8               - 126,130.6
D. Office and other Equipment             65,580.8        57,106.3        41,553.8               - 164,241.0
E. Laboratory and Farm Equipment          30,111.7       387,593.0        11,902.5               - 429,607.3
F. Furniture                                              23,001.9        21,113.9               -  44,115.7
G. Livestock /a                                   -        5,113.9                -              -   5,113.9
H. Vehicles                                 1,457.1       36,298.7        13,513.4               -  51,269.2
I. Books and Journals                             -       79,262.0         4,804.1               -  84,066.2
J. Training                              176,331.3       323,573.4       164,570.0               -664,474.8
K. Technical Assistance                   16,748.6        71,248.8        31,245.1         1,103.6 120,346.1
L. Studies                                3.822.3                 -        4.122.8        10.701.3  1, 646.4
Total Invest-nt Costs                         345,755.3       1,317,695      510 669.5        11,605.0 ',185,925
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                               37,925.3        50,107.4       125,463.2           549.3 214,044.0                                                                         O
B. Operations & Maintenance                   365.2      246,903.8        41,339.2                 2088,608.3                                                                        W
C. Running Coscs                          24 753,         19. 356.6       26.715.9           291.3  71 117.1
Total Recurrent Costs                          63.043.7       316.367.8      192.518.2            839.6 573.769
Total PROJECT COSTS                            408,799.0       1,634,063      704,187.7        12,644.6 2,759,694
Taxes                                         27,676.1      215,020.7        55,175.2             58.3 297,930.2
Foreign Exchange                             213,219.1       924,023.4      244,643.7            162.6 1,382,049
\a Establishment of a stock.
Fri Feb 10 16:57:15 1995
ci >
rD X
5-1 Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies                                                                 
U1



India
Agricultural Human Resources Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(US0 '000)
Manpower
ICAR       University    In-Service          Needs
Strenatheninq    rLoqiams        HRD/R        Assessment    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                               808.3        6,259.7        5,790.6               - 12,858.6
B. Building Rentals                          522.0                             -                    522.0
C. Computers                                     -        3,336.8          331.7               -  3,668.5
D_ Office and other Equipment             1,834.7         1,632.3        1,175.3               -  4,642.2
E. Laboratory and Farm Equipment             753.3      10,704.8           321.6               - 11,779.6
F. Furniture                                                655.7          591.4               -  1,247.0
G. Livestock /a                                  -          146.8                              -    146.8
H. Vehicles                                   41.6        1,054.9          384.4               -  1,480.9
I. Books and Journals                            -       2,055.3           128.0               -  2,183.4
J. Training                               4,481.2         8,509.0        4,273.7               - 17,264.0
K. Technical Assistance                      434.6        1,926.3          841.6            28.7  3,231.1
L. Studies                                    99.3              _          122.9    __2 284.        5061
Total Investment Costs                         S,975.0       36,281.0       13,961.2           312 6 59,530.4
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                                  978.3        _,1291.8       3.225.C            14.2  5,509.4
B. Operations & Maintenanice                   9 5        6,234.2        1,051.3               -  7295.C
C. Running Costs                             6387  _        53.6        _ 91.           1            6  840.1                                                                    .
Total Recurrent Costs                          1 626.5        8 02R.6         4  67.4 _         21.9 14  44.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                            10,601.5       44,310.2        18,928.6          334.4 74,174.7
Taxes                                           736.4        5,868.6        1,514.0             1.5  8,120.5
Foreign Exchange                              5,560.5       25,001.1        6,498.5             4.2 37,064.4
\a Establishment of a stock.
Fri Feb 10 16:57:24 1995
6-1 Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies                                                            0



India
Agricultural Human Resources Development Project
Project Componets by Year
Totals Includina Continaencies (Rs '000)                      Totals Includina Continaencies (USS '000)
95;/96    96/97      97/98      98/99      99/00      Ttl       95196    96/97    97/98    98/99--  99/00   _Total
1. ICAR Strengthening           65,244.0  71,368.1  92,740.7  93,053.9  86,392.2 408,799.0  1,944.7  1,977.0  2,402.6  2,275.2  2,002.1 10,601.5
2. University Programs         456,178.9 538,475.6 267,418.4 194,657.5 177,332.4 1,634,063 13,597.0 14,916.2  6,927.9  4,759.4  4,109.7 44,310.2
3. In-Service HRD/HlRM         166,749.2 227,689.1 132,425.8  87,107.7  90,215.9 704,187.7  4,970.2  6,307.2  3,430.7  2,129.8  2,090.7 18,928.6
4. Manpower Needs Assessment   3.463.3   2.059.1   3.137.5          417.2  3.567.4  12.644.6   710.2           57.0      81.3      1.2       82.7   _334.A
Total PRoJ2Ur OeSS                 691,635.4 839,592.0 495,722.5 375,236.4 357,507.9 2,759,694 20,615.1 23,257.4 12,842.6  9,174.5  8,285.2 74,174.7
Fri Feb 10 16:57:32 1995
O
I-n
"I >
OQ XJ
O _
0
7-1 Project C~ommentm by Year
Lit



India
Agricultural Human Resources Development Project
Project Coat Bu ary
ICAR
(Rs '000)                                           (USS  000      _
%       % Total                                    %      % Total
Foreign    Base                                    Foreign    Base
Local     Foreian    Total   RAxchfna        Costs    Local   Foreian   Total   azxhanae  Costs
1. ICAR Strengthening 151J92.0 165-181.4 317.133.4                52        100  4.843.9 95265.6 10.109.5             52       100
Total RASEL.X   COSTS       151,952.0 165,181.4 317,133.4            52         100  4,843.9  5,265.6 10,109.5           52       100
Physical Contingencies   6,278.1         613.5   6,891.6            9          2    200.1       19.6    219.7           9         2
Price Contingencies        37.349.7  47.424.2  84.774.0            56         27      -3.0    275.4    272.4          101         3
Total PROJACT COSTS         195,579.9 213,219.1 408,799.0            52         129  5,041.0  5,560.5 10,601.5           52       105
Thu Mar 02 17:15:24 1995
>
Mt D
0
1-1 Project Cost Su=sary



India
Agricultural Human Resources Development Project
Project Cost Summary
ICAR
(Rs '000)                                          (USS  000)
%      % Total                                     %     % Total
Foreign    Base                                    Foreign    Base
Local    Foreicn    Total   Exchange    Costs    Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange  Costs
I. Invest mnt Costs
A. Civil Works                       18,916.1   2,101.8  21,017.9            10          7    603.0       67.0    670.0         10         7
B. Building Rentals/Furnishings   15,057.6              -  15,057.6                      5    480.0          -    480.0          -         5
D. Office and other Equipment        11,206.6  44,826.5  56,033.1            80         18    357.2  1,429.0  1,786.2           80        18
E. Laboratory and Farm Equipment   4,423.2  17,692.7  22,115.9               80          7    141.0    564.0    705.0           80         7
H. Vehicles                              878.4      219.6   1,098.0          20          -      28.0       7.0      35.0        20         -
J. Training                          38,898.8  95,992.2 134,891.0            71         43  1,240.0  3,060.0  4,300.0           71        43
K. Technical Assistance              12,281.4   1,364.6  13,646.0            10          4    391.5       43.5    435.0         10         4
L. Studies                            3.137.0           -   3 .137. 0         -          I      Q0           - a1 00 .0                    1
Total Investment Costs                   104,799.0 162,197.3 266,996.3            61         84  3,340.7  5,170.5  8,511.2           61        84
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                          30,883.8           -  30,883.8           -         10    984.5          -    984.5          -        10
B. Operations & Maintenance              137.2      137.2      274.5         50          -       4.4       4.4       8.8        50         -
C. Running Costs                     16.132.0   2.846.8  18.978.9            15          6    514.3       90.8    605.0         15         6
Total Recurrent Costs                     47.153.0   2.984.1  50,137.1             6         16  1.503.1       95.1  1. 59 8 .3       6        16                            C:)
Total BASELINE COSTS                      151,952.0 165,181.4 317,133.4            52        100  4,843.9  5,265.6 10,109.5           52       100
Physical Contingencies                    6,278.1      613.5   6,891.6            9          2    200.1      19.6    219.7           9         2
Price Contingencies                      37.349.7  47,424.2  84,774.0           56          27      3.0    275.4    272.4         101          3
Total PROJECT COSTS                       195,579.9 213,219.1 408,799.0            52        129  5,041.0  5,560.5 10,601.5           52       105
Thu Mar 02 17:15:35 1995
cr >
eoDW
(D (D
x
0
2-1 Project Cost Summary



India
Agricultural Human Resources Development Project
tepanditure Accounts by Cmomeanta - Totals Includixg Contingencies
ICAR (Rs 000)
Manpower
ICAR       University    In-Service         Needs
Strenathenino   Proarams        HRD/HRM      A-essment
I. Inrastn-t Costs
A. Civil Works                          32,224.5              -              -              -  32,224.5
B. Building Rentals/Furnishings         19,479.0              -              -             -  19,479.0
D. Office and other Equipment           65,580.8              -              -             -  65,580.8
E. Laboratory and Farm Equipment        30,111.7              -              -             -  30,111.7
H. Vehicles                              1,457.1              -              -             -   1,457.1
J. Training                            176,331.3              -              -              - 176,331.3
K. Technical Assistance                 16,748.6              -              -             -  16,748.6
L. Studies                               3.22.3               -              -             - 3.822.3
Total Invest*mnt Coats                     345,755.3              -              -              - 345,755.3
II. Recurrent Costa
A. Salaries                             37,925.3              -              -              -  37,925.3
B. Operations & Maintenance                365.2              -              -             -      365.2
C. Running Costs                      724.7532                -              _             -          224.532 
Total Recurrent Costs                       63.043.7              -              _              -  63043.7
total PROJZCT COSTS                         408,799.0              -              -              - 408,799.0
Taxes                                      27,676.1              -              -              -  27,676.1
Foreign Exchange                          213,219.1              -              -              - 213,219.1
Thu Mar 02 17:16:23 1995
-t):
lb1
5-  ED
Ln
5-1 Expenditure Accounts by Components -Totals Including Contingencies



India
Agricultural Human Resources Development Project
Aovenditur- Accoauts by Comonnts - Totals Inluding Conting incon.
ICAR (US$ '000)
Manpower
ICAR       University    In-Service          Needs
Strenathenina  Pr      m         HR/HRM       Assesment_   Total
X. Znve-t_ nt Costs
A. Civil Works                              808.3               -              -              -    808.3
B. Building Rentals/Furnishings             522.0               -              -              -    522.0
D. office and other Equipment             1,834.7               -              -              -  1,834.7
E. Laboratory and Farm Equipment            753.3               -              -              -    753.3
H. Vehicles                                  41.6               -              -              -      41.6
J. Training                               4,481.2               -              -              -  4,481.2
K. Technical Assistance                     434.6               -              -              -    434.6
L. Studies                                   99.3               -              -              -      99.3
Total Iuv-atant Costs                         8,975.0               -              -               -  8,975.0
II. R.currmt Costs
A. Salaries                                 978.3               -              -              -    978.3
B. Operations & Maintenance                   9.5               -              -              -       9.5
C. Running Costs                            638.7               -              -              -     6387
Total Recurrent Costs                         1.626.5               -              -               -    .626.5
Total PROJUCT COSTS                           10,601.5               -              -               - 10,601.5
Taxes                                          736.4               -              -               -    736.4
Foreign Exchange                             5,560.5               -              -               -  5,560.5
Thu Mar 02 17:16:31 1995
eD :J
PQ z
(D m
0
t6n
6-1 Expenditure Accounts by corrWonents -Totals Including Contingencies



India
Agricultural Human Resources Development Project
Project Componentu by Year
ICAR
Totals Includina Continaencies (Rs '000)                      Totals Includina Continaencies (USS '000)
95/96     96/97      97/98      98/99      99/00      Total    95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99    99/00    Total
1. ICAR Strengthening  65 244-0  71 368.1  92 740.7  93 053.9  86 392.2 408 799.0  1 944.7  1 977.0  2A40262 2275.2  2,002.1 10 6015
Total PROJECT COSSS         65,244.0  71,368.1  92,740.7  93,053.9  86,392.2 408,799.0  1,944.7  1,977.0  2,402.6  2,275.2  2,002.1 10,601.5
Thu Mar 02 17:16:40 1995
I-.
0
t >
OQ D
ID (DJ
0
7-1 Project Components by Year                                                                     Sn



India
Agricultural Human Resources Development Project
Project Cost summary
Andhra Pradesh
(Rs  000)                                            (USs ' 000
%       % Total                                     %     % Total
Foreign    Base                                     Foreign    Base
Local    Foreion    Total    xchanoe    Cos            Lca    Foreign   Total   Exchane   Csts
2. University Programs          202,394.2 290,601.7 492,995.9             59         74  6,451.8  9,263.7 15,715.5            59        74
3. In-Service HRD/HRM           109,516.7  57,148.3 166,665.0             34         25  3,491.1  1,821.7  5,312.9            34        25
4. Manpower Needs Assessment   3.483.8            41.3   3.525.0           1           1    1111 J.1     1.3    112.4          1          1
Total DABKI.ZI  coST                315,394.7 347,791.2 663,185.9             52        100 10,054.0 11,086.7 21,140.8            52       100
Physical Contingencies             25,185.9   5,600.5  30,786.4            18           5    802.9    178.5    981.4           18          5
Price Contingencies                58.547.2  78.004.3 136.551.5            57          21    -32.4      422.0    389.6        108          2
Total PROJECT COSTS                 399,127.7 431,396.1 830,523.8             52        125 10,824.5 11,687.3 22,511.8            52       106
Fri Feb 10 17:01:21 1995
t >
I-D
Oq M
0
1-1 Project Cost Suimmary                                                                                     I~
rD f



India
Agricultural Human Resources Development Project
Project Cost Buxary
Andhra Pradesh
(Rs  000)                                          (USS  000)
%      % Total                                    %     % Total
Foreign    Base                                   Foreign    Base
. Local    Foreian    Total   Rxchban      Costs    Local   Foreian   Total   Exchanae  Costs
I. Imnvstmnt Costs
A. Civil Works                       83,308.1   9,256.5  92,564.5           10         14  2,655.7    295.1  2,950.7          10        14
C. Computers                          7,581.8  30,327.2  37,909.0           80          6    241.7    966.8  1,208.4          80         6
D. Office and other Equipment         5,793.0  23,172.0  28,965.0           80          4    184.7    738.7    923.3          80         4
E. Laboratory and Farm Equipment  37,726.7 150,906.7 188,633.4              80         28  1,202.6  4,810.5  6,013.2          80        28
F. Furniture                         15,460.0          -  15,460.0           -          2    492.8          -    492.8         -         2
G. Livestock /a                       4,700.0           -   4,700.0          -          1    149.8          -    149.8          -        1
H. Vehicles                          17,936.0   4,234.0  22,170.0           19          3    571.8    135.0    706.7          19         3
I. Books and Journals                 2,000.0   8,000.0  10,000.0           80          2      63.8    255.0    318.8         80         2
J. Training                          13,225.0  63,030.0  76,255.0           83         11    421.6  2,009.2  2,430.8          83        11
K. Technical Assistance               7,342.1      815.8   8,157.9          10          1    234.0       26.0    260.1        10         1
L. Studies                            4.200.0             4.,200.0           -          1      3            - .1133.           -         1                                      F-
Total Investmnt Costs                   199,272.6 289,742.2 489,014.8            59         74  6,352.3  9,236.3 15,588.6          59        74                                      J
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                          48,301.0           -  48,301.0          -          7  1,539.7          -  1,539.7          -        7
B. Operations & Maintenance          55,955.0  55,955.0 111,910.1           50         17  1,783.7  1,783.7  3,567.4          50        17
C. Running Costs                     11.866.0   2.094.0  13.960.0           15          2    378.3       66.8    445.0        15         2
Total Recurrent Costs                   116,122.0  58.049.0 174.171.1            33         26  3.,701.7  1.8505  5.552.2          33        26
Total BABZLIf  COSTS                     315,394.7 347,791.2 663,185.9            52        100 10,054.0 11,086.7 21,140.8          52       100
Physical Contingencies                  25,185.9   5,600.5  30,786.4           18          5    802.9    178.5    981.4          18         5
Price Contingencies                     58.547.2  78.004.3 136.551.5           57         21    -32.4    422.0    389.6         108         2
Total PROJMCT COSTS                      399,127.7 431,396.1 830,523.8            52       125 10,824.5 11,687.3 22,511.8           52       106
\a Establishment of a stock.
Fri Feb 10 17:01:32 1995
0
2-1 Project Cost Summary
IJ



India
Agricultural Human Resources Development Project
*R--nditure Accoants by Comnents - Totalg Including ContIngencals
Andhra Pradesh (Rs '000)
Manpower
ICAR       University    In-Service          Needs
Strananms=                   H               Assessment       Total
I. Inyt.m  t Costs
A. Civil Works                                   -       50,686.2       72,556.7               - 123,242.8
C. Computers                                     -      35,264.5         6,840.1               -  42,104.6
D. Office and other Equipment                    -      20,660.1        12,661.9               -  33,322.0
E. Laboratory and Farm Equipment                 -     222,355.0               -               - 222,355.0
F. Furniture                                     -      10,745.2         8,190.0               -  18,935.1
G. Livestock /a                                  -        5,113.9              -               -   5,113.9
H. Vehicles                                      -      23,670.0         5,588.2               -  29,258.2
I. Books and Journals                            -      10,739.5         2,135.1               -  12,874.6
J. Training                                      -       51,653.6       46,176.7               -  97,830.4
K. Technical Assistance                          -              -        9,145.0          367.9   9,512.9
L. Studies                                       -              -        1.252.5        3.567.1  4.819.6
Total Imv-tsnet Costs                                -      430,888.0      164,546.2        3,935.0 599,369.1 . 1
IX. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                                      -       33,404.9       25,801.4          182.8  59,389.0
B. Operations & Maintenance                      -     141,049.1        12,672.4               - 153,721.5
C. Running Costs                                 -        6. 085.,4     11.861.7   ... .._1  18.,044.2
Total Recurrent Costs                                -      180.539.1                          279.9 231,154.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                   -      611,427.2      214,881.7         4,214.9 830,523.8
Taxes                                               -       99,438.1       19,245.5            19.4 118,703.0
Foreign Exchange                                    -     357,392.3        73,949.5           54.2 431,396.1
\a Establishment of a stock.
Fri Feb 10 17:02:21 1995
IX >
5-1 Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies                                                             o
U'



India
Agricultural Human Resources Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Ccomeonnts - Totals Including Contingencies
Andhra Pradesh (USS '000)
Manpower
ICAR       University    In-Service         Needs
Strenothenino   PruLram         HRD/HRM      Assessment    Tot-l
I. Investmn.t Costs
A. Civil Works                                  -       1,466.1        2,025.2              -  3,491.3
C. Computers                                   -        1,041.1          185.0              -  1,226.2
D. Office and other Equipment                  -          594.1          349.7              -    943.8
E. Laboratory and Farm Equipment               -        6,180.0              -              -  6,180.0
F. Furniture                                   -          308.9          223.7              -    532.5
G. Livestock /a                                -          146.8              -              -    146.8
H. Vehicles                                    -          678.4          160.5              -    838.9
I. Books and Journals                          -          278.8           56.6              -    335.5
J. Training                                     -       1,339.6        1,197.5              -  2,537.1
K. Technical Assistance                         -             -          248.4            9.6    258.0
L.  Studies                                    -   ------------- -        3 7 -.9.3      94.7    132.0
Total Investnent Costs                              -      12,033.9        4,484.0          104.2 16,622.1
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                                     -         861.4          664.2            4.7  1,530.3
B. Operations & Maintenance                             3,569.3          320.9              -  3,890.3
C. Running Costs                                          158.0          308.6            25    469.2
Total Recurrent Costs                               -       4.588.7       1.293.7             7.3  5.889.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                         16,622.6        5,777.7          111.5 22,511.8
Taxes                                              -       2,715.7          523.5            0.5  3,239.7
Foreign Exchange                                           9,729.8        1,956.1            1.4 11,687.3
\a Establishment of a stock.
Fri Feb 10 17:02:30 1995
(D D
0
6-1 Expenditure Accounts by Components -Totals Including Contingencies                                                          L



India
Agricultural Human Resources Development Project
ProJect Cc4vxaents by Year
Andhra Pradesh
Totals Including Continaencies (RS '000)                     Totals Includina Contingencies (USS '000)
95/96     96/97      97/98      98/99     99/00      Total    95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99    99/00    Total
2. University Programs         162,222.3 238,744.9  74,970.3  71,981.3  63,508.4 611,427.2  4,835.2  6,613.4  1,942.2  1,759.9  1,471.8 16,622.6
3. In-Service HRD/HRM           44,064.5  78,079.0  44,697.6  23,620.9  24,419-7 214,881.7  1,313.4  2,162.9  1,158.0    577.5    565.9  5,777.7
4. Manpower Needs Assessment  1.154.4         686.4   1.045.8      139.1  1.189.1   4.214.9        34.4      19.0      27.1       3.4     27.6    Ill."
Total PROJlCT COSTS               207,441.3 317,510.3 120,713.8  95,741.3  89,117.2 830,523.8  6,183.0  8,795.3  3,127.3  2,340.9  2,065.3 22,511.8
Fri Feb 10 17:02:39 1995
I-.
-n
07
7-1 Project Components by Year
U,



India
Agricultural Human Resources Develop gnt Project
proj at Cost  j z ry
Haryana
(Rs '000)                                            XUSS 'p00)
%       % Total                                    I      % Total
Foreign    Base                                    Foreign    Base
Local   _.E2La9_   Total   Z&Qbanae    Costs    Local   Foreian  _oaL   Ebans  _os
2. University Programs          117,884.4  75,268.4 193,152.7             39         45  3,757.9  2,399.4  6,157.2            39        45
3. In-Service HRD/HRM           160,367.8  67,842.4 228,210.1             30         54  5,112.1  2,162.7  7,274.8            30        54
4. Manpower Needs Assessment   3,483.8           41.   3.525.0             1          1    11 1.LJ       1.3    112.4          1         1
Total sUan.in coSoS                 281,735.9 143,152.0 424,887.8             34        100  8,981.1  4,563.3 13,544.4           34       100
Physical Contingencies            21,221.6   3,148.4  24,369.9             13           6    676.5     100.4    776.9          13         6
Price Contingencies               54.528.0  33.627.1  88.155.1             38         21    -71.8    184.4    112.6           164         1
Total P1RJUCT COSTS                 357,485.4 179,927.4 537,412.9             33        126  9,585.8  4,848.1 14,433.9           34       107
Wed Feb 15 14:27:24 1995
FI-
10 Pt
0
1-1 Project Cost Summnary
Ln'



India
Agricultural Human Resources Development Project
Project Cost Summary
Haryana
(Rs '000)                                           (USS '000)
E      9 Total                                     9     9 Total
Foreign    Base                                    Foreign    Base
Local    Foreian   Total   Exchange    Costs    Local   Foreigm   Total   Exchange  Costs
I. Investinnt Costs
A. Civil Works                       91,287.0  10,143.0 101,430.0            10         24  2,910.0    323.3  3,233.3           10        24
C. Computers                          4,679.4  1R,717.6  23,397.0            80          6    149.2    596.7    745.8           80          6
D. Office and other Equipment         5,422.6  21,690.4  27,113.0            80          6    172.9    691.4    864.3           80         6
E. Laboratory and Farm Equipment   5,410.0  21,640.0  27,050.0               80          6    172.5    689.8    862.3           80         6
F. Furniture                          6,560.0           -   6,560.0           -          2    209.1           -    209.1          -        2
H. Vehicles                           5,560.0   1,390.0   6,950.0            20          2    177.2       44.3    221.5         20         2
I. Books and Journals                 3,720.0  14,890.0  19,600.0            80          4    118.6    474.3    592.9           s0         4
J. Training                          67,606.0  36,750 0 104,356.0            35         25  2,155.1  1,171.5  3,326.6           35        25
K. Technical Assistance                9,947 7   1,105.3  11,053.0           10           3    317.1      35.2    352.3         10          3
L. Studies                            4.200.0   __           42    4 20 0.0   -          1    '.9            -    133.939                  1
Total Investment Costs                   204,392 7 126,316.3 330,09.0             38         7%  6,515.5  4,026.7 13,542.2           36
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                          53,420.0               53,420.0           -        13  1,-2.9            -  1,72.9           -       13
B. Operations & Maintenance          15,316.9  15,31>.9  3,6>.6              50so              466.3    4R8.3    9-6.5          5
C. Running Costs                        .60.3   1,516.   10.125.0            15           2 '       24.3  46.4    3   6      _  . -    _   2
Total Recurrent Costs                     77.343.1  ' eR35.   943 16.8            18   _      2  2.465.5    5366.7 3       2                   21
Total BASELINE COSTS                      281,735.9 143,152.2 424,RR7-.            34        1R0  8,92'.1  4,563.3 13,544.4           34      110
Physical Contingencies                  21,221.6   3,146.4  24,369.9           1            6    676.5    100.4    --6.9           13         6
Price Contingencies                      54.528.0  33.627.1 A88.15.1            38         21    -71.  1 R8 --._I44  _112 6       164          1
Total PROJECT COSTS                       357,485.4 179,927.4 537,412.9            33        126  9,585.  4,949.1 14,433.9           34       137
Wed Feb 15 14:27:35 1995
m  ZJ
M  rb
2-1 Project Cost Summary                                                                                    it
nJ



India
Agricultural Human Resources Development Project
Projct Components by Year
Haryana
Totals Including Contingencies (Rs '000)                        Totals Including Contingencies (USS '000)
95/96      96/97      97/98      98/99       99/00      Total    95/96    96/97    97/9    89/ 99    99/00    Total
2. University Programs           57,146.6  72,772.8  41,410.7  33,290.7  35,398.2 240,018.9  1,703.3  2,015.9  1,072.8                814.0    820.4  6,426.3
3. In-Service HRD/HRM            64,181.4 106,578.4  56,146.4  31,634.1  34,638.8 293,179.2  1,913.0  2,952.3  1,454.6    773.5    802.8  7,896.1
4. Manpower Needs Assessment   1.154.4          6        186.    1045.8  139,1    1189.1   4.214.9       34,4      19.0       27.1      3.4      27,6 
Total PROJECT COSTS                 122,482.5 180,037.6  98,602.9  65,063.9  71,226.1 537,412.9  3,650.7  4,987.2  2,554.5  1,590.8  1,650.7 14,433.9
Wed Feb 15 14:28:39 1995
Og )
CO
7-1 Project Components by Year                                                                                    0
1-nl



India
Agricultural Human Resources Development Project
N5elld.iture Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
Haryana (Rs 000)
Manpower
ICAR       University    In-Service          Needs
Strenathening   Proarams         HRD/LRML    Assessment        Total
1. Invuatmnt Cost.
A. Civil Works                                   -      29,530.8      107,387.0                - 136,917.7
C. Computers                                     -      24,776.1         2,477.2               -  27,253.3
D. Office and other Equipment                    -      14,160.4        17,033.4               -  31,193.8
E. Laboratory and Farm Equipment                 -      21,526.1        10,095.8              -  31,621.9
F. Furniture                                     -          418.2        7,557.4              -   7,975.6
H. Vehicles                                      -       4,798.9         4,228.9              -   9,027.9
I. Books and Journals                            -      22,430.3        1,595.8               -  24,026.0
J. Training                                      -      84,509.1        45,716.5               - 130,225.7
K. Technical Assistance                          -              -       12,309 .9         367.9  12,677.8
L. Studies                                       -              -        1 252.5        3.567.1   4.819.6
Total Inveut-t Costs                                 -      202,149.8      209,654.4        3,935.0 415,739.2
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                                      -        9,128.6       57,137.3          182.8  66,448.6                                                                      UD
B. Operations & Maintenance                      -      25,115.1        16,856.7                  41,971.9
C. Running Costs                                 -       3.625.3  .      9530,7            97.1  13.253.1
Total Recurrent Costs                                       -37.87 9.       83.524.7           279.9 121,673.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                   -      240,018.9      293,179.2         4,214.9 537,412.9
Taxes                                                       26,323.2       24,613.9            19.4  50,956.5
Foreign Exchange                                    -       92,239.8       87,633.4           54.2 179,927.4
Wed Feb 15 14:28:22 1995
1>
(DS 
x
5-1 Expenditure Accounts by Components- Totals Including Contingencies
0



India
Agricultural Human Resources Development Project
'xp-ndituz  Accouzts by Ccepin-ts - Totals Zocludig Contingemies
Haryana (US$ '000)
Manpower
ICAR       University    In-Service          Needs
Strenthnina                      H            AsRsessAen      Total
X. Inaustmgt costs
A. Civil Works                                   -          810.7        3,021.4               -  3,832.1
C. Computers                                     -          698.4           66.3               -    764.7
D. Office and other Equipment                    -          408.5          475.0               -    883.4
E. Laboratory and Farm Equipment                 -          610.5          273.9               -    884.3
F. Furniture                                     -           12.3          213.5               -    225.8
H. Vehicles                                      -          143.0          119.5               -    262.6
I. Books and Journals                            -          581.5           43.0               -    624.6
J. Training                                      -        2,196.9        1,178.5               -  3,375.4
K. Technical Assistance                          -              -          339.2             9.6    348.8
L. Studies                                       -              -           37.3           94.7    132.0
Total Invxetment Costs                               -        5,461.9        5,767 6           104.2 11,333.7
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                                      -          233.7        1,456.4             4.7  1,694.8                                                                      O
B. Operations & Maintenance                                 636.6          427.8               -  1,064.4
C. Running Costs                                 -           94.1          244.3                    3 92.5  34.
Total Recurrent Costs                                           964.4        2.128.5           7.3  3,100.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                            6,426.3        7,896.1           111.5 14,433.9
Taxes                                               -          718.1          674.8             0.5  1,393.4
Foreign Exchange                                    -        2,518.3        2,328.4             1.4  4,848.1
Wed Feb 15 14:28:31 1995
1-n
6-1 Expenditure Accozmts by Ccmponent  cls          :r. c_ud-.g Cor.tngenc_es                                                        F



India
Agricultural Human Resources Development Project
Proj ct Cost BUmry
Tamil Nadu
(RS '0001                                          (USS  o000)
%      % Total                                    %     % Total
Foreign    Rase                                   Foreign    Base
_Lcal_  Porein    Tneal   Exchnao   __Cos    Local   Foreian   Total   PxShn=a   Costsn
2. University Programs         245,542.8 380,595.7 626,138.4           61         80  7,827.3 12,132.5 19,959.8           61       80
3. In-Service HRD/HRM           91,473.5  65,765.8 157,239.3           42         20  2,916.0  2,096.5  5,012.4           42       20
4. Manpower Needs Assessment   3.483.8         41.3   3.525.0           1 -- -_          111.1       1.3    112.4          1 _      -
Total UsA.ZR  COBS"                340,500.1 446,402.7 786,902.7           57        100 10,854.3 14,230.2 25,084.6          57       100
Physical Contingencies           27,591.9   4,626.8  32,218.7           14          4    879.6    147.5  1,027.1           14         4
Price Contingencies              57.360.3 106.476.8 163.837.1           65         21    -74.8    590.7    515.i          114        2
Total ProUCr cco                   425,452.2 557,506.3 982,958.4           57        125 11,659.1 14,968.4 26,627.5          56       106
Wed Feb 15 14:32:40 1995
1-1 Project Cost Summary
0
Ln



India
Agricultural Human Resources Development Project
Proj ect Coat ab ury
Tamil Nadu
Rs '0001                                           (USS '000)
%      % Total                                    %     % Total
Foreign    Base                                   Foreign    Base
Local    Foreian    Total   Exchange    Costs    Local   Foriag     n   Total           ae Caosts
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                      112,B56.4  12,539.6 125,396.0           10         16  3,597.6    399.7  3,997.3          10        16
C. Computers                         10,416.4  41,665.6  52,082.0           80          7    332.0  1,328.2  1,660.2          80         7
D. Office and other Equipment         6,039.0  24,156.0  30,195.0           80          4    192.5    770.0    962.5          80         4
E. Laboratory and Farm Equipment  24,016.0  96,064.0 120,080.0              80         15    765.6  3,062.3  3,827.9          80        15
F. Furniture                         14,205.0          -  14,205.0           -          2    452.8          -    452.8         -         2
H. Vehicles                           7,160.0   1,790.0   8,950.0           20          1    228.2       57.1    285.3        20         1
I. Books and Journals                 7,280.0  29,120.0  36,400.0           80          5    232.1    928.3  1,160.3          80         5
J. Training                          40,857.5 167,156.0 208,013.5           80         26  1,302.4  5,328.5  6,631.0          80        26
K. Technical Assistance              28,492.0  38,694.2  67,186.1           58          9    908.3  1,233.5  2,141.7          58         9
L. Studies                            4.550.0          -   4.550.0           -          1    145.0          -    145.0         - -       1 .
Total Znyestmunt Coxts                  255,872.3 411,185.4 667,057.6            62        85  8,156.6 13,107.6 21,264.2           62        85
I1. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                          41,266.0           -  41,266.0          -          5  1,315.5          -  1,315.5         -         5
B. Operations & Maintenance          33,472.1  33,472.1  66,944.1           50          9  1,067.0  1,067.0  2,134.0          50         9
C. Running Costs                    9.889.8   1.745.3  11.635.0             15          1    315,.3     55.6         370.9    15         1
Total Recurrent Costs                    84.627.8  35.217.3 1198.45.1           29         15  2.697.7  1.122.6  3.820.4           29        is
Total DASZLINZ COSTS                     340,500.1 446,402.7 786,902.7            57       100 10,854.3 14,230.2 25,084.6           57      100
Physical Contingencies                  27,591.9   4,626.8  32,218.7           14          4    879.6    147.5  1,027.1          14         4
Price Contingencies                     57.360.3 106.476.8 163.837.1           65         21    -74.8    590.7    51.5.9        114         2
Total PROJUC  COSTS                      425,452.2 557,506.3 982,958.4            57       125 11,659.1 14,968.4 26,627.5          56       106
Wed Feb 15 14:32:50 1995
rD
2-1 Project Cost Surmary
Ln



India
Agricultural Human Resources Development Project
txpenditure Accounts by Cponents - Totals Including Contingencies
Tamil Nadu (Rs '000)
Manpower
ICAR       University    In-Service          Needs
Strenathenino   Proaramg         HRD/HRM    _Asessmenx         Total
I. Inn-stint Costs
A. Civil Works                                   -     140,172.3        25,877.4               - 166,049.7
C. Computers                                     -      54,067.2         2,705.5               -  56,772.7
D. Office and other Equipment                    -      22,285.9        11,858.5               -  34,144.4
E. Laboratory and Farm Equipment                 -     143,711.9         1,806.7               - 145,518.6
F. Furniture                                     -      11,838.5         5,366.5               -  17,205.0
H. Vehicles                                      -       7,829.8         3,696.3               -  11,526.1
I. Books and Journals                            -      46,092.2         1,073.3               -  47,165.5
J. Training                                      -     187,410.7        72,676.8               - 260,087.4
K. Technical Assistance                          -      71,248.8         9,790.2          367.9  81,406.8
L. Studies                                       -              -        1.617.8        35.67.1   5.184.9
Total Investment Costs                               -      684,657.3      136,468.9        3,935.0 825,061.2                                                                       F'
II. Recurrent Costs                                                                                                                                                                 N.
A. Salaries                                      -       7,574.0        42,524.4          182.8  50,281.1
B. Operations & Maintenance                      -      80,739.6        11,810.1               -  92,549.6
C. Running Costs                                 -       9.u646.0        S.323.S            7.1  15.066.6
Total Recurrent Costs                                -       97..959iS9.5  S.59657.9          279.9 157. 897 .3
Total PROJECT COSTS                                   -      782,616.7      196,126.8        4,214.9 982,958.4
Taxes                                               -       89,259.4       11,315.8            19.4 100,594.7
Foreign Exchange                                    -     474,391.3        83,060.8           54.2 557,506.3
Wed Feb 15 14:33:38 1995
t >
OQ~
(D  M
Lo 
0
NJ
5-1 Expenditure Accounts by Components -Totals Including Contingencies                                                             Un



India
Agricultural Human Resources Development Project
.pend4itUre Accounto by CCoV Antu - Totals IncluA4i  Contingencies
Tamil Nadu (USS '000)
Manpower
ICAR       University    In-Service          Needs
Strenathanina   Proarams         Hpn/HRM    _AsssmAenL    Total
I. ramveutint Costs
A. Civil Works                                   -       3,982.9           744.0               -  4,726.8
C. Computers                                     -       1,597.2            80.4               -  1,677.6
D. Office and other Equipment                    -          629.7          350.6               -    980.3
E. Laboratory and Farm Equipment                 -       3,914.4            47.7               -  3,962.1
F. Furniture                                     -          334.4          154.3               -    488.7
H. Vehicles                                      -          233.4          104.4               -    337.8
I. Books and Journals                            -       1,195.0            28.4               -  1,223.3
J. Training                                      -       4,972.5         1,897.7               -  6,870.2
K. Technical Assistance                          -       1,926.3           254.0            9.6  2,189.8
L. Studies                                       -              -           48.2           94,7 .i   142.
Total Invest int Costs                               -       18,785.8        3,709.6           104.2 22,599.6
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                                      -          196.7        1,104.5            4.7  1,306.0
B. Operations & Maintenance                      -       2,028.3           302.5               -  2,330.8
C. Running Costs                                 -          204            138.2            2.5         .
Total Recurront Cost.                                -        2475.5       1.545.2             7.3  4.027.9
Total PROJRCT COSTS                                   -       21,261.2        5,254.8           111.5 26,627.5
Taxes                                               -        2,434.9          315.7             0.5  2,751.0
Foreign Exchange                                    -       12,753.0        2,214.0             1.4 14,968.4
Wed Feb 15 14:33:46 1995
MI
fD X
0
6-1 Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
N)



India
Agricultural Human Resources Development Project
Project Coponnte by Year
Tamil Nadu
Totals Includino Continaencies (Rs '000)                      Totals Includina Continaencies (USS 1000)
95/96     96/97         97/98    _8/L9     99/00      Total          95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99    99/00    Total
2. University Programs         236,810.0 226,957.9 151,037.4  89,385.5  78,425.8 782,616.7  7,058.4  6,286.9  3,912.9  2,185.5  1,817.5 21,261.2
3. In-Service HRD/HRM           58,503.2  43,031.7  31,581.8  31,852.7  31,157.4 196,126.8  1,743.8  1,192.0    818.2    778.8    722.1  5,254.8
4. Manpower Needs Assessment   1. 1 5 4.4     686.4      LJa 1.05.8 13.1  1.189.1   4.214.9          34.4      19.0      27.1    3.4        27.6    lll.S
Total PROJECT COSTS                296,467.7 270,676.0 183,665.1 121,377.3 110,772.3 982,958.4  8,836.6  7,498.0  4,758.2  2,967.7  2,567.1 26,627.5
Wed Feb 15 14:33:55 1995
ro
Ln
(D (D
I-X
7-1 Project Components by Year
0



126



127
Annex 8
Page 1 of 6
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement
Civil Works--LCB
1.    The project supports civil works valued at the equivalent of US$12.86 million. These
would consist of construction of a few training institutes with hostels and residential quarters
and renovation and upgradation of existing buildings. Works valued at US$11.2 million
would be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of LCB procedures acceptable to
IDA. The justification for LCB for these civil works is that they consist of the rehabilitation
and modernization of existing buildings or the construction of new buildings in widely
scattered locations spread over three states, four universities with multiple campuses and
ICAR, New Delhi, during the first three years of the project. The largest contract is likely to
be less than US$1.4 million equivalent. Therefore, it is unlikely that foreign firms would find
such contracts attractive. Nevertheless, bids from foreign contractors would not be precluded.
2.    Bidding Documents The standard bidding documents acceptable to IDA would be
adopted and contract concluded following procedures acceptable to IDA.
3.    Land. Land is available for all new works.
4.    Packages of Works. Works have been grouped into convenient packages. As far as
possible, all the new construction at a particular location have been made into one package.
This is also the case for rehabilitation works.
5.    The organization-wise number/value of packages is as follows:



128                                      Annex 8
Page 2 of 6
Civil Works Procurement Packages
Ognzation      PeRve         otRiwVl
Haryana Agricultural      3             3             6                3.55
University
Haryana State
Departments
Andhra Pradesh             1            12           13                1.1
Agricultural University
Andhra Pradesh State      2             6             8                1.6
Departments
Tamil Nadu                4             -            4                 2.1
Agricultural University
Tamil Nadu Veterinary     2             3             5                1.3
and Animal Sciences
University
Tamil Nadu State           1            2             3                0.5
Departments
ICAR                       1            2            3                 0.7
Total                     14           28            42               10.85
6.     Procurement Schedules. Detailed procurement schedules for all the packages in the
standard format have been prepared and are given in Attachment 1.
7.     Procurement Agents. Participating entities would use procurement agents as follows:
(a)    Haryana. HAU has a construction wing headed by a chief engineer, who is
capable of preparing the designs, drawings and cost estimates as well as
procuring and supervising the civil works. The civil works of the Departments
would also be designed, procured and supervised by HAU. The university
proposes to hire the services of an architect, whenever needed.
(b)    Andhra Pradesh. APAU has a construction wing which is capable of
preparing the designs, drawings and cost estimates as well as procuring and
supervising the civil works. The University proposes to hire the services of an
architect, whenever needed. The civil works of the Departments would be
designed, procured and supervised by Andhra Pradesh Infrastructural
Development Corporation, which would be hired as a procurement agent. The
Corporation has qualified architects on its roll.



Annex 8
129                                Page 3 of 6
(c)   Tamil Nadu. Both TNAU and TNVASU propose to hire the services of
RITES India Ltd. as procurement agent for the construction of civil works.
The fees for the services have been included into project cost estimates. The
civil works of the Departments would be executed by the State Public Works
Department.
(d)   ICAR. The major civil works are proposed in the second year of the project,
and ICAR is yet to take a decision on the agency to be entrusted with civil
works design, procurement and supervision.
8.    Review of Design, Specification and Bidding Documents. Detailed design of the
works and preparation of cost estimates would be completed before negotiations for the prior-
review packages to be awarded in the first two years of the project, and prior to the invitation
to bid for the balance of post-review and pre-review packages. These woukl be reviewed by
the Highway Engineer (Long-Term Consultant) of NDO or by consultants to be hired by
NDO. The commercial conditions would be reviewed by the Procurement Unit of NDO.
Civil Works--Force Account
9.    Force Account procedures would be used for all small civil works valued at
US$20,000 equivalent or less, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.5 million equivalent, and
would be carried out by the state departments, universities and ICAR or let out on the basis
of invited quotations from three qualified contractors. These works are not suitable for
competitive bidding due to the small amounts involved. Monitoring of works carried out
under Force Account would be done under procedures acceptable to IDA. Materials required
for these works (aggregating to about US$0.8 million) would be procured following Local
Shopping procedures.
Goods/Equipment
10.   ICB/LCB. Goods--in particular, laboratory equipment and computers--would be
procured using ICB procedures. However, equipment estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of US$200,000 up to an aggregate of US$3.8 million equivalent would be procured
using LCB procedures. Laboratory and other scientific equipment of small value involving
payment in foreign currency would also be procured following ICB procedures.
11.   Bidding Documents. The Standard Bidding Documents issued recently by the
Government of India in consultation with the Bank would be adopted and contracts concluded
following procedures acceptable to IDA.
12.   Packaging of Goods/Equipment. Convenient packages have been framed for each
category of equipment. Separate industry-wise schedules have been prepared. The
organization-wise number/value of packages is given in Attachment 3.



130                      ~~~~~~Annex 8
130                                Page 4 of 6
13.   Procurement Schedule. Detailed procurement schedules for all the packages in the
standard format have been prepared and presented in Attachment 2.
14.   Procurement Agents. Participating entities would use procurement agents as follows:
(a)   Haryana. HAU and the state departments intend to procure goods/equipment
for the project on their own following Bank procedures. HAU authorities
intend to create a procurement cell headed by a procurement ofticer. The
procurement of the departments would be done by the Stores and Purchase
Department of GOH.
(b)   Andhra Pradesh. APAU also has experience procuring equipment and has the
necessary expertise. APAU authorities propose to procure the project-financed
equipment following Bank Procurement Guidelines. The University intends to
create a procurement cell headed by a procurement officer to ensure speedy
and successful procurement. Procurement for the four participating state
departments would be done by the Agriculture Department.
(c)   Tamil Nadu. Both TNAU and TNVASU intend to hire the services of RITES
India Ltd. as procurement agent for procurement of goods/equipment. Fees for
this service have been built into project costs. Procurement of equipment for
the participating departments would be done by the Agriculture and Animal
Husbandry Departments.
(d)   ICAR. ICAR intends to procure the equipment on its own following Bank
procedures.
15.   Review of Specifications of Equipment and Bidding Documents. Bidding
Documents along with detailed specification for each of the items of equipment for ICB/LCB
prior-review packages to be procured during the first two years of the project would be
completed before negotiations. For post-review packages and other prior-review packages
scheduled to be procured in later years, the detailed specifications would be finalized before
invitation of bids. These would be reviewed by the Senior Projects Officer (Agriculture) of
NDO or by Consultants to be hired by NDO. Commercial conditions would be reviewed by
the Procurement Unit of NDO.
16.   Shopping. Small items of equipment, furniture and some field and laboratory supplies
and software would be procured by the development departments of the participating states,
the four universities and ICAR in small lots over the five-year implementation period.
Individual contracts are not expected to exceed $25,000 and as such, would be procured using
Local or International Shopping procedures satisfactory to Bank. Itemized lists of the
proposed procurement under Shopping arrangements have been prepared by the various
participating entities. The aggregate amount under shopping arrangements is likely to total
US$5.8 million equivalent. Rate contracts concluded only by Directorate-General of Supplies



131                                    Annex 8
Page 5 of 6
and Disposals (DGS&D), New Delhi, would be acceptable as a substitute for Local Shopping
procedures.
17.   Direct Contracting. Books, periodicals, old issues of journals, proprietary
equipment/software, spare parts and materials compatible with existing equipment valued at
an aggregate of about US$2.2 million equivalent would be procured under Direct Contracting
procedures. Itemized lists have been prepared. Lists of books and journals would be drawn
up and procured during the implementation period.
18.   Livestock. Participating universities would procure livestock valued at a total of
US$0.3 million following usual government procedures.
19.   Vehicles. Vehicles for the project consist of a small number of four-wheel drive
vehicles, two-wheel drive vehicles, cars, light trucks, mini-buses and ambulances. Four-wheel
drive vehicles are manufactured by only one company in India and DGS&D rate contracts
exist for them. DGS&D rate contracts are also available for most of the other vehicles. The
requirement of vehicles covers the fourteen departments of the three states, four universities
and ICAR, and procurement would be spread over the project period (being done as and when
the need arises and sanctions are obtained). Therefore, central and lumped procurement is not
feasible. Individual contracts are not likely to be more than US$100,000. Hence, the
vehicles for the project would be procured acceptable under Local Shopping procedures,
under which DGS&D rate contracts are acceptable.
Technical Assistance, Studies and Training
20.   Technical assistance and consultancy services for studies estimated at US$3.7 million
would be hired following procedures prescribed in Bank Guidelines (1981). A number of
individual consultants would also be hired for specific assignments. They would be hired
mostly on a single source basis. The standard letter of invitation and conditions of contract
would be used for all consultancy contracts.
21.   Training. Training, both foreign and local, would be conducted for faculty members
of the four universities, training institutes of the state governments and ICAR in foreign/local
universities/institutions. Costs include the placement and support for short- to long-term
courses as well as study visits. Detailed training plans have been prepared indicating the
number of personnel to be trained, the areas of study, the organization/institution where they
are to be deputed and the years in which staff would be deputed. A composite project
training plan is given in Annex 9, and detailed training plans are given in the Project Files.
IIAU, APAU and ICAR propose to identify the institutions/organizations themselves for
training and also look after the logistics of deputation of faculty member/personnel for
training. TNAU and TNVASU propose to entrust the foreign training (identification,
placement and support) to the Food and Agricultural Organization of the UN (FAO), which is



Annex 8
132                                      Page 6 of 6
experienced in such assignments. The fees for this facilitation have been included in the
project cost estimates. Local training would be arranged by the universities and the state
department themselves at identified institutions.



FORM NO.1934
(1-83)
PROCUREMENT SCIEDULE FOR CML WORKS
COUNTRY : INDIA                                                                                                          PROJECT: AGRIICULTURE HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
11 C CS HARYANA AGRICLTU1RE UNVER STY HISSAR AND GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
DESCRf PTE*N OF ITEM   PCETO    EST
AND                CF     COST   1 9 9 4             1 9 9 5                !          1 9  9 6                                1 9  9  7                       1 9 9 8                           1 9 9 9
QUANTiTY           PRO    RS(M) SCONDJFI                          A        IN ID AJ IF                S   0 JMDF                                                 AMJ  J A i  SOO DIMA                    J AS    ND
Proatm9tio of Buikings for                                                         -            1vt                          J M        M       jS O ~ JH
1~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~: 2
.CCSHA.UH-, r              LCB/Pr.       21 1 2    34           679               19     _18
Pw"ge~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 2
R m s C S H .A U .,H os ar  LCB/Post  0101
Padrage 23                                                                                         ...                    ~
Cituton o BuiidkV of 
State oorrs)stmg of Anirnal                                                                           II1 2~  
Husbarniy & Fish Department-                                                                                          11.
aHisair                   LCB/t.r   36 71 12    3          4     96   7 8                           9                1                 
State Hoft~ukure DeparImontI
atKafytl                 LCB/Pr.    34 68 1 2    31   14         5 6   7 8                                           1 01    I      !ll 11                 2
Pm~~~~~~~~~ap6tos                                                                                               5                             I I    12
Air-condoii oLOcIlo
stat. for HorltmjtreDptf__                                                                                                                                                                     '     I.i
at H                                                                                                                                  9   I0;ar1              
f-t
Page 1



F0W NOie34
(1 -S3)
PRocuNM           SCHEDUIE FOR cIVL WOK
COtUNRY : IINIA                                                                                                                       PRlOJE(Tr AGICUITUFIE HUMhAN RESOURCES DEVIELOPMIEN
1) AI)HAPRA)ESArRICULTURE UNIVERSrTY. NYDE-RASAD
DESCP11PT5NO  TM           WPET00    EST.f
AND                  CF      COST   1 99 4                 1 9 95                                1   9     96                                1  9  97                               99                                 199 
OUAN1TrY              F~X            j S  0  N  D  i  F  M A   M iJ   J  A                                     A 0  N   i  FN                                                F__ _T__ _____ ____ _TA__T___N__D
Constmoctionr of buidirngs ar
Re nrngr                       CIoI          3 2           1   4 5          99                          10.               11
Package 2
Coonsirction of Sj.nm,ng
Pool at Rapendranagar    __ LCRIPe          98 53____2__3                                                                                      4____ 5          8                9                1 ________
P cae3:-                                                                                                                              _ _ _ _
Sitaworks for Home Science
Ck    at Raferdranaga,   iCB/Post    0 72 6                                              1         4  5         8     ~      9                1 0          1 1           1 2                                                           ___
Package 4:
Construction of Buildings at    LBPs          5            1    i                                  0            1        1  
Package 5                             -                                    
CorEtructiDn of Buidinrgs at
Bapatta                      LC f..-o 4r      33 .4                      -   8:                            1 0                                1                                _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Packag. 6
Construction of Building at
Nm,,waape                    LOB/Poo        351                45       :8                -9               10                                12~
PackageSf 7                                                                                                                                   2                                                    
Conutruct,on ofBu,ideirgat                                                                                       I
Paduags 8 
Cractoection of Buloeat                                            V        8914[
Na~ aarry                    LCB/Posl      3196           1    45           8,9110                                                       1     2
Censvtiotn of Builings at                                                                                                                                                                                                    i 
Tirupali          LOB/Pool      1~~~~.75                                          I         45          8               8                1012
Package 10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pg 



FORM NO. 1934
(1-B3)
PROCUIRMEN 9CHEDULE FOR CIVL ~WOK
COeIHTRY : CGA                                                                                                                  PRCJECT, AGKCU.LTUR H4*.SA  RESOMMS DEVELOPMET
1) ML4 A  AN4GDHIRAPRADE TS_ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ __ _ _ SH_ _ __ _ __OVE_ __ __                                                       _ ___NMENTDEPARTMENTS_ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ __ _                              __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _
DEOW rION OF [EM        METHOD      ST 
AND                 CF   O1   194                         9 95                               19 96                                     1 99 7                             19 99                               1 9 99
OUANTrrY             PR.   RS, M)SO1 NID JIF MA  M JJ  A SIOINID JIF MIATM J J A SO0N IDJ7FM  A M  J  JAAS                                                 IN_JFIM A MJIJIASO D                         M       M  J STaND
Coratrutain of Traininig Biock.
Hoatol atAaskHydwrabad      LCB/pra        30 12 3        45    6/61                                                                112
Padags 2
F.otwise Trainirg CatrV,
Adirm Teacteng and HosTel__E                                                                                                                               I- -
Bloks aatKMuflda            LCB/Pr.        4    2 3    4 5   .6/79                               91                1                             11 
FurnietwiV g   Seminar Hal,I                                                                     
Wall Panama. Ast, Hyderabad  LCB/Post    0 78                            1     4    5          61--                    10    11l    15     1______________
Auowkan,4 Lounrgo, IrSt Roads
ar  tAt,Hyderabad      LCB/Post      I                              I                                                     41                    9 a101 _________2__
Cortsa at Anantaour         LOB/Post!   2  20 5  I                                                         91         ;10,   1   -   12                      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
In  Trarn,rrgoanfar  I   2205~~~~~~~~~~~         I ~~            5        8                       10             2 
Constrction oCiassrooms              I       I.  
Mandapet E.EGodavan Dai   iLCB/Post,  1 1866   1I                     i ii  4,   5            6            9           101   11   1I2       '
Paclrage. a,' 
I-.aTrainig Cartar    I                                    I...
atNralalKurnool Dstnt      iLC B/Posti  2  205                                 4     5        8            9           10    11    1 2                   _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Pacitag 9.
in-seryn0 Trau,wg Coma,
Ia. mat,und.,w Na.rnkabd D,s1 LCRiPost   2 205~                                 A                                      14  0'I    12j
Page 3



FOM NO.1934
(1.83)
PF _R AE  S9ED4LE FOR CIVL W3Ff
COtUrRY:    A                                                                                                          PRJECT: ARCLnTUFM HFA  E9SOURCE  DEV.PEL T
ASL NAlWl_                                                                                                                                                                         
1) TAiL NADU AIGRAnE iL        I=   cOI3fATOE
CENOFTIlEI CF rrEM          D   ESr.
AND               CF       16r  1 9 9 4             1 9 9 5                          1 9 9 6                                 1 9 9  7                       1 998                   1 9  9  9
d rPOUANnT       n     FRoG   RS. ()S4   JOIN        FMI   I JI     10t t     IID J IF IM A IIJJAIS            IN ID J IF  M  AIDJI  AI             N        J IF IM   A MJ IJ 1A IS JOI  D F J IF IM  : IA^MJ       sIN D
H.d and ,PrfearOuartom   LC/Pr.    27.784 12       3  141    5161  78                                           _  10     1     I   I I    I  I  1  I    ,I1       12 
Asaoc., Asat arid V'idlng
ProhsemwOuaf.n            LOB/Pr.    2        1 2    3   j    56       78               jJ                                         _         2
=a"Inn         Quarters    LOCFPr.          1       3 9 41    58       78         9      10   11        12                                                                      6                        1 9 9 
Emm.ulon HaN and HaspitI
&jdiwfOGPr                              6.12        j   4j     5 6     7 8        9      i01j2                    -
TA&8L NAMJ VETERIARY AND APMMAL SCENCES UNIVEtSITY
CECFTI0 NCFrTEM        WrHOD   EST.                                                                                                                                                                                      Cr[  a
AND               CF        s    1 9 94             199 5                  L         189 96                                  1 9  97                         19 99                            1 9 99
ANTTTY             PF      RM  SO INID IJ F MIA   M J J JA S O N ID J IF  V A M J J A IS O N D  Ji  F  MA,M;J.J  A'S  ON   D J  F M;AMJJ ASJO N   D J1F  M  A,MJIJ1ASIOND
Padmp 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I13'                                          I      
'Zordutvuctooon uiidsnL   LCOBPre      25.5 1 2      '4 5  6/7 a                          9             10               11           12
Padiag.2J                                                                      iIi                                                                                              I
Sup*l and .nhr. cb aar
Cnt,ni S9.m tor                                 Ii     ii                                                    I    Ij|'        I |   ,                           |I|                .                   |    i      ,
Litmrya ad Coputw  r|                           IjI                                                          I CIeIe
at tt plan                LO/P        G 45                                            |                     3 4 5          8        9          10       1 1   12 
Padiagg 4
CoOIuncSOE of Sporn ts
Crnftplexat Sni ankb      LOB/Post      2 6    1345                                         1 LII 
Page 4



FOM NO.1934
(11-113)
PROCUREIEW 9HEDiLE FOR CN V&
COUDEIR: IIIDA                                                                                                    PRtOJECT: AGNICLL1UJRE HLJMA RESOURCES DEVEOPENT
2) TA&L NADtU DEPARTMENTS __
DESQqT1ON OFrrEM      MEHO    ESr.
AND               CF     OS 1*    9 9 4           1 99 5                          19965                                 19  97                        1999 a                 1  99  9
Padwg 1 :
Sta oolat Tmining Cwib
frA.H.O.paimMt           LCB1,Prw    10.3 1 2       34      56 j    9  9j1  __1J1
Packug. 2:
strnwhIwiin @ Tfamng
=.ar=n,M w         p     I H   1fl"Poat  2.7          1                                                                                                               J    0 1       21  11
Packgp 3:
FOM NO.1934
(1-63)
COU4WR    61BA                                                                                                    PRJB T: GLThR HUE       F9 N  Ot3CESB DEVELOPhDff
DECITO  FE            METHOD   EST.
AND               CF    OT    199 4               1 99 5                          1  9926                              1 997                          1999 aI9 9 9
OUANTYIY          PRC    R~S-        I0N  DiFM             JAS0              FI !  AI  Jj !AS  0 'NO D J IF M  :,AM  J!  A  S!              ;D  J  FMIA MI IJ JA S O N  D J ~F'M A 'MiJ 1'A 'S JOND
Padmaga I.-                                                                                                                 ~~-
i) Pr.pmIuofl @4 Cooputar4                                                                                                        I 
0.1 I i 1I    I  I   ii 12
MHydarab.d        ~~LcB'pm     051    41   5.                           9                                                                                     ii           111112
Oo.um B@4E  Lt 8.ur 
Page 5



PREQUALIFICATION ACTIONS                             PROCUREMENT ACTIONS
A  INITIATE PREPARATION OF PREOUALIFICATION DOCUMENTS AND    1 INmATE PREPARATION OF SPECIFICATIONS AND BID DOCUMENTS
EVALUATION CRITERIA
2 TRANSMIT SPECIFICATIONS AND BID DOCUMENTS TO IDA
B TRANSMIT DOCUMENTS AND CRITERIA TO IDA
3 IDA CLEARANCE OF SPECIFICATION AND BID DOCUMENTS
C IDA CLEARANCE OF DOCUMENTS AND CRITERIA
4 ISSUE INVITATION TO BID
D  ISSUE PREOUAUFICATION NOTICE
5 OPEN BIDS
E  RECEIPT OF CONTRACTOR PREQUALIFICATION DATA
6 TRANSMIT EVALUATION REPORT AND AWARD
F TRANSMIT EVALUATION REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS TO IDA  RECOMMENDATIONS TO IDA
G  IDA CLEARANCE OF RECOMMENDATIONS                  7  IDA CLEARANCE OF RECOMMENDATIONS
8 AWARD CONTRACT
9 CONSTRUCTION 25 % COMPLETE                            X
10 CONSTRUCTION 50 % COMPiLETE
11 CONSTRUCTION 75 % COMPLETE
12 CONSTRUCTION 100 % COMPLETE
METHOD OF PROCUREMENT
IC B -INTERNATIONAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING
LCB - LOCAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING
PS - PRUDENT SHOPPING
NEG - NEGOTIATION



FORM NO.1933
(1-83)
PROCUREJ ENT SCHEDUE FOR EOUIP?ENT AND MTERLALS
COUNTRY : INDIA                                                                                                     PROJECT: AGRICULTURE HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
1) AGPEULTURAL UNIVEFtSITY
DESCRFrr*4 CF rEM       METHaD   EST.
AND                CF      COr   19 9 4              1 9 9 5                           1 9 9 6                            1 9 9 7                     1 9 9 B                 1  9  9 9
OUANTrY             P.C   RS. (M) SOIN ID J |FIM AMJJ             AISONDJ  |F IM A IM|J IJ A SION ID  J  F M                 IMA J IJ IA S O  INID J    AF M IM  J J AS1OIN ID J F  M |A
Package 1:
Scienti  Equipments         KS lpre    11.38  1 2     3     14   5  1 6/7 8I ,I_  1                     I      I    I     I              I I          I
Package 2:
Audio-visual Ads Equipment   KCSlPm    8.872  1 2 _  3        4   5   6/7 81             11         + 1           + 1       T    I T 1   1              11                  1::
Packageg 3 :
Corrputer Systm Allied Eqpts  ICB'P   10.753 1 2    3 ;    4   5   6/718    _         _ 11 1 
Package 4:-
Tractors                    LCD/Post,       1 __         1  14   5.        13 _  _       11
Package 5:
Air-conditjoners            LCB/Post      I.,            1   4   5         a             Ill1
package 6 :                                                                                I
PowvrSupplmsUm-4infarmupted  LLCBPost   1.7451  - -       1  4  I 5         8      i _ [                  I'I 
2I  GODVERNENT DEPARThENTS                                                                                                                                                                          |
DESCRIPTIONCFnEM        M                                                                                                        1ETH9D ESr.
AND                CF      o0      1 9 9 4           1  9 9 5                          1 9 9 6                            1 9 9 7                     1 9 9 8                1 19  9 9
QUANTrTY          I PROC   RS. (M) S O         IJ D F IMA MIJ IJ   A IS 0 INiD !J ;F iM IA'MIJ J !AISOINID  J  F  IM 1A   IJ IJ !A SIO  NIDIJ IF  MIAIM|J 'J A iS OIN 0D !J IF IM |A
Packagel                                          II
Audio-visual Aids Equipment   ocaPre    0.491  1 2       3  141 Is    6/718 1         111i  I                                                     I i
Package 2:I 09                                               -                          i
Equpmnt                    IC "'re       1.04  1 2        L3 J4    516/7 81              l _   II
Packgge                                         I 3                                                                                      . 
Computer System Allied Eqpts. LCE'Post     4   ,               ,1' 41                     1         5'     8.     11                                 , i
Package 4
R  orapics                 ILCB/Post    2.62 _                                   8 4ll
Package 7 :                                                                                             I 
Office Equiprment           ____        2.15                                           1lj      4   5~  8 lLI 
rt P 1
;5 X
Page I 



POW  NHlt=
(1-53)
POCUR SCwEDL POAR EPW TAN MTElLS
COUM MP:    AGRICUTURE HUMAN RWCM  EVELO
1) ANDHRA PRADESH AGICLURE~ UN*fSIT'   HYDERBIADM         ________
DESCRFT4N CF ITE        METHOD   EST.
AND                CF        RT    1 9 9 4           1 9 9 5                 _         1 9 9 6                            1 9 9 7                     1 9 9 8                 1  9  9 9
OLTATrrY            PRQ   R  .3  S O  N D J F M4A M JJ   A S O  N D J  F  MA  M  UJ JA SON J    I                        A M M IJ J |AISO 0NID J IF  M A IM IJ IJ ASO IN ID     F  MA
Tecwa and Equimet           ICW          7.361 1 2 _    3   4 _5 _16/7 8                    11  _
Packae 2: 
Ofic EqLupmet               IC          1.485  1 21      3   44   5  16/7 8                Il
Package 3:
Scientific Equipment        LCB/Post   5.871            Il 1   4                 _  56 8    11|
Padckag4:                                      ---578                                                                                                          -
Refrigeating (Cooling) Eqpt   LCB/Post   1.706      _    1  4   5          l           _I
Ot Vc Equipment             LCB/Post   3.885             1 114   5                              4!8  I   _  11
Stiudnt menioniies          LCPost    1.561              1  _    4     31                   Ii 4F                         !         j
Pacag 7:
ScieiitflcEquipment         K  'pre,   37.1761 14. 21        1111II14 56    I                                          I11                                     
RFrigemting (Cooling) Eqpt.LCBPrt         4-8            3        1 1                                       8                        4  56 7  -                   I                     K  I
Packap 9:                                                                                -
1awnr  rd0: nclEpt      r(r          6.18111 i      13      --.-                                 se 1I        I,      6  7i                                                               I1
Fishi and Prawn Production Eqip. icapr-u   1  1 2        3                                      4       F5F6I 7,F 8 
Package I11                                                      1~                                           IIV i'v; j                                                     JI
T,ucpDm and Equipment        C'Pre                       3 xtis                    1 1 21  1111 1 4   5 1678   I          i1 1
Package  12:               L.....,..,e   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _                                             I'!           L                     ~                      _ _ _ _       I      il 
Package 13:                          -         -                                     1                678           ,       1;      F____
Cweral Equipmnt             IC /PrO       1.5 i2         31'    4- II 516'                                                 114       
Packae 14                                                3        -                        5         7      '                         P                    
Scientific Equipment        LCB/Post   5.46 1                                         Ii    4_ 45           9  I I__I
Package 15:
Refrigerating (Cooling) Eqpt.  LCD/Post    2.9__Ii                                              4   5       81 I1 I_ I
Package 16
Farm Implemewnts & Farm Eqp~t LCD/Post    4.81            II III                                4   5                      11III IlI                                                            
Printing Equipmnt for Textiles LCB/Post   0.54   5-is 
Package 18:
.Generators                 LCD/Post    3.2                              I__4   5FF                                                                                                  LF
Page 2



FOFMa NO.19333
(1.83)
PROCUREIEKWNT SCHEDULE FOR EQUJPUEfT AND MATERIALS
COUNTRY :NOIA                                                                                                    PROJECT: AGRICULTURE HUMAN RE-SOURCES DEVLOPMENT
1) ANDHRIA PRADESH AGRZTULtE UNIVERSITY, HYDERABAD     _ _ _ _ _ ___ _ _ _ _ _
DESCFWTIO OF rTEM      MvETHOD   EST.
AND                CF     COS    1 9 94            19 95                            1 9 96                            1 99 7                     19 98                  1  99  9
OUANMrY      _         PR.   RS. (M) SNJIFIM AIMIJIJ   AISIO  N D              F IM A MJ JAISJOINIDJ  IF  MAIM J   JJASI                 NID JIF IM AIMIJIJ A S N  DJ  F  M  A
Package 19 :
Audio-visual Equpment      LCB/Post    1.66   _ __                                     1    41  5            8         1
PackAge 20:
Computers                  LCB/Post   5.318                                            1    41  5      8           __  11 
Package 21 :                                                                   IL                                                                                 
Office Equipment           LCB/Post    0.31                                            1   4     5      811 jI
Package 22:-                                                                                                        _       1I
Scientific Equipf et       ICB'Pr     20.09         -I1 2                                                            3     4   56 7 8l 
Package 23:II3                                                                                                             4       ____            _Il I
Farm rmpIemets &Farm Eqpt.K-B/Pre         9                                                               1 2              4    56 7 8__
Package 24                I        tf~'                                                   II
Computers                 t ar' e-7.346i-4 --  7______                                                                                                1
Package 25:
Autoclaves                LCB/Post    0.66   I    I                                                     .....J....  1~ '4    5         8
P~ackage 26:                       1                                          
Analytical Equiprment      LCB/Post~     .   129: 1                                                                I,      4i   5 
Packae 27:                                 IIII                                                 '                                                                                      i
Refrigerating (Cooling) Eqpt   LCB_Post   0.865                                                     I       I      'i      4'   5!    8
Farm Iplements Farm Eqipt  iCB P1145  80'7952iI 4 
Pack~age 29:                               jI      1r'Ii
Computers                  LCB,/Post   5.669   I            ______4_____________a,                                                                __
PackageaO 30.
Otfice Equipment          L1CB/PostC  3.215:                            .                                           1 -4    5          81
Package31                                                                                                                        s     , 
Package 32:                                 -                     1       I-                                                                          1
Fish & Prawn Pdts. Equpt   CO/Pre         11 H'IL                                                                                I'   123' 4                   167 811
Package 33:t                                     I
iRefrigrated (Cooling) Eqpt. 1/r      4.6391                                                                                         - U  I    12L               671 41  5  81 j
Page 3



FORM NO.1933
(1-83)
PROCURENT s CHEDULE FOR EOUIPINT AND MATERALS
COUNTRY  INDIA                                                                                                 PROJECT: AGRICLTURE HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
2) ANDRA PRADESH GOVEFNV ENT DEPARTMENTS
DESCRPTDN OF nrEM      METHOD   EST.
AND               CF        T   1 9 9 4           1 9 9 5                          1 9 9 6                          1 9 9 7                   1 9 9 8                1 9  9 9
OUANTrrY           PA=    RS. (M) S ON DJFMAMJJ   ASO                      J  F                          JF  M  A IM |J |J |A s     NID J F M A MIJ J_A IS o N D J F  M  A
Package I 1
CofrrpuJtr and AHied Eq4jipmawnt ICBWPre  6.5 1 2     3   4   5   6/7 8                1 1
Package   2 :_                                                                                                      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
lOffice Equipmen~t        ILCB/Post j    4P2           1   4                                   41
Page 4



FOFAM NO.1933
(1.83)
PROCURFEMENT SCHEDULE F-OR EOtIPIENT AND MATERLALS
COUJNTRY :INDIA
LBMLAAI.                                                                                                                PROJECT: AGRICULTURtE HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPM~ENT
1) TAML NADU AGRKIXTLTRE UNIVERSITY, COIMBATORE             _______________________
DESCRITION CF ITEM       M~ETHOD)   EST.
AND                 a:   COT  1 9 94                   1 9 95    _1 9 96                                           _1 9 97                                 1998a                    1 99 9
OUANTrrY             PRO, RS  M                  J 9SFNMJF AIMJIJ    A SO0NODJ  IFM AIM J J  A ISO1N IDJ  IF  MA IMIJ JJAIS.0N ID JIF IMIA IM  JJA ISOI01NDJFMA
Package 1 :I                                                                                                        III                                                                    
Scientific Ecptr.. - Group A  ICB'Pre    12.67  1 2        31  4.   5  16/7 8                  1
Package 2 :
Computers                   ICB/Pre    23.225 12 _    3 114   51 6/7 8              _--        1 1                           -- ----                                                       
Package 3 :
Computer Printers            LCB/Post    5.95  1___        1  14    51        8                1 1
Packsge 4 :
Equiptnent                   LCD/Post      4.9 1 1         1   4    5~    8         ---        11-                                 ---
PackageS5:
ScienhiflEqpt -Group B       IcB'Pre     31.67  1 2        3                                       4    5167~ 8                 i
Package 6:                                                               I                                                                                          -- 
Laboraory Equipmenrt        lcD/Pro       8.94 12 ~   3                                           I41   167   8
Hospital Equip-me            LCB/Post     2.36                                                     4         ,78
Package 8: 
Audio-visala Equipment       LCD/Post     1.65                                                                                                                                                                U3 167~8  l
Offie Equipmnt               LCD/ost   0.775                                      II4    511'181                                    
Packag  10:                                                                                                                                                     
,Scientific Ecp~t - Group C  ECa/PTe     1778Bj                                               1' j. 2...    3 1    4    5 S6;78 ;    - '                             -
1) TAML NADtJ VETERHARY AND ANUAL SCIENCES UNIVERSrrY _____________________
DESRITION OF tEM         METH       EST.
AND                 a:      COT    1 99 4             1 9 95                              1 9 96                   _1 997                           __         19 98   __99
OUANTITY             P,M    AtS. (MS SO N ID J FI MA M J J   A ISO  INID  J  F_ M  A MIJ IJ A S JIID  J   F  IM A IM J J AISO1 NIDIJ JF  M A IM I J JAISO1 N   I                           
Pacdag  1 :                                                                                                                                                                             I____  __  Ip-J
Scientific Equipmevnt        r-lCDPr     14.38  1 2~  3         4   5  16/7 81                  11
Package 2 :
Hospital Equipffent          icD/ror      12.7  1 21   3        4    5   6/7 8   1             1 1
Fzishteries Equipment       Ice/Pro       5.56  1 2~  1 3                                          4   56 7~ 8           1 1 
Corrpter and Allied Equipment C'r        15.95  12         3   4    5   6/7 811-1-
Page 5



FO0 NO.1933
(1.83)
PROCUT SCHDw FR ECOUJT AND MTEALS
COUNTRY:  A                                                                                                          PROECT: AGfCULTUF1E  UMN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENV
3) TAL NA   DEPARTMENTS
DESCRON CF frEM          HOED     ESr.
AND                CF      CCSr   1 9 9 4            1 9 9 5                           1 9 9 6                            1 9 9 7                     1     9 9 a             1  9  9 9
CUANTrrY            PROC    RS. (M) S ON D J FM AM J J   A SIO  NID J  F  M A MJ J A ISONID  J IF  M                            |ANJ  IJA SO  ND J IF IMA MIJ J A ISIIN ID J         MF MA
PackageI :
Conster and Alied Equipment LCB/Post        2            1      4 15          8          11      I III            IIIII                                    I   I  I
Package 2:                                               1      4 11         11          1
DTPEquipment                LCB/Post      1.3            1      4    5        8          11
Package 3:I
Office Equipment            LCB/Post      2.5 __  _          1  4 5
,Audio-visual Equjipment    LCB/Post    2.98 -                                                        
PROCURE11ENT SCHEIXE FOR EQUIWENT AND MATERIALS
| CAR                                                                                                                PROJECT AGRICULTURE HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
1) ICAR                     ___
DESCRFrON CF rTEM       METHOD   EST.
AND                  F     CF CTI 1 9 9 4j           1 9 9 5                1          1 9 9 6                            1 9 9 7                     1 9 9 8                1  9  9 9
OUANTITY            PROC. I RS. (M) S O N D J IF M A!M J !J   A SO  ND !J 'F  M IA M!J iJ IA S!O!NID  J  F  M  A 'MJ !J A s   'N D!J F ;MIA iMJ J A                    S10N 'D J 'F UM  A
Package 1:                                     I,                   :                                         
Coriputer Equpt & AccessonesSICB'Pre     6.67  1 2    3         4' '5   6 7181        11___I_,___I_.__I
IPackage  2:1,                                               I             | | .   |             . i I i                      
Network System             EICB/Pre      3.13 1 2:   3          4   5   617!8'       11 1                                                      _             !            I
|Park*age 3:              i''~ 6                                     
Video lnstruction Laboratory  ECBPre             2    3         4   5   617 8        11 _                                                                                                          I
Package 4:
Office Equipment            LCB/Post                                    e-14  5,  81
Package:                              5.1 1 5                                                                48
Computer         t          ICB'lre      7       26 t-- 
Package 6:
Videographtic System        Ca/Pre      3.          2   13 1 l                                        '41   5 6178 B l
Air conditioners            LCa/Post   2. 1                                                  11~LIl  4   5      8        11
Package 8:IE                                                                                                   .rlK                                                                           1
Computer Equiprment         IcB'Pre   113I                                                                                  21 3 4        5~678I SiiijI~
Package 9 :8I                                                                                                                             56
iVideo Instruction Lboratory  KcaWpre               --1                                                                      213       1         7 8 
Page 6



PREQUALIFICATION ACTIONS                             PROCUREMENT ACTIONS
A  INITIATE PREPARATION OF PREQUALIFICATION DOCUMENTS AND    1  INITIATE PREPARATION OF SPECIFICATIONS AND BID DOCUMENTS
EVALUATION CRITERIA
2 TRANSMIT SPECIFICATIONS AND BID DOCUMENTS TO IDA
B TRANSMIT DOCUMENTS AND CRITERIA TO IDA
3 IDA CLEARANCE OF SPECIFICATION AND BID DOCUMENTS
C  IDA CLEARANCE OF DOCUMENTS AND CRITERLA
4 ISSUE INVITATION TO BID
D ISSUE PREQUAUFICATION NOTICE
5 OPEN BIDS
E RECEIPT OF CONTRACTOR PREQUALIFICATION DATA
6 TRANSMIT EVALUATION REPORT AND AWARD
F  TRANSMIT EVAWATION REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS TO IDA  RECOMMENDATIONS TO IDA
G  IDA CLEARANCE OF RECOMMENDATIONS                  7  IDA CLEARANCE OF RECOMMENDATIONS
8 AWARD CONTRACT
9  INITIAL DELIVERY AT SITE                            (Jn
1 0 INTERIM DELIVERIES AT SITE
11 FINAL DELIVERY AT SITE
METHOD OF PROCUREMENT
IC B -INTERNATIONAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING
LCB - LOCAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING
PS - PRUDENT SHOPPING
NEG - NEGOTIATION



INDIA
AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Goods/Equipment ICB/LCB Procurement Packages
Orgmaization                                      Numiber                                           Value
LCB : :::   ::-        (Base Cost in US$
Pri-ReviewR   Post-Review    Tobal    Pre-Review   Post-Revew    Total         ICB        LCB
ICAR                      8             -           8            -             2           2       1,531       353
APAU                     14             -           14           -             19          19     3,845      1,558
AP Departments            1             -            1           -             1            1       203        131
HAU                       3             -           3            -             3           3        969        120             a
Haryana                   2             -           2            -             5           5         48       484
Departments
TNAU                      5             -           5            -             5           5      2,792        625
TNVASU                   4             -            4            -             1            1      1,622        91
TN Departments                   -            -                  -             5           5                  274
Total                  37            -            37                        41          41      11.040    3, 636
rt :
co
rt
w



INDIA
AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Training Plan
T    1 0~{k_| ]D '   Obbc                          -I  *aCelSX   I D_ I   -I  x
PnrUdpsfb                         Objeci,a                          R.aoeeA pn AMtSM010Mndm~
_____I__________ _______jjG)omile~~~~~~~(Doomd)j(m)
ICAR (ED)
Sabbaticals        Sabbatical Fellows      Faculty exposure to conditions/problems in    SAUs                          12 months        20 Year I
from participating     diverse agroclimatic areas.                                                                  40 Year 2
SAUs                   National integration of higher agricultural                                                  60 Year 3
education.                                                                                  80 Year 4
100 Year 5
Study Visits       Staff from ICAR.        Exposure to latest developments in          Various domestic and foreign    3 weeks          I Year 2           10 Year I
NAARM, non-             education technology/systems.              training, educational and                        2 Year 3            15 Year 2
participating SAUs                                                  research institutions                                               5 Year 3
and deemed                                                                                                                                                                 I
universities
Study Visits       ICAR staff              Exposure to infonnatics and networking      Various foreign training,       3 weeks          I Year I
systems                                    educational and research                          I Year 2
institutions
Short-Term         SAU Librarians          Computer applications to library            Domestic training center        I month                             Librarians
Training                                   networking; on-line systems                                                                                     10 Year I
10 Year 2
3 Year 3
Teachers/Scient
25/year
Participation in   Teachers/scientists/ed    Increased interaction with experts in     National and foreign            1-2 weeks        30-40/year          10-15/year
national/inter-    ucational managers in   diverse scientific fields and for knowledge    institutions/conferences
national           non-participating       enhancement.
seminars/con-      SAUs, deemed
ferences           universities and
ICAR.                                                                                                                                                                      >
%OQ
0
1tI



Universities
Study Visits       Vice-Chancellors,       Exposure to manpower needs assessment       Various foreign training,       I month                             4 APAU
Deans, Dept. Heads,    methodologies, institutional mnanagement     educational and research                                            I (in Years 1 &
Senior Professors      and improved educational technology.         institutions                                                        3) TNVASU
Developmnent of inter-institutional linkages                                                                    30 HAU
and collaboration.
Short-Term         Teaching Staff          Exposure to new technology and training     Various Indian and foreign      3 months         20 TNAU             12 APAU
Training                                   methods in agriculture, vet-science,        universities, domestic research                  3 TNVASU           6  TNVASU
fisheries, horticulture and Institutional  institutions, government                                             5  TNAU
Management. Developing professional         departments (primarily in                                           15 HAU
contacts.                                   North America and Europe
and India) and international
agncultural research centers.
Medium- Term       Teaching Staff          Training in new education and teaching      Various Indian, European and    6-12 months      45 TNAU            7 TNAU
Training                                   techniques. Knowledge enhancement.          North American agencies                                             3 TNVASU
Hands-on experience. Production of
teaching aids.
Medium- Term       Post-doctoral staff     Completion of education by provision of     Various universities and        6 months         20 TNAU            4 TNAU                             ao
Education                                  experience and widening of breadth of        national and international
knowledge. Exposure to new ideas.           research institutions
Long-Term          Junior teaching staff    Postgraduate education and experience in    Various Indian and foreign     12-36 months    33 (over 3          4 TNAU
Education                                  research methodology and thesis              universities                                    years)  TNAU
preparation. Training for supervision of
postgraduate students.
~~~~~~~~g__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cQ
(DtD
0



Training           Participants                       Objectives                       Resource Agencies           Duration         Attendance            Attendance
Activity                                                                                                                            (Domestic)            (Foreign)
Seminars and       All university staff   Incrcased interaction with experts in       A wide range of Indian and     1-2 weeks       1M0  HAU            2 TNVASU
Conferences        and state government    vanous disciplinary fields. Experience in  foreign research and                           90   GOH            5 HAU
staff of AO rank and    preparing and presenting scientific papers.    educational institutions.                  83   GOAP           21 GOH
above                  Building confidence. Experience in          government departments and                      108  GOTN          19 GOAP
management and organization of meetings    intemational agencies                           20-30 TNVASU       27 GOTN
Specialized                               and seminars. Knowledge enhancement.                                                       4   TNAU
Short Courses                             Improved management and administration
skills.
Computer           Teaching, Scientific   Skill development in the application of     Institutions in India. North   2-4 weeks       41 TNVASU           2 dunng project
Training           and administrative     computer technology for scientific and      America and Europe
staff; technicians     administrative purposes. Broaden
knowledge of software and its application                                 2 months         20-24 HAU
to management.
3 months        10 HAU                                               Z
6 months        2 HAU
Library            University library     Application of modem technology to          UK and Netherlands              months          I course each      5 (Years I & 3)
Management         staff                  library and information systems                                                             year APAU,         HAU
TNAU,
Local courses arranged         2 weeks         TNVASU
though ICRISAT and CABI
(D XD
0



Training     T     Participants                       Objectives                       Resource Agencies           Duration         Attendance           Attendance
Activity                                                                                                                            (Domestic)            (Foreign)
State
Departments
Short-term         Technology transfer    Updating technology and management          Regional/international         1-3 mos          370 GOH            100 GOH
training--         agents                 techniques                                 technology, research &          (foreign)       415 GOAP            100 GOAP
technology                                                                            production                                      660 GOTN           130 GOTN
updating                                                                              institutions/enterpnses        I mo
(domestic)
Training of        Teaching staff of      Competence enhancement                      Tailor-made training at SAUs    Program over    120 GOH
trainers           state training                                                     or by consultants              4-5 years        144 GOAP
institutes; resource                                                                                              131 GOTN
persons/trainers
Computer skills    Admin and technical    Enhanced computer competence                Local                          As required      100 GOTN
staff of departments
HRD/HRM            Senior managers of     HRD/HRM awareness; practice techniques    Consultants                      Program of       20 GOH
departments                                                                                      short-duration    20 GOAP
sessions        30 GOTN                                               o
'Notes:   Iraining courses to be conducted at institutions other than the home campus or state department agency.
Attendance in number of persons per year.
Number of participants and training activity content and duration will vary as a result of actual training needs assessments.
mD
4-1



151
ANNEX 10
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
IDA          Disbursement I   Cumulative Disbursement
FY    Semester         - (US$ million)-----           Percent
95       II                1.5              1.5         3
96        I                3.4              4.9         8
96       II                3.4              8.3         14
97        I                8.4             16.7         28
97       II                9.4             26.1         44
98       I                 9.4             35.5         60
98       II                5.3             40.8         69
99        I                5.3             46.1         77
99       II                3.6             49.7         84
00        I                3.6             53.3         90
00       II                3.1             56.4         95
01       .I                3.              59.5        100



152



AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
94      199                    l.. IU  I.. _          I ... 1   1   2000      2001      7002        2n
ID.   Name                                                                                        n-i 04l0l03inAn4Ol04   2[lO3lo4llOl3O11021014o o1031041 01102!10    1013104  tl o1 io4c)lc210310n4 IQllIQ o1 1 (101011 04,
1I  VIDAK ROCT  _T _1, NW
Negotiations                                   =.gotition
Board Presentation                                                                          1       -  I ad Presetation
_         Effectiveness                                                                                   * neticess
Completion Date                                                                                                                           i               *            oats
Closing Date                                                                                                                                                    t closing Vat
7    SUPRVEIBI Wi,  REVIEW
Launch 95                                                                                        *       IInc  7si 
Launch 95  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lanh95
9         Supervision 2/95                                                                                    *uperriefon 2/95
13  Supervision  3/95   -  ______________________________________                     4 ~~S.p - i.i   /95 9
Io upe-viion 39periis     1/96
11        Supervision 1/96                                                                                        1 *   s        iIion          F/?1
12        Supervision 2/96                                                               __            |                        Supervision 2/96
13        Supervision 1/97                                                                                                         *  Supervision 1/97
14        Mid-Tenm  Review                                                                                                           K* id-Te-  Revie
15        Supervision 2/97                                                                                                               * supervision 2/97
16        Supervision 1/98                                                                                                                    *  supervision 1/99
17        Supervision 2/98                                                                                                                          *  Supervision 2/99
18        Supervision 1/99                                                                                                                                *  supervision 1/99
19        Supervision 2/99
*Supervision 2/99
20        Supervision ICR/1/00                                                                                                                                    *  supervision ICR/l/O0
21   PROCUREMENT                                                                                                  1                                                                                          I
22   PROJECT IMLNATICi                                                                            _ _    *        | _                                                _
23        PROJECT MANAGEMENT
24        ICAR STR RCTBZ 11lm
25             MOU ICAR/SAU                                                                                mtu ICAR/sao
26             Strengthen ICAR
27             Establish Ag. Ed. Strategy                                                                  Z .stablish Ag. Ed. Strategy
28             Establish Accreditation Board                                                              Z* ssAlih  Maccreditation Board
29             Establish AEC                                                                                                                                              t *  S?abli.h ARC
30             Review Strategy Implementation                                                                el,                                                      Revie  Strat-gy Iaplmntation           1
31             Establish /Enforce Standards                                                                                                                           Establish /Enf-rce Stanadrds
32             Incentive Fellowships                                                                                                                                   In-entiv-  Feilowsips1
Project Agricultural Human Resources Development Project             a                              P
Date: 3Y3Y95                                                 | Noncriical                           Milestone                          Rolled Up                                0
_________________                                                                                                           __________           _______-1-a
Page 1 S



AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ID   Name                                                                                     94  lo 101 eez104   1 ees IA~lolo31e7lo4  12030~10130~1 QQ21o1)ee   | ( 4oo    >2lO-l )41OIIC)210- n 4
33    NIwR   ND ASSZTS (MaC*)
34             Major Studies                                          .                                rjor  tudiss                                                  [
35             Supplementary                                                                                                  Surpl.satazy
36             Supplementary                                                                                                        I r
37             Major Studies                                                                                             |dis|
38             Supplementary                                                                       i *        I                                                      e |  i
39        SAD FZiBIEZAL 7ISJUinW   S?t STIYS AND  NATR1X DIWLP ATION                                          | __        _______                            pP      ery
40             SAU Financial Studies
_   SkA  Financial Studies
41             State/ SAU/ ICAR Discussions  & Development of Common Strategy                                |                         SAU/ ICAR  icossioea  & D lo,  -t of coo  Strats5Y
42             Presentation of Common Strategy at MTR                                                         I                                   o  C      j          t
__  _                                                                        s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Presa tation of co_o  Str-t-gy zt mm
43             Agreement on Action Plan                                                                                               A         o    t
__   ____  ___   _ _                 ,                             s  Ai7rn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g~ t on Action Pl n
44             Implementation of  Action Plan                                                                                     I                         =                       A
_    _   _    __          ,        1                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I sp  t.tion of  ALction Plin
45             MVn= SAV PURFOMUW=  (ICAR)
46                  1995
47                  1996                                                                                                      1996
48                  1997                                                        1-
49                  1998                                                                                                                       ,    1n
50                  1999                                                                                                                                       1999
51              IlVNX TY PROGRAllS
52                 Action Matrix Implementation                                                           ,                                                              Atia I.1 -atation
53                  Establish Education Technology Cell                                                       ,     stablish Education S.ohnolovy cell
54                  Identify Core Staff                                                            I                  n           t            I
,   *IdentifY Core St.ff          |                                Ii
55                 Establish Manpower Secretariat                                                  |       stablish Mnpor Secretasiat
56                 Faculty Improvement                                                                                                                           F  lty Iu*ro_t
57                 Library Modernization                                                                                                                                         a
* -t ~~~~~~~~~~~~Lib-ary Msodernization
58                  Infrastructure Development                                                                                                                  Infrntm.eturevaloOsnt
59                 Computerized Management Improvement                                                      .C.o..t.isd ...
60             iN-iERVi  BRD/IR                                                                                                                              willm
61                 Training Plan-Dev./Imp.                                                                =                                                 _-,
_                                                                       r         - j    " u -             -             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tr-i.i.v Pln-V v./I np j
62                 Training of Trainers
63                 HRM Training
64                 Establish New Training Centers                                                  I                               I i                                                                    >
E_tablish 3a  T.aining Cants|e
Project: Agricutural Human Resources Development Prooj         Crcical                          Progress                          Summary  O                                                               (D
Date: S13/                                                     Noncritical                      Milestone *                       Rolled Up O                                                             j
Page 2                                                                                                r



155                   Annex 11
Page 3 of 3
o 
cU  c                                              a:
c0.
'U
z
e1  C
u                         Eo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
o~~~~ ,l ao  O       OU E4                       o
X Ic _    --1---i-,- 1_ 0_  _   .                 i
W _ _ _ _ ._~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i__8__l
C , , ,. ,,1 [ +,,+,.,.,, , ,.,v , ,,..=.,,.,,,, ,,,,,,,, ,,,,,  gj L
X ,C1i1;lx  c 3 H no H nEH t <131.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ X~
1, M :   X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
X % X,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



156



157                            Annex 12
Page 1 of 7
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Supervision and Monitorable Indicators
Supervision Plan
Year 1
1.    Launch. IDA supervision missions would be mounted twice each year, except in the
first year when there would be an additional mission to provide assistance in the critical start-
up phase. The launch mission would help project authorities to plan initial implementation
activities, including budgeting, procurement of goods and services, project coordination and
project reporting. The IDA team would consist of a planning and management specialist,
budgeting and procurement expert, and education and training/HRD specialist.
2.    First Semester. The IDA mission should review annual implementation plans and
funding provisions, funding for carryover activities, procurement and civil works plan, action
plans for implementation of matrices, manpower studies, in-service HRD/HRM, in-service
training and M&E. The mission should include a planning and management specialist,
education and training specialist and procurement and accounts specialist.
3.    Second Semester. The mission should review project implementation, execution of
action matricies, status of accounts, problems and new issues. It would review both
quantitative and qualitative aspects and impact. Mission staffing should be the same as in the
first semester.
Year 2
4.    First and second missions would address the same issues as in Year 1. No major
manpower studies would be anticipated in Year 2, but related activities should focus on the
development and implementation of an action plan flowing from Year I manpower studies.
Progress on ancillary manpower studies would be reviewed. Mission staffing should be the
same as in Year 1. A specialist in environmental education would be included on the second
mission to: (a) revicw SAU environmental curricula and development departmental
environrnental training programs, and (b) make recommendations about
improvements/enhancerrevis.
Year 3
5.    Mid-Term Review. A mid-term review is expected before December 31, 1997.
Experts from the Swiss-financed Panel would provide background studies of implementation
progress which would form the basis for MTR discussions. The common strategy developed



158                             Annex 12
Page 2 of 7
by the participating states, SAUs and ICAR to address education-related financial
management issues at the SAUs would be discussed and an action plan for implementation
agreed.
6.    Two Supervision Missions. Mission activities would be the same as in previous
years except that they would focus on the implementation of mid-course corrections to project
design and execution as agreed at the MTR. They would also review plans for the second set
of major manpower studies expected in Year 3 and would promote their implementation. In
addition, the missions would review the progress in implementing the agreed action plans
related to SAU financial management. Staffing would be the same as in previous years.
Involvement by an environmental specialist would be continued.
Years 4 and 5
7.    Two Supervision Missions Per Year. Mission activities would be the same as in
previous years except that they should focus on sustainability issues and arrangements for the
ICR. Staffing would be the same as in previous years.
Gauging Project Progress--Monitoring
8.    The ultimate goal of the project would be to improve agricultural performance by
introducing institutional and managerial changes in manpower development and use. This
goal would likely be realized well beyond the project's life. The project, however, would
start long-term, broad-based HRD initiatives meant to launch a process of behavioral and
institutional reform. During project implementation, two principal sets of indicators would be
monitored: commitments and behavioral changes. Commitments of institutions and
governments to HRD would be gauged by appointments of sound personnel, conducting of
studies, allocations of resources, strengthening of agencies (structural apparatus), instituting of
reforms and investments. Behavioral changes would be assessed by how well reforms are
being implemented and incorporated into the management culture of each implementing
agency. Project implementation progress would be monitored regularly by the PMIC in each
of the states and the Education Planning and Development Section of ICAR(ED). In addition,
ICAR would organize specific evaluation studies using specialists to assess the effectiveness
of the policy and management changes supported under the project and their effectiveness for
application to other states and universities in India. The project would provide funding
support for these evaluation studies. The Panel of Experts (Annex 5) would offer periodic,
in-depth evaluation of ICAR and SAU efforts to carry out project reforms.
9.    Long-term. A number of institutional and cultural changes are expected to take place
as a result of project-supported activities. There are three main stages in project
implementation which offer opportunities to gauge progress:



159                             Annex 12
Page 3 of 7
(a)    The first relates to policy change. If agreed progress cannot be made until a
policy is formulated, promulgated or amended, the announcement of the new
policy or the formal amendment of an inappropriate policy is an indicator of
institutional commitment to policy change;
(b)   The second relates to institutional commitment. It involves the creation of new
structural units or the strengthening of existing ones, appointment of staff of
agreed rank, qualifications and experience and provision of agreed levels of
financial support in a timely manner.
(c)    The third reflects measurable changes in managerial and institutional behavior.
For example, is an HRD cell active in carrying out needs assessments on a
regular basis, are trainees selected based on training needs, are managers
matching job demands with staff skills, are transfers less frequent, are trained
staff judged to be more effective on the job? These are difficult to measure;
they represent a composite of many managers' actions which defy quantifying
or dating with precision. However, judgments can be made based on evidence
of individual manager's behavior over time to give some confidence about the
direction of institutional change.
10.   Short-term. While success in HRD initiatives are difficult to assess and their
economic benefit is be realized only in the long-term, the following indicators are offered for
tracking as gauges of project implementation success:
Academic Improvement--ICAR(ED) Strengthening
(a)    Reorganization of ICAR(ED)
(i)    Setting-up the Accreditation Board.
(ii)   Establishment of the Monitoring Unit, the Education Planning and
Development Section and Education Technical Division.
(iii)   Steps to establish AEC.
(b)   Educational Standards
(i)    Production of norms for evaluation, examinations, selection of
sabbatical candidates and sabbatical leave.
(ii)   Work plans for the counselling and job-placement centers.
(c) Educational Support
(i)    Level of scholarship funding.
(d) Support for ICAR



160                                 Annex 12
Page 4 of 7
(i)    Identification and recruitment of incremental staff (ICAR and DARE).
(ii)    Purchase of office equipment and computers.
(iii)   Establishment of library and information exchange linkages.
Academic Improvement--University Programs
(a)    Improving Faculty
(i)    Production of annual training plan.
(ii)    Selection of staff for training.
(iii)   Dispatch of staff for training (domestic and foreign).
(iv)   Identification of training sources and placement of students.
(v)    Introduction of curriculum reforms.
(vi)   Identification of external specialists as visiting lecturers.
(vii)   Despatch and receipt of sabbatical fellows.
(b)    Improving Teaching Courses
(i)    Application of ICAR norms for the selection of students for
undergraduate and postgraduate studies.
(ii)    Application of norms and standards for examinations.
(iii)   Application of norms for teacher and student assessment.
(iv)   Introduction of commerce-oriented courses.
(v)    Identification of full-time core teaching staff.
(vi)   Selection of staff for management training.
(vii)   Application of ICAR norms for sabbatical leave.
(viii)  Setting up procedures to enable staff consultancies.
(c)    Improving Facilities
(i)    Preparation of equipment procurement documents.
(ii)    Procurement of equipment.
(iii)   Preparation ol civil works procurement documents.
(iv)   Procurement of civil works.
(v)    Establishlciil ot instrumenlation cells.
(vi)   Installation ot coMpLuter-based library management systems.
(vii)   Establishinu nt of student counselling and job-placement centers.
(viiii) Establishnmcni Of Ce.ucailon >cchnology development cells.
(ix)   Improvernents in contacls wlith foreign educational institutions.
(d)    Improving Management
(i)    Introduction of coMputer-based accounting systems.
(ii)   Introduction of computer--based record keeping.



]II                               Annex 12
Page 5 of 7
(iii)  Installation of MIS.
(e)    Clientele Involvement
(i)    Expansion of SAU Boards of Management to include greater private
representation.
(ii)   Establishing and convening of private consultative groups.
(iii)   Establishing and convening of state project committee.
(iv)   Associating private representatives on MACs.
(v)   Student attachments in agroindustries.
(f)    Higher Agricultural Education Financial Management
(i)    Earmarking funds for O&M and other recurrent costs, and making these
the first charge on budgetary resources.
(ii)   Undertaking of financial management studies in Year 1.
(iii)   Meeting of state, SAU and ICAR officials to develop a common
strategy to university financing, based on state study recommendations.
(iv)   Presentation of common strategy at MTR and agreement on an action
plan for implementation.
(v)   Implementation of agreed action plan.
(g)   Construction
(i)    Preparation of remaining architectural designs for buildings.
(ii)   Construction progress updates.
Human Resource Management--State HRD/HRM Activities
(a)    State Coordination/Planning and Project Funding
(i)    Preparation of State Implementation Plans.
(ii)   Annual budgets planned and sanctioned with agency/activity-specific
itemization.
(iii)   Setting up and staffing the PMIC.
(iv)   Procurement of equipment for the PMIC.
(b)   Staff Training
(i)   Identification of institutions for providing local and foreign
training.
(ii)   Preparation of state training plans.
(iii)  Identification of staff for training.
(iv)   Deputations for training.



Annex 12
162                               Page 6 of 7
(c)    Training Institutions
(i)    Designing the remaining construction and building renovation.
(ii)   Selection and appointment of incremental staff.
(d)   HRD/HRM
(i)    Setting up departmental HRD cells.
(ii)   Appointment of HRD staff for planning and implementing HRD
activities within development departments.
(iii)   Employment of an HRD specialist for PMIC.
(iv)   Preparation of work plans for training of trainers, and human resource
management.
Human Resource Management--Manpower Studies
(i)    Establishment of the State Manpower Advisory Council.
(ii)   Establishment of a secretariat for MAC.
(iii)   Meetings of the MAC and results/decisions taken.
(iv)   Identification of consultants and TORs for manpower studies.
(v)   Designing studies and surveys for manpower studies.
(vi)   Contracting for manpower studies.
(vii)  Conduct of manpower studies.
(viii)  MAC discussion of manpower study results.
(ix)   Publication of manpower study results.
(x)   MAC recommendations to the state government and SAU(s) based on
manpower study results.
Procurement Progress
(i)    Contracts and Physical Progress
-  Tender Document Preparation for Works and Goods
-  Tendering and Contract Awards
-  Physical Progress by Contract Compared to Contract Timetable
(ii)   Consultant Recruitment and Work Progress
-  Terms-of-Reference
-  Short Lists
-  Requests for Proposals
-  Contract Awards
-  Consultant Activity Progress
-  Consultant Reports



163                               Annex 12
Page 7 of 7
(iii)  Training
-   Number of persons trained/in training during previous six-month
period by type of training
-  Training compared to six-month plan
-   Six-month training plan with types of training and number of
persons to be trained



164



165
Annex 13
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Documents in Project File
1.    Agency for International Development, Universities for Development: Report of the
Joint Indo-U.S. Impact Evaluation of the Indian Agricultural Universities, Project
Impact Evaluation Report No. 68, Washington, September 1988.
2.    Bhatia, Raj, Agricultural Human Resources Development Project--Computer
Services, May 27, 1994.
3.    DHV Consultants BV, Agricultural Human Resources Development Project:
Action Plans, 4 vols, the Netherlands, September 1993.
4.    Government of Andhra Pradesh, Agricultural Human Resources Development
Project, 2 vols, Hyderabad, April 1994.
5.    Government of Tamil Nadu, Project for Agricultural Human Resource
Development in Tamil Nadu, Madras, February 1994.
6.    Haryana Agricultural University, Agricultural Human Resources Development
Project--Project Outline, Hisar, January 1994.
7.    Hutchinson, Barbara, Library Modernization Component, An Assessment of the
State Agricultural University System in India: Recommendations and Long-Term
Plans, Tucson, March 1994.
8.    Indian Council of Agricultural Research (Education Division), Project Proposal on
Human Resource Development in Agricultural Education, New Delhi, March 1994.
9.    Middleton, John, Ziderman, Adrian and Adams, Arvil Van, Skills for Productivity:
Vocational Education and Training in Developing Countries, Oxford University
Press, New York, 1993.
10.   Panel of Experts, Terms of Reference, June 1994.
11.   Pritchard, Anthony, University Investments, An Explanatory Note, June 1994.
12.   Ryan, Peter, Academic Institution Accreditation Study, State Agricultural
Universities, India, Australia, September 1993.



166                                   Annex 13
Pa~ge2 ~of 2
13.              , Strengthening and Enhancement of the Education Division of the
Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Delhi, June 1994.
14.   World Bank, World Bank Assistance to Agricultural Higher Education 1964-1990,
Report No. 10751, Washington, June 18, 1992.
15.   Detailed Project Cost Tables.
Training Programs
1.   ICAR, Proposals for Training Programs, September 1994.
2.    APAU, Proposals for Training Programmes, September 1994.
3.    GOAP, Training Plan for Master Trainers, September 1994.
4.    HAU, List of Faculty Members to be Deputed for Training, September 1994.
5.    Haryana State Departments, Domestic Training Schedule, September 1994.
6.                              , Foreign Training Schedule, September 1994.
7.    TNAU, Training Components, September 1994.
8.    TNVASU, Specialized Training, September 1994.
9.    GOTN. Training Component, September 1994.



