Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2699 IN
                       Development Credit Agreement
            (Agricultural Human Resources Development Project)
                                  between
                                   INDIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                           Dated April 11, 1995
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2699 IN
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 11, 1995, between INDIA, acting by
its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) The Association has received a letter dated
February 27, 1995 from the Indian Council of Agricultural
Research (hereinafter ICAR), endorsed by the Borrower,
attaching a statement of agricultural education strategy that
constitutes the framework for improving higher agricultural
education in India, including policy, institutional and
curricula reforms (hereinafter called ICAR Agricultural
Education Strategy), and declaring ICAR's commitment to carry
out such Strategy;
      (B)   the Association has received letters dated February
27, 1995 from Andhra Pradesh, Haryana and Tamil Nadu
(hereinafter the Project States), attaching a statement for the
future development of their State Agricultural Universities
participating in the Project (hereinafter called SAUs) that
constitute the framework for improving higher agricultural
education in such Project States, including policy,
institutional and curricula reforms (hereinafter called SAU
Page  2
Policy Statement), and declaring the Project States' commitment
to carry out such policy reforms;
      (C)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the Project;
      (D)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by the
Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and Parts B, C
and D of the Project will be carried out by the States of
Andhra Pradesh, Haryana and Tamil Nadu (the Project States)
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to ICAR and the Project States
the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and
in each of the Project Agreements of even date herewith between
the Association and ICAR, and the Association and the Project
States, respectively;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (b)   "Project States" means the States of Andhra Pradesh,
Haryana and Tamil Nadu of the Borrower, and the term "State"
means any of those States;
      (c)   "ICAR" means Indian Council of Agricultural Research,
a society registered under the Societies Registration Act,
1860;
      (d)   "Rules" means the Rules and Bye Laws of ICAR dated
April 3, 1975 as amended to date;
      (e)   "ICAR Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and ICAR of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (f)   "The States Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and Project States of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
States Agreement;
      (g)   "SAU" means the State Agricultural Universities
participating in the Project and comprising Andhra Pradesh
Agricultural University, Haryana Agricultural University, Tamil
Nadu Agricultural University and Tamil Nadu Veterinary and
Animal Sciences University; and
      (h)   "DARE" means Department of Agricultural Research and
Education of the Ministry of Agriculture.
Page  3
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to forty million five hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 40,500,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each
year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and September
15 commencing September 15, 2005 and ending March 15, 2030.
Each installment to and including the installment payable on
March 15, 2015 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of
Page  4
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement, shall cause (i) DARE to
coordinate the overall implementation of the Project, and (ii)
ICAR and the Project States to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the ICAR Agreement and the States Agreement all
the obligations of ICAR and the Project States therein set
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ICAR and the
Project States to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to ICAR and the Project States in accordance with the
Borrower's standard arrangements for developmental assistance
to the central agencies and the States of India.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby
agree that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04,
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
Page  5
respectively) in respect of the Project shall be carried out by
ICAR and the Project States pursuant to Section 2.03 of each of
the ICAR Agreement and the States Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to
which withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in
                  accordance with sound accounting practices,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
            (ii)  ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                  at least one year after the Association has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                  Account was made; and
           (iii)  enable the Association's representatives
                  to examine such records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as
                  available, but in any case not later than nine
                  months after the end of each such year the
                  report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested, including a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to whether
                  the statements of expenditure submitted during
                  such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                  and internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals; and
           (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                  information concerning said records and
                  accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   ICAR or any of the Project States shall have failed
to perform any of its obligations under the ICAR Agreement or
the States Agreement, respectively.
      (b)   An event has occurred which shall make it improbable
that ICAR Agricultural Education Strategy or SAUs Policy
Statement, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
Page  6
      (c)   The Rules shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of ICAR to perform any of its obligations
under the ICAR Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that any event specified in Section 5.01 (a) or (b) of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, that:
      (a)   The ICAR Agreement and the States Agreement have been
duly authorized or ratified by ICAR and the Project States,
respectively, and are legally binding upon ICAR and the Project
States in accordance with their terms.
      (b)   The Accreditation Board referred to in para 2(i) of
the Schedule to the ICAR Agreement has been established.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary, or Under Secretary of
the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            The Secretary to the Government of India
            Department of Economic Affairs
            Ministry of Finance
            New Delhi, PIN 110001
            India
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  ECOFAIRS                  953-3166175
                  New Delhi
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
Page  7
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                  INDIA
                  By /s/ K. Sibal
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ H. Vergin
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                               South Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                Amount of the
                              Credit Allocated         % of
                               (Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                       SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                  6,000,000        75%
(2) Goods                       13,700,000        100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures,
                                                  100% of local
                                                  expenditures
                                                  (ex-factory
                                                  cost) and 80%
                                                  of local
                                                  expenditures for
                                                  other items
                                                  procured locally
(3) Training,                   14,300,000        100%
    consultants'
    services and
    studies
(4) Incremental staff            6,500,000        90% until
    salaries and                                  December 31, 1997,
    incremental                                   70% until December
    operation and                                 31, 1999, and
    maintenance                                   50% thereafter
    costs
                                __________
        TOTAL                   40,500,000
                                ==========
Page  8
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
    (c)   the term "incremental operation and maintenance costs"
means operations and maintenance costs of additional vehicles
and equipment incurred under the Project on or after November
1, 1994; and "incremental staff salaries" means salaries in
respect of posts created for the Project on or after November
1, 1994.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 1,000,000
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before
that date but after August 22, 1994.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures for: (a) goods and works under contracts not
exceeding $200,000 equivalent, except for the first three
contracts of each civil works and goods for ICAR, each of the
SAUs, and each of the Project States; (b) services under
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for employment of
consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent for employment of
individual consultants respectively; (c) training and
fellowships; (d) works procured under force account; and (e)
incremental salaries and incremental operational and
maintenance costs, all under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist in (i) improving
the quality and relevance of higher agricultural education and
in-service training programs; and (ii) strengthening the
capacity of the Project States to develop and manage
agricultural human resources.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   ICAR Strengthening
    Strengthening ICAR's capacity to set, enforce and monitor
compliance with norms and standards for agricultural education
in India through (i) reorganization of ICAR's Education
Division, and (ii) the provision of equipment, consultants'
services, construction of new office facilities, information
systems, and related studies.
Part B:   Project Universities
    Improving the quality of higher agricultural education
through the provision of equipment for teaching programs, staff
training, fellowships, faculty exchanges, library
modernization, computerization, consultants' services, studies
and civil works.
Page  9
Part C:   In-Service Human Resources Development and Management
          (i)   Improving the effectiveness of State agricultural
                employees by increasing the capacity of each
                state to carry out systematic Human Resource
                Development through the provision of consultants'
                services, training, equipment; and establishment
                and renovation of training centers;
          (ii)  establishing a Human Resource Management approach
                to the direction and supervision of staff of the
                participating departments through the provision
                of consultants' services and training; and
         (iii)  carrying out of studies of higher
                agricultural education financial
                management.
Part D:   Manpower Needs Assessment
    Establishment of a broad-based Manpower Advisory Council in
each of the Project States for sponsoring studies for providing
data on agricultural manpower requirements and trends.
                               *     *     *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract. The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior
review in accordance with the provisions of Part D 1(b) of this
Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required for (i) a
first extension of the bid validity period if the period of
extension exceeds sixty (60) days, and (ii) any subsequent
extension of the bid validity period.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with Part A,
ICAR and the Project States shall use the relevant standard
bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary
for the purpose of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, ICAR and the
Project States shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
Page  10
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in
India may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Except as provided in paragraph 2 hereof, civil works may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.  Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding
$1,700,000 equivalent, may be carried out by force account in
a manner satisfactory to the Association.
3.  Materials and equipment, including maintenance equipment,
estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than $200,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $3,900,000
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.  (i) Equipment and materials (other than construction
materials) estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than
$25,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding
$6,100,000 equivalent, (ii) vehicles estimated to cost the
equivalent of not more than $100,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not exceeding $1,500,000 equivalent, and (iii)
construction materials estimated to cost an amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $900,000 may be procured on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
5.  Books, periodicals, proprietary equipment and software, and
spare parts estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than
$2,200,000 may be directly purchased in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to (i) the first three contracts of each
civil works and goods for ICAR, each of the SAUs, and each of
the States, and (ii) each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of
the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
Page  11
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist in carrying out the Project, ICAR and the
Project States shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultants' Guidelines).
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provision of the Consultants Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each with
consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent each with individual
consultants. However, this exception to prior Association
review shall not apply to the terms of reference for such
contracts, nor to the employment of individuals, to single
source selection of firms, to assignment of critical nature as
reasonably determined by the Association, and to amendments to
contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
more.
3.  For complex, time-based assignments, ICAR and the Project
States shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed
with the Association. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, ICAR shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Association.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
Page  12
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that,
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$3,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of SDR 12,000,000.
2.  (a)  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
    (b)   Each payment (including a payment under a letter of
credit) for an eligible expenditure in an amount equal to or
less than the equivalent of $1,000,000 shall be made
exclusively out of the Special Account.  The Association may
from time to time, by notice to the Borrower, revise the
threshold amount specified in the preceding sentence.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Association shall
have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                such intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
Page  13
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
