Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25255
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-28500)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 18.50 MILLION (US$27.30 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
MALI
FOR THE
SELINGUE POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
December 23, 2002
Energy Group
Infrastructure
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 13, 2002)
Currency Unit = CFA Francs
CFA Franc 1.00 = US$ 0.0015
TJS$ 1.00 = CFAF 646.072
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEDISE        Cellule pour le Developpement Institutionnel du Secteur de l'Electricite
Power Sector Institutional Development Unit
EAP           Environmental Action Plan
EDM           Energie du Mali SA
Energy Company of Mali
EIB           European Investnent Bank
ERR           Economic Rate of Retum
ICB           Intemational Competitive Bidding
kWH           Kilowatt hours
MMEH          Ministere des Mines, de lEnergie et I'Eau
Ministry of Mines, Energy, and Hydrology
MW            Megawatts (1000 kilowatts)
NPV           Net Present Value
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director    A. David Craig
Sector Manager:    M. Ananda Covindassamy
Task Team Leader:    Kwawu Mensan Gaba
Team Assistant:    Lily Wong



MALI
S1LINGUE POWER REHABILITATION PROEJCT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              6
6. Sustainability                                                                   7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   7
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  9
9. Partner Comments                                                                10
10. Additional Infornation                                                        22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             30
Map No. IBRD 32208






Project ID: P034617                                     |Project Name: ML SELINGUE REHAB.
Team Leader: Kwawu Mensan Gaba                           TL Unit: AFTEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 23, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: ML SELINGUE REHAB.                            L/C/TFNumber: IDA-28500
Country/Department: MALI                                               Region: Afiica Regional Office
Sector/subsector: Power (99%); Central goverment administration
(1%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   10/05/i994                            Effective: 08/13/1996         08/13/1996
Appraisal:  05/03/1995                               MTR: 06/30/1998           10/26/1998
Approval:  04/25/1996                             Closing: 06/30/2001         06/30/2002
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVT OF MALI/ELECTRICITE DU MALI (EDM)
Other Partners: EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BANK (EIB)
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                       Edward Jaycox
Country Manager-     David Craig                              Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager:      M. Ananda Covindassatny                  Max Pulgar-Vidal
Team Leader at ICR:  Kwawu Mensan Gaba                        Nadjib Sefta
ICR Primary Author:  Charles Sterling
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactoiy, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance. HS
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        HS
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main objective of the project was to repair and rehabilitate the Selingue facility. Other objectives were
to: (a) maintain the electricity demand-supply balance by increasing, the thermal capacity of the system
and implementing an energy efficiency program; (b) improve the capacity of Energie du Mali (EDM) to
properly operate, maintain, and supervise its power generation facilities; and (c) prepare a long-term
institutional framework and regulatory system for the power sector and implement it by 1999.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The main objective of the project was to repair and rehabilitate the Selingu6 Hydropower Plant Other
objectives were to: (a) maintain the electricity demand-supply balance by increasing the thernal capacity of
the system and inplementing an energy efficiency program; (b) improve EDM capacity to properly operate,
maintain, and supervise its power generation facilities; and (c) prepare a long-term institutional framework
and regulatory system for the power sector and privatize EDM. The attainment of specific development
objectives were monitored during inplementation according to key outcome/impact performance indicators,
as shown in Annex 1.
3.3 Original Components:
Component A: Rehabilitatbng Singu6 Hydropower Facility
(i) Rehabilitation of S6lingue Hydropower Facility, which includes urgent remedial and rehabilitation
works actions for the embankment dam (embankment crest, embankment right bank, and the road
superstructure); the concrete structures such as the powerhouse, the spillway, galleries and drainage
systems; additional drilling and piezometer holes to check the foundation and embankment dam; and the
improvemnent of monitoring devices and instrumentation.
(ii) Power plant which includes repairs of some general powerhouse equipment (measurement and control
devices, filtering and cooling systems) and the overhaul of the four generators (turbines, alternators, voltage
and speed regulation, and monitoring systems).
(iii) Transmission system, which includes a comprehensive restructuring of the electrical protection system
for the 150 kV, 30 kV, and 15 kV system, the procurement of spare parts and maintenance, by Energie du
Mali (EDM), of the Selingue-Bamako transmission 150 kV line and substations, and a feasibility study of a
dispatching center for the interconnected Malian system.
Component B: Maintain the Demand/Supply Balance
(i) Thermal capacity intended to provide an additional capacity of 9 MW needed to maintain the
demand/supply balance and provide back-up capabilities during periods of reduced supply from Selingu6
before the Manantali Regional Energy Project is completed. (ii) Small diesel units of about I MW capacity
each will be added to the interconnected system with the objective to later relocate them to supply small
isolated centers; (iii) the purchase and installation of equipment for reducing distribution network technical
losses; (iv) the identification of existing captive power capacities and negotiation of purchase contracts by
EDM; and (v) the design and promotion of end-use efficiency programs (efficient light bulbs, humidifiers,
interruptible tariffs for the few largest customers, and specific measures for the administrative buildings).
-2 -



Component C: Strengthening EDM's Management Capacity
(i) A specific training program to improve the capacity of EDM staff to operate and properly maintain
generation facilities, specifically at Se1ingue; (ii) studies for preparing future power sector development
programs; and (iii) acquisition of equipment, computer software and other items.
Component D: Long-term Institutional Framework
The objective was to set up a new institutional framework, for a rapid and sustainable development of the
power sector in Mali. The Government would set up a steering committee of two to three members
responsible for organizing a systematic stakeholders consultation, before March 1997. The component
would finance consultant services to analyze in-depth questions, needs, and propositions raised during this
phase, to enable the Government to take decisions on sector reform by mid-1988.
3.4 Revised Components:
Cost (USD)                 Rating
(a) Rehabilitation of Selingue Hydropower Facility  27,300,000              HS
(b) Maintain Demand/Supply Balance              10,600,000                   S
(c) Strengthening EDM's management capacity      2,200,000                  HS
(d) Long-term institutional framework             400,000                   HS
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was excellent. The project objectives were clearly focused on rehabilitating the darm and
building the institutional framework needed to sustain project benefits. The components were designed
expressly to meet those objectives. Precision in devising the implementation schedule and procurement
planning ensured that civil works repairs to the embankments upstream could be carried out before the
rainy season. Meticulous planning likewise ensured that repairs to turbine units were carried out in phases
to avoid periods of peak demand. Project start-up and procurement problems were insignificant.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's main objective was met as originally envisaged. The lake is now filled to capacity and the
inhabitants downstream are secure.
Furthermore, EDM has been privatized. Since privatization, the utility's financial viability has been
restored, and the operation of the system has
significantly improved with the result that EDM has been able to go through a peak season, for the first
time, without load shedding.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Rehabilitation of Selingu6 Hydropower Facility (273 million SAR, 22A actual). The civil works
repairs were completed in 1998. Despite initial delays due to minor procurement-related issues,
implementation of the project's physical components not only took place as planned but also included
-3 -



supplemental works comprising embankment reinforcements and drainage improvements. The costs of
these works remained within and even below the credit allocation because substantial savings were incurred
during the procurement of works, thanks to the international competitive bidding procurement method used.
The civil works repairs provided dam stability allowing for proper water-level measurement, drainage, and
seepage. This enabled the level of the reservoir to be raised to 349 m. Electromechanical repairs were
carried out satisfactorily in phases. Whereas the project's rnain component, comprising the rehabilitation
works, was implemented on schedule and EDM's transmission network was connected to the Manantali
grid in July 2001, energy from the Manantali dam did not become available until early 2002. Therefore, it
was necessary to authorize an extension of the credit closing date by one year to June 30, 2002 in order to
finance finishing works, and use the balance of funds in the credit account for supplemental works.
Consequently, EDM had to continue to rely heavily on thermal power generation, which had a negative
imnpact, financially, on its operations.
Maintain Demand/Supply Balance ( 10.6 million SA3. 6.0 actual. The first 3 MW of thermal capacity
needed urgently to maintain the power supply/demand balance were commissioned as planned in May
1996. The remaining 6 MW were installed according to the schedule at a cost lower than the appraisal
estimate. EIB financed this thermal strengthening program in its entirety. A demand-side management study
was carried out by a consultant under the auspices of the Power Sector Institutional Development Unit
(CEDISE - Cellule pour le Developpement Institutionnel du Secteur de l'Electricite) within the Ministry
of Mines, Energy, and Hydrology (MMEH). The report was issued in April 1998. A main outcome of the
study was to show the benefit of using energy efficient lighting to curb down the peak load. The
recommended distribution of energy efficient lamps to commercial and domestic customers, was never
carried out because of EDM's and its customers' incapacity to bear the extremely high up-front cost of the
lamps. The study's real importance, however, lies in providing the newly privatized EDM with a number of
measures that will help it increase its internal efficiency. During the project period, the energy
demand/supply imbalance intensified beyond expectation because the energy demand grew substantially as
a result of the increased reliability of supply. This situation was further aggravated by the one-year
implementation delay of the Manantali Project, because of the various contractors' difficulty to meet the
deadlines established in their contracts, and the complexity of the decision-making process involving three
countries. Consequently, EDM had to rely more heavily during peak loads on thennal power generation to
the detriment of its already deteriorating financial position.
EDM's management capacAty (2.2 million SAR, 2.4 million actual). In 1998, the management of EDM
was contracted out to a French/Canadian joint venture, which carried out a training needs assessment and
designed a management development program aimed to upgrading the technical and managerial competence
of middle- and upper-level staff. The program enabled EDM management to operate with a modicum of
success during the transition period between the ternination of the management contract in 1998 and
privatization of the company in 2000. The dissolution of the management contract in 1998 thrust a
relatively high degree of responsibility upon EDM managerial staff. The training program had enabled
them to operate with a modicum of efficiency during the difficult, two-year transition preceding
privatization of the company in 2000.
Long-term institutional framework (0.4 million SAR, 1.7 actual). Power sector restructuring was a
major project achievement. In 1997, an operational audit was conducted within the scope of the
management contract. The following year, the Government announced plans to privatize EDM by the end
of 2000. It engaged an investment bank, which produced a report on privatization options and strategy.
Prior to transferring EDM's assets to a private operator, the Government set up a new legal and regulatory
frameworks, and established in March 2000 an independent regulatory authority, Commission de
Regulation d 'Eau et d 'Electricite.
-4 -



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The Selingue power plant, with an installed capacity of 44 MW, provides nearly half of the electricity
supplied by EDM. If this production were to cease or were substantially reduced, all economic activity in
the country would be severely affected. The project thus averted a potential crisis, which would have had a
devastating effect on the population living downstream as well as the national economy. At the same time,
the project preserved existing assets, which represented a sunken cost. If the dam had not been repaired, it
would have been necessary to abandon it and drain off the reservoir. The rehabilitation works, with an
estimated present value of USD 48 million, was the least-cost solution. The other possible scenarios were
full thernal substitution, with an estimated cost of USD 185 million, and temporary thermal substitution,
to be replaced by energy purchased from the Manantali dam, with an estimated cost of USD 115 million.
Therefore, the electricity supply would have had to come from alternative sources three to four times more
expensive than rehabilitating the S6lingue dam.
The economic rate of return (ERR) for the overall Selingue rehabilitation was calculated by evaluating the
cost of the lost energy if the dam had not been repaired but drained off. The rehabilitation works, together
with 3 MW of thermal backup, was thus evaluated at 66 percent, which is not unusual for a rehabilitation,
as opposed to an investment, project This rehabilitation project was shown to have a net present value
(NPV) of USD 126 million applying a discount rate of 12 percent. The ex-post ERR has been recalculated
on the basis of an average sales price of USD 0.22 equivalent/kWH) applied against the energy produced at
the Selingue plant (190 GWh) less technical and non-technical losses (20%). Considering foregone sales of
USD 33.26 million p.a. without the project, the reevaluated ERR is 70 percent with an NPV of USD 171
million. This ERR is realistic in light of the lower actual cost of the rehabilitation works in relation to the
appraisal estimate. Moreover, this ERR is based on a conservative valuation considering that electricity
supply from alternative sources would have been three to four times more expensive than rehabilitating the
Selingue dam. A cost-benefit analysis and present value cashflows are presented in Annex 3.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The project was exempted from taxes and duties; therefore, the financial and economic rates of return are
the same.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact was substantial, particularly from the standpoint of
privatizing EDM. This in tum, was the only means that enabled the utility to regain its financial viability.
EDM had continuously experienced structural imbalance in its financial condition since 1995. Annual
tariff increases, as high as 20 percent, were inadequate to cover rising investment costs and operating
expenses. This situation was due to the combined effect of: (a) heavy reliance on thermal energy
production in the absence of lower cost alternative sources to meet peak demand; (b) the rise in prices of
imported goods and services resulting from the devaluation of the CFAF in 1994; and (c) the impact of
inflation local goods and services local.
Financial restructuring in 1995 consisted largely of cost containment measures, tariff adjustments, and
intensified efforts to recover overdue payments, in particular the mounting arrears owed by public entities.
Under the plan, EDM was expected to reduce operating losses, maintain sufficient working capital, pay
suppliers within three months of billing dates, and collect receivables within three months. These were
financial conditions stipulated in the impending Credit Agreement. By 1997, however, it became apparent
that the financial restructuring plan was no longer adequate. A new plan was adopted. It led to measures to
-5 -



increase water and electricity tariffs, respectively, by 12 percent and 30 percent in 1998, and again in
1999 by 10 for both electricity and water. It also provided for the settlement of arrears, in the amount
CFAF 2.2 billion (USD 3.7 million equivalent), and timely payments for further consumption guaranteed
by an advance of CFAF 387 million (USD 0.6 million equivalent), representing one month of consumption.
The company's long-term debt in the amount of CFAF 14.2 billion (USD 24 million equivalent) was
rescheduled. In addition, it received an operational subsidy amounting to CFAF 1 billion (USD 1.7 million
equivalent).
In 1998, EDM's financial situation continued to deteriorate despite the above actions. As an interim
measure to produce energy during periods of peak demand, the company purchased a gas turbine using
intemally generated resources. The capital and fuel costs drained its cash flow. This resultant shortfall was
further exacerbated by weak commercial performance linked to extensive blackouts which persisted until
all the thermal units were placed in service. Consequently, EDM was unable to comply with covenanted
financial ratios. In October 1999, the Bank threatened to suspend disbursements. In response, the
Govermment adopted a new water and electricity law. In a policy letter, it revealed its decision, inter alia,
to privatize EDM. A year later, EDM was privatized and the company's precarious financial situation
stabilized.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implenmentation end Outcomme
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Energy from the Manantali grid became available after a one-year delay in implementing the Manantali
Regional Energy Project. This delay had an impact on the demand/supply management with negative
consequences for EDM's financial position, causing the company to continue to rely on more costly
thermal energy. The situation was outside the direct control of the Govenmment of Mali. By international
agreement, decisions affecting the project had to be made according to the unanimous consent of all three
partners: Mali, Mauritania, and Senegal.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
A large measure of the project's success was the Government's commitment to make the necessary tariff
adjustments and decisive actions to restructure the sector by laying the groundwork for private sector
involvement and by opening the sector to competition.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The quality of corporate governance had a substantial impact on the project outcome. Against the Bank's
advice, EDM management took the decision to purchase the gas turbine. It is to be mentioned that the
measures recommended by the Bank, particularly the implementation of an energy efficient program was
very insufficient to correct the imbalance between supply and demand. It is significant that this occurred
during the two-year transition from management contract to the takeover by a private operator, the
implementation period when corporate govemance was the weakest. Under private ownership, EDM
effectively put internal control processes, inter alia, in place to improve the company's financial health.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project cost was USD 34.21million equivalent, which represented 81% of the appraisal estimate.
The actual expenditures for locally financed and co-financed works, goods, and services amounted to USD
9.8 million equivalent, which was two-thirds of appraisal estimates (IJSD 14.8 million equivalent). In
effect, physical and price contingencies were not needed. The actual expenditures for works, (including
- 6 -



supplemental works), goods, and services financed under the IDA credit were USD 24.41 million
equivalent, as compared with the initial estimate of USD 27.3 million, based on the SDR exchange rate at
the time of appraisal. In the intervening years, the SDR depreciated sufficiently in relation to the dollar to
make possible the utilization
of the 98 percent of IDA credit in the amount of SDR 18.5 million. An undisbursed balance of USD 0.41
equivalent will be cancelled from the credit account. In effect, during appraisal, the credit amount was the
equivalent of USD 27.3 million and is now the equivalent of 24.82 million. The financing plan is presented
in detail as follows:
In millions dollars US
Local contribution  Share In foreign currenc)        Total
IDA              1,23                 23,18           24,41                 71.30%
EDM SA           1,80                  2,70           4,50                  13.20%
BEI     I      __                      5,30           5,30                  15.50%
TOTAL            3,03                  31.8           34,21                   100%
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainabilty raung:
The physical infrastructure of the dam can be expected to hold up as long as technical audits are conducted
annually. Such audits should include an adequate safety inspection of the dam. In addition, proper
maintenance procedures should be regularly applied to the dam and powerhouse. The benefits of sector
restructuring will continue to accrue provided that the Govemment remains steadfast in its commitment to
creating a sound business environment, one that will foster competition and encourage private investors to
provide electricity service to the underserved segments of the population in areas outside the EDM's
operational perimeter. The sustainability of private sector involvement, in the near term, can be measured
by a sharp increase in EDM's energy sales, a decline in its energy losses, an increase in customers per
employee and a remarkable improvement in its financial ratios.
The positive impact of sector restructuring on EDM's operations and financial position represents
substantial gains. These will be strengthened by follow-up on institutional and regulatory aspects,
including the tariff revision, under the upcoming Household Energy and Rural Universal Access Project.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
To increase the electricity and water coverage in its perimeter, the private operator is presently mobilizing,
with the assistance of a financial advisor, the funds required to carry out the 2002-2006 investment plan.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank played a decisive role in project identification and preparation. During supervision of the Power
II Project, the Bank mission noted the absence of annual technical audits of the Selingue dam. At the
Bank's behest, a long-overdue dam inspection was carried out by an international firm. It revealed serious
-7 -



structural weakening of the dam. Not only was the darn unsafe, threatening the population living
downstream, but its deteriorating condition put the country's largest source of energy at high risk.
Following the inspection, the Bank financed the services of an internationally recognized expert in dam
design and security under an ongoing project credit. Furthermore, the Bank undertook detailed scheduling
to ensure implementation of works during essential points in time.
The new operation would be linked to the timiing of the Manantali Regional Power Project, a new source of
energy, scheduled to be completed by 2000. Because the preparation mission was concerned about the high
probability that the supply capacity would be insufficient to meet the demand during the next five-to-seven
years, it recommended that additional thermal units be installed to meet the demand until the Manantali
Regional Power Project was completed and able to produce electricity.
Preparation and appraisal missions paid careful attention to the project risk most likely to affect both
project imnplementation and sustainability, recognizing that EDM's management contract had been
ineffective in building a competent management team for the company's future operation. The Bank was
especially concerned that IDA-funded assets would be mismanaged and, therefore, insisted upon
institutional upgrading and financial restructuring as conditions for disbursement of IDA credit proceeds.
7.2 Supervision:
Jn addition to ensuring that civil works repairs to the dam and powerhouse were carried out according to
plan, Bank missions paid careful attention to EDM's current and future financial position, the long-term
institutional framework, and environmental action plan (EAP) whose purpose was to mitigate the negative
impact of the dam on the surrounding area since its construction in 1981. The Bank reacted swiftly to a
deterioration of overall Borrower performance and threatened to suspend disbursements on two occasions
on the grounds that the Borrower failed to comply with financial covenants (i.e., self-financing, debt-service
coverage, and collection ratios), was making little progress toward privatizing EDM, and also failed to
implement the EAP. Using its leverage in financing new projects, the Bank reached an agreement, in early
November 2002, with the Borrower on terms of reference for an assessment of environmental actions
carried out to date. EDM will recruit a consultant to carry out the work under the supervision of the Bank's
Environmental and Social Development Unit. On the basis of this assessment, it will be determined how to
best satisfy the objectives of the EAP.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
In view of the foregoing, the overall performance was highly satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government's role in preparing the project centered on facilitating inspection of the Selingue dam. It
also recruited a firm to manage EDM and participated actively, under the general guidance of the Bank, in
the procurement planning critical for the timely implementation of civil works.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Govermment embarked on a global program of economic reform to achieve accelerated growth in
private sector participation. This program is based on the following initiatives: (a) disengagement of the
State in productive activities leading to the privatization of public enterprises; (b) improvement in the
business environment; (c) modernization of administrative procedures in the public sector, and (d)
-8 -



formation of laws and regulations in the various sectors aimed at creating favorable conditions for private
sector participation. To assuage donors' concems over EDM's persistent operational and financial
difficulties, MMEH held a meeting with all its creditors and donors in Paris in April 1998. At the meeting,
an agreement was reached on the sector reform process, a strategy for future development of the electricity
and water sectors, and a new financial restructuring scheme for EDM.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
EDM had lead responsible for project implementation. The major works were completed while the
company was still under management contract In counterbalance to the generalized organizational
weakness following the termination of the management contract, EDM managers took a pro-active role in
the procurement process leading to privatization. EDM also took on the responsibility for coordinating the
implementation of components pertaining the other sectors. It hired a consulting firm to carry out an
environmental assessment and formulate an EAP, which comprised six components, covering several
sectors (energy, water, agriculture, health, education). It is noteworthy that EDM exercised due diligence in
implementing the water and electricity distribution component, an unfunded mandate, out of intemally
generated funds of about USD 0.9 million.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance was satisfactory, particularly in view of the successful initiatives it
took to reform the sector and privatize EDM, which offsets its inattention to the EAP.
8. Lessons Learned
On appraising the Selingue Rehabilitation Project, IDA was concerned about financing new acquisitions
apt to be mismanaged by a weak parastatal organization in poor financial health. The alternative to
rehabilitating the Selingue dam was to drain the lake and abandon the infrastructure. The result would have
been higher economic and social costs in the long run. The production of electricity from thermal and other
sources would have been considerably more expensive. Draining the lake would have also curtailed fishing
for commercial purposes as well as a means of subsistence. Moreover, it would have had a negative impact
on the quality of life of the population in the project area by limiting the availability of water for household
consumption and irrigation. Therefore, IDA approved the project but insisted that it include the requisite
institutional\ upgrading in the form of sector restructuring and management development. It also required,
as a credit condition, strict adherence to a financial restructuring plan, including compliance with
covenanted financial ratios. As soon as it became evident that the initial plan was no longer effective, IDA
acted without delay to require a new plan while pressing for the kind of sector reform that would culminate
in privatization. The lesson learned is that the Bank can justify financing a project generated out of
necessity even when the main implementing agency is an unstable institution, provided that essential
measures are put in place and promptly enforced.
The intended project outcome focused primarily on the critical need to repair and rehabilitate the dam. In
the intervening time, the Bank continued an intense dialogue on sector reform with Borrower strengthened
by conditions and the decisiveness, on the part of the Bank, to enforce them by means of suspending
disbursements, if necessary. Not only was the physical infrastructure completed on time according to
specification, but the project also met its institutional objective by resolving a pressing issue regarding the
weak operational and financial management of the country's principal operator in the sector. The simplicity
of project design, through a two-prong approach, afforded the possibility to direct adequate attention to
operations involving both physical infrastructure and institutional development as if they were separate,
-9-



self-standing projects.
The successful transfer of electricity and water supply services to private management, together with the
related assets, came about through a sequence of institutional reforms beginning with the corporatization of
EDM. After that, institutional upgrading followed in succession, over time, first by means of a three-year
management contact, then by urgently needed sector reform, including changing in the legal framework,
establishment of a regulatory authority, and finally by the transfer of assets to a private operator through
ICB under a concession agreement. Sector reform initiatives undertaken under the project demonstrate how
a step-by-step approach to institution building could facilitate privatization of public utilities.
The total estimated cost of the EAP (USD 2.5 million) was not included as part of the IDA credit. During
the negotiations, the Govermment indicated that it had other prospective sources for financing it, but none
materialized. Only one of six components was implemented. This was clearly the result of an unfunded
mandate not only from the standpoint of the Borrower, but also from the standpoint of the Bank Sufficient
finds were not allocated for an environmental specialist to supervise the EAP. The lesson drawn from this
project is that a fall-back position is essential. Future projects, whose objectives include environmentally
sustainable development, should provide direct fumding for environmental actions, including contingent
funds where the Borrower intends to obtain funding from non-Bank/IDA sources.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
PROJET DE REHABILflPATION DE SELIINGUE
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
¶.   !NTRODUCT[¢ON
Le programme de redressement de l'EDM a commence par la mise en oeuvre du Premier Projet Eau &
Electricite execute de 1983 a 1988, sur financement IDA, AFD (CCCE i 1'epoque), Fonds de l'OPEP et
FAC. Ce projet dont le cofit total a et de 35,5 millions de USD, a porte sur la rehabilitation de la centrale
de Darsalam, la construction de la centrale de Mopti-Sevare, la rehabilitation et l'extension du reseau de
distribution 6lectrique de Bamako, les travaux d'adduction en eau potable de Bamako, la construction de
bitiments d'exploitation, la realisation de diverses etudes, la formation du personnel et la mise a disposition
d'assistants techniques.
Le Deuxieme Projet Electricite constituait la deuxieme phase de ce programme de redressement et portait
sur l'appui aux reformes du secteur permettant de mettre sur pied un cadre institutionnel et financier
permettant le developpement efficace du secteur, la mise en oeuvre d'un programnme d'investissement
compatible avec l'evolution de la demande et la capacite d'endettement du secteur et, la promotion de
l'economie du bois de feu et l'utilisation de sources d'energie domestique de substitution. D'un cofit total de
94 millions de dollars, le financement du Projet a ete assure par l'IDA (33 millions de dollars), I'EDM (4
millions de dollars) et le reste reparti entre l'AFD, I'ACDI, la BAD, la BEI, la KFW et le FAC.
La troisieme phase du programme de redressement a &e Le Projet de rehabilitation de Selingue portant sur
la reparation et la rehabilitation des installations du Barrage hydroelectrique de Selingue afin d'eviter la
perte d'une source importante d'approvisionnement en electricite. La participation totale de la Banque
Mondiale dans le financement du Projet est 18,5 millions de DTS soit l'equivalent d'environ 24 millions de
dollars .
-10-



2.   OBJECTIFS
Le Projet de r6habilitation de Selingue a pour objectifs:
* Maintenir en bon etat de fonctionnement l'equipement de production le plus important du reseau
malien par la reparation et la rehabilitation des ouvrages;
* Assurer 1'equilibre entre l'offre et la demande d'e1ectricite par une augmentation de la capacite de
production thermique et par la mise en oeuvre d'un programme d'utilisation rationnelle de l'energie
* Renforcer la capacite manageriale et operationnelle d'EDM a travers (i) des etudes pour le
programme de developpement future du secteur de l'energie, (ii) I'acquisition d'equipements
infornatiques et de logiciels et, (iii) la formation du personnel in-situ et a l'etranger,
* Ameliorer l'efficacit6 du secteur par (i) la mise en a:uvre des reformes sectorielles et, (ii) la
privatisation de la Societe Energie du Mali.;
3.   DESCRIPTION
Le projet comprenait les composantes suivantes:
(a) Partie A: Rehabilitation des ouvrages de Selingue
* Al - Genie Civil: Reparation et renforcement du barrage;
* A2 - Equipements hydro et 6lectromecanique : Revision des 4 groupes de la centrale;
* A3 - Reseau de Transport: notamment (A3.a) Foumiture d'equipement pour la ligne Selingue -
Balingue, (A3.b) Coordination des protections 6lectriques et, (A3.c) Rehabilitation de
I'appareillage H.T des postes et ligne Selingue - Balingue;
(b)  Partie B: Maintien de 1 'equilibre entre l 'offre et la demande electricite
* BI - Renforcement de la capacite de production thermique du reseau interconnecte;
* B2 - Programme d'utilisation rationnelle de l'energie : notamment (B2.a) Etude sur la gestion de la
charge et de l'economie d'energie, (B2.b) Fournitures d'equipements relatifs a l'economie d'energie
et la gestion de la charge;
(c)  Partie C: Renforcement de la capacite manageriale d'EDM
*  C - Formation du Personnel;
* C2 - Acquisition d'equipements inforrnatiques et de logiciels;
(d) Partie D: Renforcement du contexte institutionnel et la privahisation d 'EDM
Les Services de Consultants necessaires a la realisation de ces 4 composantes sont classees en 2 groupes
dont les services de Consultants directement lies au Projet notamment Supervision de la revision des
groupes et de la coordination des protections electriques, 1'etude du Centre National de Dispatching et
l'expertise du genie civil du barrage.
En outre, certains Services de Consultants relatifs au Projet ont ete financ6s sur le Deuxieme Projet
Electricit&. Ce sont (i) I'Etude hydrologique; (ii) I'Etude d'impact du projet sur l'environnement et ; (iii)
I'Etude du comportement du beton vis-a-vis du risque d'alcali reaction;
- 1 1 -



Le financement de la partie BI du Projet a ete assure par la BEI a hauteur de 5,3 millions d'ECU.
Le projet devait etre termine au plus tard le 30 Juin 2000. II devait etre execute sous la supervision de la
Direction G6n6rale de l'EDM a 1'exception de la partie D - Renforcement du contexte institutionnel et la
privatisation d'EDM manage par le Ministere des Mines, de l'Eau et de l'Energie et dont le financement est
donn6 sous forne de don (idem financement de la partie B2 du Projet).
4.      EXECUTION
4.10 uvrages de Sflingui6
Toutes les actions prevues ont ete ou sont en cours de realisation:
>      Categorie I - Genie Civil (partie Al du Projet):
R6paration et r6habilitation du barrage: terminee A 100 %
>      Categorie 2 - Equipements Hydro et electromecanique (partie A2 du Projet)
* Revision des 4 groupes: terninee A 95 %. Les travaux de finition sur les alternateurs et sur les
transfonnateurs n'ont pas et acheves A cause des contraintes d'exploitation liee a l'alimentation
non securisee de la centrale de Manantali. Ces travaux ont e  repouss6s au dela de juin 2002 et
seront pris en charge sur Fonds Propres. En lieu et place, la Banque Mondiale a accepte de
financer le renforcement du poste de Badala avec 1'installation de 2 transformateurs 20 MVA
chacun objet du contrat n° 007/2001/Phr ex6cute a 80 %. Les 20 % restant seront acheves avant
d6cernbre 2002.
Foumiture d'un camion de recherche de defaut: livraison prevue A Bamako le 15/05/2002.
*  Revision des groupes thenniques : travaux excts A 100 %W.
Au cours de l'execution des travaux, il s'est avere necessaire la realisation des actions ci-apres, dites
urgentes; Ce sont:
* Foumitures de batteries de condensateurs : objet du contrat no 009/2002/Phr execute a 80 %. Les 20
% restant seront acheves avant fin 2002 et financ6s sur Fonds Propres
*   Le renforcement du cable 30 kV entre Balingue et Darsalam : non entamn, sera executer sur Fonds
Propres
*   le remplacement de la cellule transformateur auxiliaires a Selingu6: objet du contrat n° 009/2002/Phr
execute A 80 %. Les 20 % restant seront acheves avant fin 2002 et finances sur Fonds Propres
* le remplacement de la cellule transfonnateur 150 kV/8,66 kV a S61ingue objet du contrat n°
009/2002/Phr execute a 80 % . Les 20 % restant seront acheves avant fin 2002 et finances sur Fonds
Propres
*   1'entretien du groupe n° 2 de la centrale de Sotuba: La premiere consultation a echoue car ALSTOM,
adjudicataire provisoire et constructeur d'origine de l'alterateur n'a pas accept6 les conditions de
paiement conformes aux directives de la Banque Mondiale. Une deuxieme consultation actuellement au
stade des negociations a ete lancee. Le contrat qui en decoulera sera finance sur Fonds Propres et
execute courant 2003.
Categorie 3 - Equipements pour la partie A3, B2 et D du Projet:
Coordination des protections : terminee a 100 %
Rehabilitation ligne et poste HT : terminee a 100 %
-12-



Eqipement pour la Cellule de privation et la Cellule de Projet : livr6e a 100 %.
4.2     Etudes, Services de consultants ( Cat6gorle 4)
Les principales etudes rWa1is6es ont porte sur:
* Les r6formes sectorielles ; les etudes et services de Consultants ont ete r6alis6s pour 1'6laboration
des textes l6gislatifs et r6glementaires de restructuration des secteurs et la pnivatisation d'EDM;
achevees a 100 %
* L'Etude de la gestion de la charge et de 1'6conomie d'6nergie ; Achev6e a 100 %, les
recommandations non pas ete mises en muvr Le chapitre 7.3 en donne les raisons.
* L'Audit des comptes: r6gulierement effectu6 a 1'exception du rapport d'audit des comptes pour
I'ann6e 2000 qui n'a pas et foumni dans les delais. Le retard est dfi a la tenue tardive (aofit 2001)
du Conseil d'adminisration , date avant laquelle les comptes ne pouvaient etre publi6s.
*  La supervision des travaux de revision des groupes et du renforcement du Barrage: s'achevera
avec la fin des travaux de r&vision des groupes de Selingue
* L'etude du Centre National de Dispatching; DAO en cours d'elaboration suite a la relocalisation
du site du Dispatching a Lafiabougou
* La supervision de la Coordination des protections ; achevee a 100 %
* L'expertise en g6nie civil: achev6e a 100 % .
4.5F   ormation (Categorie 5)
Le personnel a ete fonne dans le domaine de l'exploitation des nouveaux 6quipements acquis et dans le
cadre du Projet.
- 13 -



5.   CO11T DU PROJET     (y compris les rivisions de prix et lmpr&vus) ((a) Hors interets pendant la
r6alisation du projeta)
En millions de dollars US ( 1 $US = 657,601 IF CFA au 28 juin 2002)
Part [Par
locale en devise Total
Rehabilitation des ouvrages de S6li guF6                      __                  _
Barrage                                                       _ 1,5   6,3      7,8     24%
Centrale                                                        0,4  ,8        9,2      28%
Mseaux de transport                                            0,2    5,2      5,4      17%
Maintien de l'6quilibre entre l'offre et la demande 61ectriicitW  _
Renforcenent thermique                                         0,3    5,3      5,6      17%
Prgrarnmne d'economie d'6nergie                                0,03   0,4      0,43     1%
Renforcement de la capacit6 manageriale d'EDM                   0,4   2        2,4   7  %
Renforcement du contexte institutfonnel et la pnivatisation d'EDM  0,2  1,5    1,7     5%
Total                                                           ,03   29,5     32,53    100%
S. PLAN DE NANCEMENT
En millions de dollars US ( X $US = 657601 F Aau2A   u 0     _ 28 iu 2002)
locale en devise Total
l)A                                                1_ 1,23   21,5     22,73   70%
EDM SA                                          __    1,8    2,7      4,s     14%
BEI                                                     _      5'3    5,3    116%
Tfotal1 - ,03                                                29,5     32,53   1100%
L'enveloppe allouee pour le financement des composantes financees par la Banque est indiqu6 dans le
tableau suivant:
CATEGORIE      DESCRPTION                                       COUTS
EN   DTS          Part IDA
I            G6n!e avil (partie Al du Projet)                 5.400.000,00        85%
2             Equipementb et installatioi ( partie A2 du Projet)  5.600.000,00    85%
Equipements
3               - Pour la partie A3 du projet
3.a             - Pour la partie B2 et D du Projet            3.800.000,00  100% D, 90% L
3.b                                                             100.000,00  100% D, 90% L
Services de Consultants
4               -Pour la partie B2 et D du Projet
4.a             - Pour les autres parties du projet           1.300.000,00       100 %
4.b                                                            2.100.000,00      100%
5             Formation
100.000,00         90%
6              on Affect6
100.000,00
-14 -



La situation des engagements est donnre en annexe.
6.   INDICATEURS DE PERFORMANCE DU PROJET.
6.1   GCnie civil:
* Objectifs : remplissage du lac a la c6te 348,5 m.
* Indicateurs de perfonnance : (i) mise a disposition des moyens permettant la mesure permianente du
niveau, l'interpretation desdites mesures et le drainage correct des eaux d'infiltration avant la
campagne de remplissage de l'ann6e 1997, (ii) separation des eaux d'irrigation du perimetre de celles
en provenance du barrage. Plus tard, les bons resultats obtenus lors de 1'execution des travaux, la
verification de I'atteinte des indicateurs de performance et la mise A jour des calculs de stabilite du
barrage ont permis de rehausser le niveau du lac a la cote 349 m. Niveau de performance atteint 100,
14%.
6.2    Electromncanique:
* Objectifs: (i) revision d'un groupe entre juillet de I'annee n et mars de l'annee n+l et, (ii) gros
entretiens des postes et ligne Se1ingue-Balingue
* Indicateurs de performance: (i) fourniture de la puissance nominale de 11,6 MW par groupe, (ii) la
reduction de l'echauffement du rotor a des valeurs normales, (iii) augmentation du productible de la
centrale de 170 GWh a 208 GWh, (iv)l'instauration de la selectivite entre les protections electriques des
differents niveaux de tension du reseau ir.:erconnecte et, (v) le transit des charges adequates par les
postes de Se1ingue et Balingue. Niveau de performance atteint 100 %.
6.3     Cadre institutionnelle et reformes du secteur de 1'electricit:
* Objectifs: (i) reglementation des secteurs de l'eau potable et de l'electricite et, (ii) privatisation d'EDM
en juin 2000.
* Indicateurs de performances : redressement financier d'EDM. Les principaux indicateurs financiers
entre 1996 et 2000 sont les suivants:
TIOS AUTONOMIE FINACIERE                           _
Capitaux Propres/Total Passif           0,56   0,49   0,25  0,26   0,58     0,52
Total dette/Capitaux Propres           0,79   1,05  2,97   2,83   0,71     0,81
RATIOS D'EQUILIBRE FINANCIER                       I            I
[mobilisations/Actif Total              0,83   0,84   0,94  0,90   0,90     0,81
Capitaux Permanent/Actif Immobilise     1,00   1,00   0,58  0,66   0,83      0,80
Valeurs realisables et disponibles/Dettes a Court 0,65  0,64  0,89  0,71  0,74  0,97
T erm e                                 I__ _   I__ _   _ _ _   _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Frais Financiers/Resultats avant impot et frais -9,44  3,91  2,75  -1,50  -0,49  0,85
financiers
Chiffres d'affaires/Capitaux Propres    0,39   0,45   0,85  0,68   0,35     0,51
- 15 -



7.    PRINCIPALES DIFFICULTES ACTUELLES ET SOLUTIONS APPORTEES
II est expose ci - apres les principaux problemes rencontr6s et les solutions apport6es ou a apporter
7.1 Audit des comptes aux 31 decembre 2000 et 2001
7.11.11 Exercice 2000:
*  Ilotation pour Renouvellement:
Le changement de taux d'amortissement est applicable seulement sur les Biens acquis apres la
privation. Les biens acquis en 2000 n'ont pas d'incidence sur le calcul de la PPR 2000.
* Non-achlvement de l'inventaire physique des innmobilisations:
Le fichier des immobilisations jusqu'en 1999 etait certifie par les memes auditeurs ; donc il n'y avait
plus qu'a verifier 1'exercice 2000, et les pieces justificatives y afferent sont disponibles.
*  Contentieux:
Tous les dossiers contentieux sont de nos jours bien tenus et conserv6s. Les infornations contentieuses
sont mensuellement mises a jour permettant ainsi la constitution ou la reprise de provision sur ces
dossiers.
* Assurance:
Ce point est traite en meme temps que le point precedent,
*  TVA Administratiom:
Le regime de la TVA & l'encaissement pour les ventes faites a l'Administration, est stipule a l'article
497 alinea b, du code g6n6ral des impOts.
*  Baux et tites :
80 % des titres fonciers sont en possession d'EDM. La cr6ation des autres titres est en cours.
*  llnventaire de stocks:
Les cabinets de co-commissariat aux comptes prennent part a la prise d'inventaire des stocks. Ces
resultats etant disponibles, il n'a pas ete juge necessaire d'engager d'autres frais supplementaires pour
le meme travail.
*  Arr&t des comptes:
Lors de chaque arrete de compte, nous etablissons dans un premier temps un planning des principales
actions A mener par cycle d'operations.
Un autre planning des ressources affectees A chaque cycle est egalement etabli et distribue A tous les
agents concern6s et les directions impliquees.
Un extrait des procedures d'evaluation des provisions et des principes comptables et d'evaluation des
certains postes essentiels est 6galement diffuse pour chaque arrete.
Enfin, une communication et des sensibilisations sont faites au Comite de Direction lors de chaque
arrete de comptes.
Concernant les ecarts entre les chiffres d'affaires comptabilises et les chiffres d'affaires declares, le
montage de l'interface entre la Comptabilite et le Commercial permettra de regler definitivement ce
probleme.
- 16 -



7.1.2 Exercice 2001:
* Baux et titres:
M&nes reponses que pour 2000.
*  Departs volontaires:
Les demandes de depart volontaire enregistrees permettent d'avoir une estimation raisonnable de cette
provision.
*  Paie du Personnel:
L'ensemble des informations de la paie sont automatiquement deversees dans la comptabilite et les
differents documents comptables ( balances, grands livres et autres pieces justificatives ...) sont tenus A
la disposition des auditeurs.
* TVA sur hausse tarifaire:
La comptabilisation de cette operation ne souffre d'aucune ambiguite car une attestation de la direction
generale des irnp6ts vient confirmer ladite ecriture.
*  Organisation comptable:
La reorganisation de la Direction financiere et Comptable, commencee depuis quelque temps est
presque terminee. Cette reorganisation est faite par cycle et couvre l'integralite des activites de la
direction.
* Gestion des abonnes:
Des travaux de pointage sont en cours pour assainir et mettre en conformite les chiffres de la direction
financiere et comptable et ceux de la direction centrale commerciale. Ces travaux aboutiront A la mise
en place de procedure permettant I'analyse d'eventuels ecarts. Le projet d'interface de Galatee, MT
2000 et la comptabilite generale est egalement en cours.
* Tresorerielfinancement:
Les contr6les ont ete renforces avec la mise en place de planification des activites par cycle.
*  Achats/fournisseurs:
Un poste d'accueil et relaionfournisseurs a ete cree.
*  Approvisionnement/stock:
Les notions de stock de securite et d'alerte sont prises en compte dans la mise en place du module PO
des achats dans ORACLE.
7.2 Mise en place de la Commission de Regulation de I'Electricite et de I'Eau (CREE):
En raison des divergences apparues par rapport a la multisectorialite de l'organe de regulation (6lectricite,
eau, communication), la Banque Mondiale (BM) n'a pas accompagne le Gouvemement du Mali dans la
mise en place de cette structure qui constituait une etape essentielle du processus de restructuration des
secteurs electricite et eau et de la privatisation de EDM. La CREE n'a pas pu ainsi disposer a ce jour de
budget de premier etablissement (equipement, formation etc.), d'ou la necessite de mise A disposition de
fonds permettant le bon fonctionnement de cette structure.
- 17 -



7.3 Mise em cauvre des recommnmdatioons de PI'tude de Is gestion de la charge et de P16conomie
d'&nerglie:
L'operation de diffusion de lampes basse consommation a e bloquee au stade de tests en laboratoire.
Malgre de multiples relances, aucun financement n'a pu etre obtenu pour proceder A l'execution de la phase
test in situ.
Une demande de prise en charge du budget previsionnel d'un montant de 11 millions de francs CFA a e
transmise a la BM par lettre no 003638 ST/FB du 15 novembre 2000 pour la mise en ouvre de cette
operation. A la date d'aujourd'hui aucun financement n'a 6te disporuble pour la mise en aBuvre des
recommandations de l'etude.
EDM-SA vient de creer au sein de sa Direction Adjointe Chargee des Investissements, un Service qui sera
charge des questions relatives A l'economie d'energie et de l'eau. Les recommandations de l'etude rSalisee
dans le domaine de l'economie d'energie seront mise en cauvre par ce Service A travers les budgets des a
nnees a venir.
8.   ?PERFO      NCE DE L'EMRUNTEUR
La performance de l'Emprunteur est satisfaisante au regard des indicateurs de Performance du Projet
notamment les perfornance enregistries sur la stabilite du barrage et l'augmentation de productible de la
centrale de Selingu6 et surtout en regard des indicateurs financiers d'EDM entre la periode 1996 et 2001.
Les principaux indicateurs financiers entre 1996 et 2000 sont les suivants:
RATIOS AUTONOMIE FINACLERE                           _
Capitaux Propres/Total Passif            0,56 0,49   0,25   0,26   0,58     0,52
Total dette/Capitaux Propres             0,79 1,05   2,97   2,83   0,71     0,81
RATlOS D'EQUILIBRE FINANCIER                                 _
Inunobilisations/Actif Total             0,83 0,84   0,94   0,90   0,90     0,81
Capitaux Permanent/Actif hnmobilise      1,00 1,00   0,58   0,66   0,83     0,80
Valeurs realisables et disponibles/Dettes A  0,65 0,64  0,89  0,71  0,74    0,97
Court Terme                                                       I
Frais Financiers/Resultats avant impot et frais  -9,44 3,91  2,75  -1,50  -0,49  0,85
financiers                                                        I          _
Chiffres d'affaires/Capitaux Propres     0,39 0,45   0,85   0,68   0,35     0,51
-18 -



Ces indicateurs sont tires du tableau suivant qui donne l'historique des chiffres cles des bilans et Comptes
d'Exploitation d'EDM:
Energie vendue GWh                      65    99   314    301    349      387
Tarifs moyens( F CFA/kWh)                6   73    89      5     957
Capitaux propres                        66   65    45     57     130      130
Total Passif                            118  134    180    18    226       53
Total dettes                            52   69     135   161    93       106
Total Actif                             118  134    180   218    226      253
Capitaux permanents                     98   113   99     129    169      164
Actifs Immobilises                      97   113    170   195    202      206
Valeurs r6alisables                     11   12    14     13     16       36
Disponibles                             1,08 0,89  0,84    ,63   2,50     4,60
Dettes A court terme                    19   19,6   16,4  19,1   24,8     41,36
Frais Financiers                        1,7  2,54  2,92   3,48   3,27     2,89
Chiffres d'affaires HT                 25,65 29,44  38,55  38,72  45,69   66,3
Resultats avant imp6t                  -1,88 1,89  r1,86   5,8  -9,9      0,53
Ces indicateurs montrent que la situation financiere d'EDM a 6volue favorablement entre 1996 et 1997.
Elle s'est effondree pendant la periode 98 - 99 oii la flambee du prix du petrole a entraine une
augmentation substantielle des couts d'exploitation notamment le cout du carburant pour les centrales
thermique. Le premier exercice 2001 qui a suivi la privatisation a donn6 un resultat net avant imp6t positif
de 530 millions de francs CFA malgre la mise en service, cette annee la, de la centmale de Balingue V dot6e
d'un groupe de 8 MW. Le deficit de l'annee qui a precede la privatisation se chiffrait A 9 900 millions de
franc CFA. Ce grand ecart a pu etre combl6 grice a un changement notoire des methodes de gestion,
I'adhesion et l'implication de l'ensemble du personnel pour I'atteinte des objectifs coherents orient6s vers la
satisfaction du client.
Cet acquis sera preserve grice A l'esprit des reformes sectorielles decid6es par le Gouvernement du Mali
notamment La mise en concession prive pour une periode de 20 ans du Service public de l'eau et de
l'electricite et l'orientation de l'Etat vers son r6le de controle afin d'instaurer des relations commerciales plus
normales avec le concessionnaire prive. Cet demier s'est engage a rialiser sur la periode de la concession
un volume pr6visionnel d'investissements nouveaux et de renouvellement d'environ 400 milliards de francs
CFA permettant ainsi d'alimenter 97 localites en electricite et 17 en eau potable.
Parallelement la Commission de Regulation de l'Electricite et de l'Eau (CREE), dotee de pouvoirs
d'enquetes et d'investigations, ainsi que de pouvoirs d'injonction et de sanction vis-a-vis du concessionnaire
prive, veille sur les interets des usagers et soutient le developpement du service de l'electricite et de l'eau
potable. Elle contr6le et approuve les tarifs avant leur mise en application. A cet propos, la CREE a
examin6 et valide les augmentations tarifaires de l'annee 2001 conform6ment au cadre reglementaire des
contrats de concession eau et electricite. EDM lui verse mensuellement une redevance de regulation
correspondant a 1% du chiffres d'affaires facture et soumis A TVA au cours du mois prec6dent.
Par ailleurs, sur l'aspect environnemental du projet, la contre performance du Gouvemement du Mali a et
l'insuffisance des ressources disponibles pour la r6alisation complete du Plan d'Action Environnementale
de Selingue (PAES). Ceci a amene la Banque Mondiale A faire valoir plusieurs fois son intention de
- 19 -



suspendre les decaissements.
Pour suppleer a ce manquement de l'Etat, EDM SA a engage des Fonds Propres pour la mise en ceuvre du
PAES entrainant ainsi une degradation de sa situation de tresorerie deja tendue entre 1998 et 1999.
Aujourd'hui encore, les investissements effectifs relatifs au PAES ainsi que leur impact sur les conditions
de vie des populations riveraines du barrage de Sengue ne sont pas connus avec precision. Un rapport
indiquant son etat d'execution a ete soumis a la Banque Mondiale. Par ailleurs, la Banque a sugg6re le
recrutement d'un Consultant qui sera charge de (i) recenser toutes les actions diffuses men&es par l'Etat et
susceptibles de suppl6er le PAES et, (ii) mener des enquetes d'6valuation aupres des populations en vue
d'6valuer le degre nuisance caus6 par les travaux sur lesdites populations. Le projet de Termes de reference
relatfaux prestations du consultant sera arnende en vue d'integrer les observations de la Banque
Mondiale._
9. PERFORMANCE DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE
9.1    Phase identification:
Cette phase n'a pas connu de difficulte majeure. EDM sortait de 1'execution de son Projet Electricite II
finance par le cr6dit IDA 1998/MLI. Les resultats des 6tudes men6es dans le cadre de ce projet ont pennis
de definir clairement les objectifs du Projet
Cependant, il faudrait signaler que malgre l'existence d'idees claires sur les objectifs, cette phase a ete trop
longue (environ 12 mois de decalage sur une dur6e de 18 mois) a cause des multiples discussions autour de
la composante thernique du projet.
9.2    Phase pr6paration:
Cette phase 6galement n'a pas connu d'obstacle majeur, sauf en ce qui conceme sa dur6e de r6alisation trop
longue A cause des discussions tenues autour du d6coupage par lot des composantes et des modes de
passation des marches pour l'acquisition des fournitures et la r6alisation des travaux. Les objectifs du
projet ont ete adoptes et le projet a e d6fini dans tous ses aspects technique, 6conomique,
environnementale, financier et institutionnel.
93     Phase negociation et approbadon du projet:
Les premieres difficultes sont apparues lorsque:
Pour le programme de renforcement thermique:
La Banque n'a pas accepte de prendre une participation en 6voquant d'une part la crise de tr6sorerie de
EDM pour faire face aux charges de fonctionnement et d'autre part les problemes de pollutions engendres
par le fonctionnement des centrales thermiques. En lieu et place d'un renforcement thermique, la Banque a
prefere un programme d'efficacite energetique comme solution d'ecretment de la courbe de charge en
attendant l'arrivee de l'energie de Manantali prevue A l'epoque pour 1998. Jusqu'en juin 2002, date de
cl6ture du Projet, I'alimentation de la centrale de Manantali n'6tait pas completement securisee.
EDM a par consequent sollicit et obtenu de la BEI le fmancement de 8 groupes de 1 MW a Balingue et 1
groupe de I MW a Mopti. La strategie de choisir les petits groupes de I MW a ete fondee sur les
experiences passecs dans d'autres pays et elle devra permettre de resorber le deficit de pointe de quelques
-20 -



centres isoles lorsque l'energie de Manantali arrivera sur le reseau interconnect6.
Pour la passation des marches de la composante A2 - Equipements Hydro et electromecanique
EDM a suggere que les marches de cette composante soit decoupes en 3 lots qui sont: (i) le lot turbine,
(ii) le lot alternateur et (iii) le lot Contr6le Comrande. Ce decoupage devrait permettre de passer des
marches par entente directe avec les constructeurs d'origine de ces equipement respectivement VOITH,
ALSTOM et TRINDEL.
La Banque a rejete cette strategie et le marche a 6te passe en I lot unique et attribue au Groupement
ALSTOM/SPIE ENERTRANS.
Plus tard, d'enormes difficultes sont apparues car ni EDM ni le Contractant ALSTOM n'ont pu obtenir la
collaboration de VOITH, fabricant d'origine des turbines. Des declenchements intempestifs lies a des
ph6nomenes de pompages des systemes de regulations de vitesse des groupes ont ete connus. Ces
declenchements se traduisent par des volumes importants d'energie non distribuee. .
Sur ce type de materiel out un seul operateur peut effectuer les prestations, il n'est pas utile de lancer une
consultation internationale. Independamment des desagrements evoques plus haut, cette procedure a
introduit un retard d'un an sur la date de demarrage de la revision du premier groupe qui aurait du
commencer en juillet 1996. Les travaux sur ce groupe ont commence en juillet 1997. Cet decalage d'un an
sur les travaux du premier groupe a entrain^ un retard de 4 ans sur les travaux du dernier groupe dont 3 ans
lies au temps de revision des groupes precedents (1 groupe par an).
Les deux points precedents soulignent de facon generale les problemes qui apparaissent lorsque qu'il y a
une predominance des solutions techniques proposees par les experts de la Banque par rapport a celles
proposees par les experts nationaux.
9.4    Phase ex6cution et supervision
Les principaux problemes connus au cours de cette phase sont:
*      Pour le respect des procedures de la Banque:
Il sera evoque ici, les retards induits dans la r6alisation des projets par les procedures de passation des
marches qui veulent, qu'A chaque 6tape - de l'elaboration des cahiers de charges jusqu'a la signature du
marche - I'approbation de la Banque soit requise pour continuer. Ces delais sont estimes a environ 4
semaines par 6tapes.
*      Pour les decaissements defonds directs par la Banque:
Le manque de communication entre les Differents Departements de la Banque entraine le rejet ou le
paiement partiel des DRF. En effet, ce fait est frequent et serait lie a l'absence de copie des contrats au
niveau de la Division de Deeaissement de la Banque alors que d'autres structures de la Banque detiennent
les memes documents. Ceci montre la necessite de renforcer la coordination entre les differents
departements de la Banque pour le traitement des requetes et la resolution des eventuels problemes.
*      Pour le cadre institutionnel et reglementaire:
Le financement de la Banque n' a pas couvert (i) la repartition des 40 % des actions detenues par l'Etat et,
-21 -



(ii) la cr6ation de la Commission de R6gulation de 1'ElectricitM et de l'Eau (CREE).. Pour renforcement la
competence et 1'ind6pendance de la CREE stir les dossiers qui lui sont soumis, il est n6cessaire de preparer
et mettre en wurme un programme de formation et ad6quat A l'intention du persomnel
(b) Cofinanciers:
None
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None
10. Additional Information
None
- 22-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
lndicatorlMatrix                    Projected In last PSR                Actua/Latest Eatimate
1. Reparing and rehabiitatg S6elngue  ^ Filling the reservoir up to Its normal capadty
facWflles:                            (348.5 meters) by September 1997
'civil works                           Completion of the rehablitation within the
foliowing sdcedules:
*eletromechanical factifes            Unit 4: Apri 1999                      Done
Unit 2: Apri 2000                     Done
Unft3:May1998                         Done
UnIt 1: Apri 2001                     Done
*Selrngu6arameko transmisson One      * Conpletion of work by December 1999  Done
Transmission network (electric protecton  * Design and Implementaton and infomaDon Done
system)                               system on service qualty (HV/MV elecric
network) by December 1999
2. Maintaining the electcity demand/  * Completion of the fist phase (3 MW) by  Done
supply system:                      February 1997
* Thermal capacWy                     * Completion of second phase (6 MW) by
Apdl 1997
* Energy efficiency program           * Energy Efficiency Study carried out by  Done
July 1998
3. Strengthering EDM's Martagemnent    Implemenation of traiing program from  Done
(training)                          November 1997 to 2000
4. Long-term Institutional framework  I Adoption and enatment of a new       Done. EDM privatked November 2000.
(new regulatory framework sectdor     institutlonal framework by June 1999
reform; privatizatlon of EDM).
Output Indicators:
IndicatorIM stiix~          E__   _ __  _ _ __  _ _  _ __  _ _    _ _ _  __ _  _ _ _t__     __ _  _ _
N/A
End of project
-23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project-Cost By Component            US$ million  US$ million
Rehabilitation of Selingue Hydropower Facility    22.90          24.00            105
Maintain Demand/Supply Balance                     8.90           6.03            68
Strengthening EDM Management Capacity              2.00           2.40            120
Long-Term Institutional Framework                  0.40           1.78           445
Total Baseline Cost                               34.20          34.21
Physical Contingencies                            4.70
Price ContingencIes                                1.60
Total Project Costs            40.50          34.21
Interest during construction  1.60
Total Financing Required            42.10          34.21
* Actual = 81% of the Appraisal Estimate
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
b -  J -  i~  '~ .Procuremefit Metlhod'
Expenditure Catgory  -             Pr-ourementC   M tho'       N,B.F.     Total Cost
ICB       N~~CB,      Other                  ______
1. Works                     7.60                                               7.60
(6.50)         0            0            0          (6.50)
2. Goods                    18.00         0.50         0.50         9.70        28.70
(15.70)      (0.40)        (0.50)       (0.00)      (16.60)
3. Services                                            4.20                     4.20
0            0          (4.20)         0          (4.20)
4. Miscellaneous                                                                0.00
O            0            0            0          (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                                                                0.00
O             o           0            0          (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                                                                0.00
O            O            0            0          (0.00)
Total                     25.60        0.50         4.70         9.70        40.50
(22.20)      (0.40)        (4.70)       (0.00)      (27.30)
-24 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
-, - Expendfture               ICB iCB                                  N..F.       Tot l Cost
L 1        S     -,  ," ""  ," |   I  rl I  $   IIIw os; [_ - .,  I  |  o,,1 szsq a___ 
1. Works                       7.23                                                    7.23
(7.23)          0             0             0           (7.23)
2. Goods                       12.62                       0.40          9.80         22.82
(12.62)          0           (0.40)         0           (13.02)
3. Services                                                4.16                        4.16
. ________________      _        o0            0           (4.16)         0           (4.16)
4. Miscellaneous                                                                       0.00
O             O             0             O           (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                                                                       0.00
O             0             0             0           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                                                                       0.00
O             O             0             0           (0.00)
Total                       19.85          0.00          4.56          9.80         34.21
(19.85)        (0.00)        (4.56)       (0.00)        (24.41)
u Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in USS million equivalent)
Component             AppraIsal *-1-N   ~~ _  ci  l  rPercentageof Appraisal
C_ _  nen           1          Estm''te           Ai uaVateu t . t..t.ate '  ! ,
____________ _ WA_  |__ _ .Govt.  -I CoF.  2fl)DA,  , ovt   CoF.    Bank |Got. | CoF.
RehabilitatIon of Seiingue  20.30  8.30              19.50      4.50              96.1   54.2
Hydropower Facility
Maintain Demand/Supply  3.60                6.50      0.73               5.30     20.3          81.5
Balance
Strengthening EDM       2.90      0.10                2.40                        82.8   0.0
Management Capacity
Long-Term InstitutIonal  0.50                         1.78                       356.0
Framework
* CoF. = IEB, Govt.= EDM
-25 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs &nd Benefits
Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
(USD million, 2002)
Present Value of Flows
Economic Analysis
Latest
Appraisal    Estimates
Benefits        352.00        498.90
Costs            21.70        34.02
Net Benefit     373.70        464.88
ERR               66%          70%
(b) Present Value Cash Flows (UsD million, 2002 prices)
Cost:       Benefits:
Capital   Losses without
Expenditure  the Project    Net Benefits
1996      3.11          0.00          (3.11)
1997      11.34         0.00          (11.34)
1998      17.92         0.00          (17.92)
1999      0.43         33.26          32.83
2000      0.42         33.26          32.84
2001      0.80         33.26          32.46
2002      0.00         33.26          33.26
2003      0.00         33.26          33.26
2004      0.00         33.26          33.26
2005      0.00         33.26          33.26
2006      0.00         33.26          33.26
2007      0.00         33.26          33.26
2008      0.00         33.26          33.26
2009      0.00         33.26          33.26
2010      0.00         33.26          33.26
2011      0.00         33.26          33.26
2012      0.00         33.26          33.26
2013      0.00         33.26          33.26
Total     34.02        498.90         464.88
-26 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
() Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                    Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
12/1993                    3    1 Sr. Energy Specialist
I Financial Analyst
I Hydraulic Engineer
Appraisal/Negotiation
04/1995                    4    1 Sr. Energy Specialist
1 Financial Analyst
I Energy Specialist
I Hydraulic Engineer
Supervision
06/1996                     3   1 Financial Analyst              HS           HS
I Sr. Energy Specialist
1 Power Engineer
12/1996                     3   1 Financial Analyst              S             S
1 Sr. Energy Specialist
I Engineer
06/1997                     4   1 Financial Analyst              S             S
I Sr. Energy Specialist
I Engineer
I Energy Efficiency Specialist
12/1997                    2    1 Energy Specialist              S             S
I Financial Specialist
04/1998                     4   1 Sr. Energy Specialist          S             S
I Energy Specialist
1 Financial Analyst
I Project Officer
10/1998                    4    1 Sr. Energy Specialist          S             S
I Energy Planner
I Financial Analyst
I Project Officer
02/1999                     6   1 Sr. Energy Planner              S            S
2 Sr. Energy Specialists
I Sr. Financial Management
Specialist
I Sr. Energy Specialist
I Project Officer
06/1999                     2   1 Sr. Energy Planner              S            S
I Sr. Energy Specialist
10/1999                    5    1 Sr. Energy Planner             S             S
2 Sr. Energy Specialists
I Sr. Financial Management
Specialist
I Sr. Energy Specialist
05/2000                     1   1 Sr. Energy Planner              S            S
-27 -



12/2000                     1   1 Sr. Energy Planner              S            S
ICR
04/2002                     1    1 Power Engineer                 S             S
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              79.5                      189.9
AppraisaVNegotiation                    51.3                       90.6
Supervision                             59.2                      216.2
ICR                                      4.0                        8.4
Total                                  194.0                      505.1
-28 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OI Macro policies                     O H  *SUOM O N O NA
O Sector Policies                     * H OSUOM O N O NA
O Physical                            * H OSUOM      O N O NA
O Financial                           O H *SUOM O N O NA
LI Institutional Development          0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
aI Environmental                      O H  OSUOM O N O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction             O H  OSUOM O N * NA
LI Gender                       O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)        O H OSUOM O N O NA
lI Private sector development         0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Public sector management            0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
OIOther (Please specify)              O H OSUOM O N O NA
-29 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                               Rating
a Lending                                         OHS Os       OtU    OHU
L Supervision                                     OHS OS       O U    O HU
a Overall                                         OHS OS       OU     O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                           Rating
O Preparation                                     OHS OS       OU     O HU
O Government implementation performance           0 HS O S     O U    0 HU
El Implementation agency perfonmance              O HS OS      0 U    0 HU
a Overall                                          OHS OS      OU     O HU
- 30 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. "Projet de R6bahilitation de Selingu6, Rapport d'Achbvement," prepared by the Direction Ginerale,
Energie du Mali SA.
- 31 -



- 32 -



MAP SECTION






_________________________________________      lO~~~~~IRD  32208
E.  1~~~~~~~~ ~MALI
NOUAKCH                         I4,                   12                    10O        -  1
POWER SYSTEM
225 kV P-  - i.i.- li * 'S  DAM SITE$ (hoemgl River Ovdy):
DLAREGION                                                                                                             IOBA"A  10 TOUGUE
*j  ,,  .-.--- E Aw2NIAGARA       1156SA1015
ATLANTIC             (ST.-LOUIS/                                    MAURITANIA                                               UJcv           3 KOUKOUTAEABA 12 KOLE
DAGANA)                                                                                          F-----                4 0150Y5  13 FAGAN
OCEAN                                                                                                                      1 -7   o0 '  kVA X  P5 pvFWmrl  SBOUREYA  14 FADOUGU
6ITENE I  15 5GA106G0
ITENE 11  1 6GOURBASI
*                    ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~8 GAYA  7 UI?  0 A6
E- E4q d.-          9  09SALUA  18 FELOU
8.g.6                                                       00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S kI4i6,d dH.( I..')   DOAM SrrES (Niger River 0.ly):
i t DaorjnpGsgPSJ j   ^ \   t   o KoF6o i  l  0  [  dJ    ~          19 KMNIEAA1
20 MARKMAA
HUMAN DYNAMICS
/~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~   ~~~~~MDL Vat  &   \ MDL A/ALLEY RE_GI1°OFpbhn_NIOO,Dmobln
11 -IV                                                              50,0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~161X020 ,,4kiH-
fiGetBy///~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 -Skh  -9>_  -<'4  i>  - - -                 - -<:>  - -.X  - -__.  - . . . .  .  .  .  .   . . . . . . . . . .l 2 . .  20,000 ihi.6-
5,0050 h.6-hoi
-bovrO            SENEGAL                          ,                   '      -0
m 0\T                                                UPPER VALLEY REGION/                                               biri
>                  O Kounpanlounn          \    !     ->         {II fAKEL/ILABE)E                                          . . _._Imhnobnd
BANJ U   ? ;J
GUINEA            G 8                                                                         C
I0 hi/Kbntin           -S                       lAonou                      ~       ~              i )  &   D IVOIRE .>- ,. §/KooLol° v
o  20  40  60  hOhOMMe                                                                                                           Kodolo'' \ i   ' \ oF i u o oyedrlfto
16.                   _ 140                     1   _ _ . 2            10'                    -tf   L    Pi        t \ r 6e   <  _       occeF t=ncw o l sucA
GUINEA  Fk2









25255
jN CR K



