Page  1
                                                             CONFORMED COPY
                                                     CREDIT NUMBER 2850 MLI
                             Project Agreement
                 (Selingue Power Rehabilitation Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                    and
                              ENERGIE DU MALI
                            Dated May 13, 1996
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2850 MLI
                             PROJECT AGREEMENT
       AGREEMENT, dated May 13, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and ENERGIE DU MALI (EDM).
       WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between THE REPUBLIC OF MALI (the Borrower) and the Association,
the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to eighteen million five hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,500,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that EDM
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
       (B)    by a subsidiary loan agreement and a grant agreement
respectively, to be entered into between the Borrower and EDM, the
proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agree-
ment will be made available to EDM on the terms and conditions set forth
in the said subsidiary loan agreement and grant agreement; and
       WHEREAS EDM, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to under-
take the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                                Definitions
Page  2
       Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
       (a)    "fiscal year" means EDM's fiscal year which begins January
1, and ends on December 31 of the same year; and
       (b)    "Environmental Mitigation Plan" means the action plan for
the mitigation of the Project's adverse impact on the environment,
described in EDM's letter of April 17, 1996, as the same may be modified
from time to time subject to the Association's prior approval.
                                ARTICLE II
                         Execution of the Project
       Section 2.01. (a)    EDM declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate environmental,
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
       (b)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Association and EDM shall otherwise agree,
EDM shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
       Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
       Section 2.03. EDM shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of this Agreement and the Project.
       Section 2.04. (a) EDM shall, at the request of the Association,
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
       (b)    EDM shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the per-
formance by EDM of its obligations under this Agreement.
       Section 2.05. EDM shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Grant Agreement. Except as the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, EDM shall not take or concur in action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, or waiving the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or the Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
       Section 2.06.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, EDM shall:
       (a)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the EDM and the Association, a plan designed to ensure
the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
       (b)    afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with EDM on said plan.
                                ARTICLE III
Page  3
                     Management and Operations of EDM
       Section 3.01. EDM shall carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental
and engineering practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
       Section 3.02. EDM shall at all times operate and maintain its plant,
machinery, equipment and other property, including the Selingue dam, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
public utility practices.
       Section 3.03. EDM shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
       Section 3.04. Unless EDM and the Association shall otherwise agree,
EDM shall, at all times during the implementation of the Project, employ,
under a management contract awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, an independent operator to
manage its operations under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association.
                               ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
       Section 4.01. (a) EDM shall maintain records and accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition, including its operations in respect to the
Project.
       (b)    EDM shall:
              (i)   have its records, accounts and financial statements
                    (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
                    and related statements), including those for the
                    Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, in
                    accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                    consistently applied, by independent auditors
                    acceptable to the Association;
              (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
                    in any case not later than six (6) months after the
                    end of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
                    financial statements for such year as so audited, and
                    (B) the report of such  audit by said auditors, of
                    such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
                    have reasonably requested; and
              (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                    concerning said records, accounts and financial
                    statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                    Association shall from time to time reasonably
                    request.
       Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
EDM shall not incur any debt, unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues
and expenditures of EDM shows that the estimated net revenues of EDM for
each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred, shall be at
least 1.1 times the estimated debt service requirements of EDM in such
year on all debt of EDM including the debt to be incurred.
       (b)    For the purposes of this Section:
              (i)   the term "debt" means any indebtedness of EDM maturing
                    by its terms more than one year after the date on
                    which it is originally incurred;
Page  4
              (ii)  debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
                    (A)    under a loan contract or agreement or other
                           instrument providing for such debt or for the
                           modification of its terms of payment on the
                           date of such contract, agreement or instrument;
                           and
                    (B)    under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
                           agreement providing for such guarantee has been
                           entered into;
              (iii) the term "net revenues" means the difference between:
                    (A)    the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                           operations and net non-operating income; and
                    (B)    the sum of all expenses related to operations
                           including administration, adequate maintenance,
                           taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but
                           excluding provision for depreciation, other
                           non-cash operating charges and interest and
                           other charges  on debt;
              (iv)  the term "net non-operating income" means the
                    difference between:
                    (A)    revenues from all sources other than those
                           related to operations; and
                    (B)    expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                           of taxes, incurred in the generation of
                           revenues in (A) above;
              (v)   the term "debt service requirements" means the
                    aggregate of repayments (including sinking fund
                    payments, if any) of, and interest and other charges
                    on, debt;
              (vi)  the term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
                    prepared by EDM not earlier than twelve months prior
                    to the incurrence of the debt in question, which
                    both the Association and EDM accept as reasonable
                    and as to which the Association has notified EDM of
                    its acceptability, provided that no event has
                    occurred since such notification which has, or may
                    reasonably be expected in the future to have, a
                    material adverse effect on the financial condition
                    or future operating results of EDM; and
              (vii) whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
                    necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
                    guarantor, debt payable in another currency, such
                    valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
                    lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency
                    is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                    purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence
                    of such  rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange
                    acceptable to the Association.
       Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
EDM shall generate, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year
ending on December 31, 1996, funds from internal sources equivalent to
not less than ten percent (10%) of the annual average of the capital
expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that year, the
previous fiscal year and following fiscal year.
       (b)    Before November 30 in each of its fiscal years, EDM shall,
on the basis of forecasts prepared by EDM and satisfactory to the
Association, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in
paragraph (a) in respect of such fiscal year and the next following
fiscal year and  shall furnish to the Association a copy of such review
Page  5
upon its completion.
       (c)    If any such review shows that EDM would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for EDM's fiscal years covered
by such review, EDM shall promptly take all necessary measures in order
to meet such requirements.
       (d)    For the purposes of this Section:
              (i)   the term "funds from internal sources" means the
                    difference between:
                    (A)    the sum of revenues from all sources related
                           to electric power operations, consumer
                           deposits and consumer contributions in aid of
                           construction, net non-operating income and any
                           reduction in working capital other than cash;
                           and
                    (B)    the sum of all expenses related to electric
                           power operations, including administration,
                           adequate maintenance and taxes and payments
                           in lieu of taxes (excluding provision for
                           depreciation and other non-cash operating
                           charges), debt service requirements, all cash
                           dividends and other cash distributions of
                           surplus, increase in working capital other
                           than cash and other cash outflows other than
                           capital expenditures;
              (ii)  the terms "net non-operating income" means the
                    difference between:
                    (A)    revenues from all sources other than those
                           related to electric power operations; and
                    (B)    expenses, including taxes and payments in
                           lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                           of revenues in (A) above;
              (iii) the term "working capital other than cash" means the
                    difference between current assets excluding cash and
                    current liabilities at the end of each fiscal year;
              (iv)  the term "current assets excluding cash" means assets
                    other than cash which would in the ordinary course of
                    business be converted into cash within twelve months,
                    including accounts receivable, marketable securities,
                    inventories and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable
                    to operating expenses within the next fiscal year;
              (v)   the term "current liabilities" means all liabilities
                    which will become due and payable or could, under
                    circumstances then existing be called for payment
                    within twelve months, including accounts payable,
                    customer advances, taxes and payments in lieu of
                    taxes, and dividends;
              (vi)  the term "debt service requirements" means the
                    aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
                    fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
                    charges on, debt;
              (vii) the term "capital expenditures" means all expendi-
                    tures incurred on account of fixed assets, including
                    interest charged to construction, related to electric
                    power operations; and
             (viii) whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it shall
                    be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
                    the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such
                    valuation shall be made on the basis of the pre-
Page  6
                    vailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other
                    currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtain-
                    able for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in
                    the  absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                    exchange  acceptable to the Association.
       Section 4.04. EDM shall at all times make adequate annual pro-
visions for depreciation and renewals of its fixed assets in accordance
with sound accounting practices, acceptable to the Association.
       Section 4.05. EDM shall by December 31, 1997, take all measures
as shall be necessary to reduce its consumer arrears to no more than the
equivalent of the amounts billed for the previous three (3) months, and
maintain such arrears at not more than that level thereafter.
                                 ARTICLE V
                       Effective Date; Termination;
                        Cancellation and Suspension
       Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
       Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of EDM thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the
following two dates:
              (i)   the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
                    shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
              (ii)  the date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
       (b)    If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, the Association shall promptly notify EDM of this event.
       Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                         Miscellaneous Provisions
       Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
       For the Association:
              International Development Association
              1818 H Street, N.W.
              Washington, D.C. 20433
              United States of America
              Cable address:                     Telex:
                      INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
                      Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                                  64145 (WUI) or
                                                 197688 (TRT)
       For EDM:
              B.P. 69
              Square Patrice Lumumba
Page  7
              Bamako, Mali
                                                 Telex:
                                                 2587
       Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement
on behalf of EDM, or by EDM on behalf of the Borrower under the
Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by the General
Manager of EDM or such other person or persons as the General Manager
shall designate in writing, and EDM shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
       Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      By /s/ Stephen Denning
                                                 Regional Vice President
                                                                  Africa
                      ENERGIE DU MALI
                      By /s/ Cheick Oumar Diarrah
                                              Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE 1
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
       Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provi-
sions of "Section I of the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1996 (the Guidelines)
and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.      Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the pro-
visions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1
thereto.
2.     The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1 of this part B:
       (a)    Prequalification
       Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Page  8
       (b)    Grouping of contracts
       To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped
in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
       (c)    Preference for domestically manufactured goods
       The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of
the Borrower.
Part C:       Other Procurement Procedures
1.     National Competitive Bidding
       Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.     National Shopping
       Goods estimated to cost less than $40,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of
the Guidelines.
3.     International Shopping
       Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of
the Guidelines.
4.     Direct Contracting
       Spare parts for the rehabilitation and repair of existing
electrical and mechanical equipment under Parts A and B of the Project,
which are of a proprietary nature, may, with the Association's prior
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
3.7 (c) of the Guidelines.
Part D:       Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Procurement Planning
       Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts,
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to
the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement
of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and
with the provisions of said paragraph.
2.     Prior Review
       With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, and for works, the procedures set forth
in paragraph 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.     Post Review
       With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
1.     Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
Page  9
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the consultants Guide-
lines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed
by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be
used.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts
for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association
review shall not apply to: (i) the terms of reference for such contracts,
(ii) single-source selection of consulting firms, (iii) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (iv)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (v) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                          Implementation Program
1.     The Project shall be implemented by EDM under the supervision of
MMHE.
2.     EDM shall carry out the Project, in accordance with the procedures
set out in Project Implementation Plan and, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, EDM shall not amend, abrogate or waive any pro-
vision thereof in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, will
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
3.     EDM shall:
       (a)    maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof;
       (b)    furnish to the Association for its review and comments
quarterly progress reports on the status of the Project;
       (c)    not later than June 30 and December 31 of each year,
commencing in 1997, undertake, in conjunction with the Association and
the Borrower a joint semiannual review on all matters relating to the
progress of the Project and, in particular, the progress achieved by
EDM during the current fiscal year, having regard to the monitoring
indicators referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph;
       (d)    not later than one month prior to each semiannual review,
furnish to the Association: (i) for its approval, a proposed semiannual
work program, including a proposed budget and financing plan, for the
forthcoming fiscal year, and (ii) for its review, a report in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the progress of
the Project during the current year; and
       (e)    following each semiannual review, act promptly and
diligently in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary to
remedy any shortcoming identified in the implementation of the Project,
or to implement such measures as may have been agreed upon between the
parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
4.     (a)    Not later than June 30, 1998, EDM shall carry out, jointly
with the Borrower and the Association, a comprehensive review of the
execution of the Project. Without limitation upon the generality of the
Page  10
foregoing, the review shall, inter alia, cover: (i) the status and
results of training, reporting, accounting and audit performance,
disbursement and procurement procedures and the overall sustainability
of the Project, (ii) the execution of the management contract referred
to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement, (iii) the impact of the Project on
the environment, and (iv) the status of implementation of the action
plan for the strengthening of the institutional framework of the
Borrower's power sector referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of the Development
Credit Agreement.
       (b)    Not later than thirty days prior to the review referred to
in paragraph (a) above, EDM shall furnish to the Association, for its
comments, a report in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request, including an evaluation of the progress achieved in implementing
the various components of the Project, and a draft action plan containing
proposals for remedying any identified deficiencies.
       (c)    Promptly after said review, EDM shall: (i) prepare an action
plan satisfactory to the Association based on the recommendations stemming
from the aforementioned review, and (ii) adopt and implement said action
plan for the remainder of the Project implementation period.
5.     Until completion of the Project, EDM shall carry out, under terms
of reference acceptable to the Association, an annual technical inspection
of the Selingue dam and power station, and thereafter take all measures
necessary on its part, to remedy any defect identified by said inspection.
6.     EDM shall implement with due diligence and efficiency the
Environmental Mitigation Plan.
7.     Not later than December 31, 1996, EDM shall furnish to the
Association an action plan satisfactory to the Association designed to
remedy the environment and health problems, and income loss caused by
the Selingue dam to the population living in the area surrounding the
dam site, and thereafter, implement said action plan with due diligence
and efficiency.
8.     EDM shall take all action necessary on its part to implement the
action plan for the EDM Financial Restructuring Plan.
