Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                 CREDIT NUMBER 2850 MLI
                    Development Credit Agreement
               (Selingue Power Rehabilitation Project)
                               between
                          REPUBLIC OF MALI
                                 and
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated May 13, 1996
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2850 MLI
                    DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 13, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF MALI (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A)  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      (B)   the Project will be carried out by Energie du Mali (EDM)
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to EDM part of the proceeds of the Credit
as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of
even date between the Association and EDM;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
Page  2
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
      (b)   the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
            agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
            expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
            a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
            supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
            any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
            goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
            Charter of the United Nations.".
      Section 1.02. Unless the  context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "EDM" means Energie du Mali, a public corporation
established and operating under Ordonnance No. 26/PGP, dated October
14, 1960 and status modified on December 6, 1989, of the laws of the
Borrower;
      (b)   "MMEH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Mining, Energy, and
Hydraulics;
      (c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (d)   "Project Implementation Plan" means the plan described in
the Borrower's letter dated March 28, 1996, specifying, inter alia,
procedures and other arrangements agreed upon between the Borrower and
the Association for the purpose of the implementation of the Project;
      (e)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date here-
with between the Association and EDM, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (f)   "Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means the agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower and EDM pursuant to Section 3.01 (b)
and (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Subsidiary Financing Agreement;
      (g)   "EDM Financial Restructuring Plan" means the action plan
described in the Borrower's letter dated October 24, 1995; and
      (h)   "FCAF" means the currency of the Borrower.
                             ARTICLE II
                             The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen
million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,500,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in FCFA a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a
Page  3
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including appropriate protection against setoff, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a)
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from
the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on March 15 and September 15 commencing September
15, 2006 and ending March 15, 2036. Each installment to and including
the installment payable on March 15, 2016 shall be one percent (1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in
constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Asso-
ciation may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so
requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained
under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph
(a) above.
Page  4
      Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE III
                      Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, without limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under this Agreement, shall cause EDM to perform, in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement, all its
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable EDM to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall relend out of the proceeds of the Credit
the amount allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (2), (3) (a)
and (4) (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
to EDM under an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
EDM, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association and which shall include: (i) a repayment period of twenty
five years, including a grace period not to exceed five (5) years, (ii)
an interest rate of 7.7 percent per annum, and (iii) provisions requiring
EDM to bear the foreign exchange risk.
      (c)   The Borrower shall make available, out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the amount allocated to Categories (3) (b) and (4) (a) of
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to EDM, on
grant basis, under an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and EDM, and under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Association.
      (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the
Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not amend, abrogate, or waive the Subsidiary Financing Agreement,
or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and
9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project shall be
carried out by EDM pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   participate in the midterm review referred to in paragraph
4 (a) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, and thereafter, take all
actions necessary on its part for the implementation of the action plan
referred to in paragraph 4 (c) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
      (b)   Not later than three (3) months prior to the midterm review
referred to in paragraph (a) above, furnish to the Association for its
review an action plan for the strengthening of the institutional
framework of its power sector, and thereafter, take all measures
necessary on its part for the implementation of said action plan,
taking into account the Association's comments thereon.
                             ARTICLE IV
                    Financial and Other Covenants
Page  5
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures are retained until at least one year after
                  the Association has received the audit report for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                  Credit Account, or payment out of the Special Account
                  was made; and
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
                  such records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) (i) of this Section, including those for the
                  Special Account, audited, in accordance with appro-
                  priate auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as possible, but in
                  any case not later than six (6) months after the end
                  of such year the report of such audit by said auditors,
                  of such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested, including a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements
                  of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal controls
                  involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
                  support the related withdrawals; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 31,
1997, ensure that all arrears due to EDM from its ministries and other
agencies, are reduced to not more than the amount billed for the
previous three months, and maintain such arrears at not more than that
level thereafter; and (b) take all action necessary on its part to
implement the EDM Financial Restructuring Plan.
                                  ARTICLE V
                         Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   EDM shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
            the Project Agreement;
      (b)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date of
            this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
            which shall make it improbable that EDM will be able to
            perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
      (c)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
            have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
            of EDM or for the suspension of its operations; and
      (d)   the Statutes or by-laws of EDM shall have been amended,
            suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
Page  6
            materially and adversely the ability of EDM to perform any
            of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
                             ARTICLE VI
                     Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions,
namely that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been duly executed
by the Borrower and EDM.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Associa-
tion:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by EDM and is legally binding upon EDM in accordance with its
terms; and
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and EDM, and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and EDM.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                              ARTICLE VII
              Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister in charge of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the pur-
poses of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Bamako
            Mali
                                           Telex:
                                           2559
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                  INDEVAS                  197688 (TRT),
Page  7
                  Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA),
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                            82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF MALI
                  By /s/ Cheick Oumar Diarrah
                                          Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Stephen Denning
                                     Acting Regional Vice President
                                                             Africa
                             SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of
                              the Credit
                              Allocated             % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works              3,700,000        85%
(2)  Equipment and            7,500,000        85%
     installation under
     Part A of the Project
(3)  Equipment                                 100% of foreign
                                               expenditures and
                                               90% of local
                                               expenditures
     (a) under Parts A.3 and
         C of the Project     1,300,000
     (b) under Parts B.2 and
         D of the Project       600,000
(4)  Consultants' Services                     100%
     (a) under Parts B.2 and
         D of the Project     2,300,000
     (b) under the other Parts
         of the Project         200,000
(5)  Unallocated              2,900,000
                             __________
Page  8
     TOTAL                   18,500,000
                             ==========
2.Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 1,800,000 may be made on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after the date
four (4) months before the date of this Agreement.
3.    The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower.
4.    The term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of
the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower
is also that of another country from the territory of which the goods
and services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods
or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".
5.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure, under such terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower,
for expenditures for: (a) goods and works under contracts not exceeding
$100,000 equivalent, and (b) consultants' services under contracts not
exceeding $100,000 equivalent for consulting firms and $50,000 for
individual consultants.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                     Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to improve the Borrower's supply
of electric power and to strengthen the institutional and regulatory
framework of its power sector.
      The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Selingue Dam, Power Plant and Transmission System
1.    Carrying out repairs and rehabilitation of the Selingue dam.
2.    Carrying out repairs of the Selingue Power Plant, including the
acquisition of equipment for the powerhouse and the overhaul of four
generators.
3.    Strengthening of the capacity of EDM to operate and maintain its
Selingue-Bamako transmission line and sub-stations, through provision of
technical advisory services, spare parts and maintenance and the
rehabilitation of the electrical protection system.
4.    Carrying out a feasibility study on a dispatching center for the
Borrower's interconnected power system.
Part B:     Electricity Supply and Demand
1.    Upgrading the thermal generation capacity of the Borrower's power
system, through the acquisition of about nine 1 megawatt capacity diesel
units.
2.    Carrying out of an energy efficiency program designed to reduce
distribution system technical losses and promote more efficient uses of
electricity, through the acquisition of equipment and provision of
technical advisory services.
Part C:     Capacity Building
      Strengthening the management capacity of EDM through: (a) training
Page  9
of staff in the operation and maintenance of power generation facilities,
(b) carrying out of studies for future power sector development programs,
and (c) acquisition of equipment and computer software.
Part D:     Institutional Development
      Provision of technical advisory services and acquisition of equip-
ment for the preparation of a new institutional and regulatory framework
for the development of the Borrower's power sector.
                              *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
                             SCHEDULE 3
                           Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to CFAF 375,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
CFAF 250,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commit-
ments entered by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,500,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special
Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                  shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
                  into the Special Account at such intervals as the
                  Association shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
                  this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of
                  which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                  such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
                  Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
                  into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been paid
                  out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
Page  10
                  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association
                  from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
                  Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
                  as shall have been justified by said documents and other
                  evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Asso-
ciation, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of
this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to
the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule,
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request, or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
Page  11
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
