M(INTREAL
PROTOCOL
Report No:  13941 UR
URUGUAY
OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUND GRANT
REDUCTION OF THE CONSUMPTION OF
OZONE-DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
(ODS PHASEOUT I)
PROJECT DOCUMENT
JUNE 1995
THE WORLD BANK
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT COORDINATION DIVISION
ENVIRONMENT DEPARTMENT



1 3942-UR
URUGUAY
OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUND GRANT
REDUCTION OF THE CONSUMPTION OF
OZONE-DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
(ODS PHASEOUT 1)
PROJECT DOCUMENT
JUNE 1995



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Uruguayan Pesos (UrS)
US$1.00 = Ur$5.88 (Exchange rate as of January 11, 1995)
UNiTS AND MEASUIRES
metric ton (mt) = 1,000 kg
FISCALYEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS
BROU                .     Banco de la Repuiblica Oriental del Uruguay
(Bank of the Oriental Republic of Uruguay)
CFC                 :     Chlorofluorocarbons
COGO                :     Comisi6n T6cnica Gubernamental de Ozono
(Govemmental Ozone Technical Commission)
DINAMA                    Direcci6n Nacional de Medio Ambiente (National
Directorate for the Enviro.nent)
MFEC                .     Executive Committee ofthe Multilateral Famd for the
Implementation of the Montreal Protocol
MIFMP               -     Multilateral Fund for the Montreal Protocol
MP                  :     Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer
MVOTMA                    Ministerio de Vivienda, Ordenamiento Territorial y Medio Ambiente
(Ministry for Housing, Land and Environment)
ODS                       Ozone-Depleting Substances
OTF                 :     Ozone Projects Trust Fund
SOE                 -     .Statement of Expenditure
TA                        Technical Assistance
UNDP                :     United Nations Development Prorminne



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Grant Summary ..........................................................                                                                  i
Memorandum  and R             e c o m             m      e n d a tio n ................................................................................................................. 
Schedule A: Estimated Project Cost and Allocation of Grant Pro                       cds ................................................e^ . £
Schedule B: Procurement and Disbursement Methods .................................................7
Schedule C: Tmetable of Key Processing Events .................................................11
Country Program Summary ................................................                                                                12



REPUBRICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
REDUCTION OF CONSUMPTION OF
OZONE-DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PROJECT
Grant Summary
Recipient                 Republica Oriental del Uruguay
Executing Agency:         Ministerio de Vivienda, Ordenamiento Territorial y
Medio Ambiente (MVOTMA)
Beneficiaries:            Local private enterprises phasing out ODS, as subprojects
are reviewed and approved by the Multilateral Fund Executive
Committee or the Bank, and MYOTMA as Executing Agency
Poverty:                  Not applicable
Amount:                   U$5.0 million equivalent, including US$500,000 of
retroactive financing
Terms:                    Grant from the Monteal Protocol Ozone Projects Trust Fund
Commitment Fee:           Not applicable
0n-lending terms:         Not applicable
Financing Plan:           See Schedule A
Rate of Return:           Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report                    Not applicable



REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
REDUCTION OF CONSUlPTION OF
OZONE-DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PROJECT
Background
I     The Republica Oriental del Uruguay (the Recipient) ratified the Montreal Protocol (MP) on
Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer on January 8, 1991, and is committed to the control and gradual
phaseout of ozone-depleting substances (ODS). The Recipient neither produces nor exports any of the
ODS controlled by the MP, and hence its consumption corresponds to its imports. In 1992, the Recipient
consumed approximately 317 metric tons (mt) of ODS, used mainly for refrigeration, air conditioning and
foam products, and in minor quantities for other manufactuing applications, such as solvents and fire
extinguishers. Most ODS used are CFC-12 and CFC-I1, accounting respectively for 58.3 percent and
36.9 percent of the totl consumption in 1992.
2.    The Bank (the Trustee) is an implementing agency for the MP, jointly with the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP), United Nations Envionment Program (UNEP) and Unted Nations
Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO). Fundig for approved projects is channeled through the
Bank under its Ozone Trust Fund (OTF) Agreement with the Montreal Protocol Multilateral Fund
Executive Committee (MFEC). The Recipient is eligible for grants from the Multilateral Fund for the
Montreal Protocol (MRMP) on the basis of its 0.11 kilogram (kg) of estimated ODS per capita
consumption. The MFMP was established to provide support to developing countries in meeting their
MP obligations. The Fund is managed by the MFEC, which reviews and approves grants at or above
US$500,000 (below this figure being approved by the Bank as Trustee) following established eligibility
and cost-effectiveness criteria. The Recipient is a very active participant in MFEC discussions, through
the Argentinean seat
3.    In March 1993 the Recipient, supported by LINDP, prepared a Country Program on ODS
Phaseout, as a first step in the development of a comprehensive phaseout strat. During a three-year
period, a reduction of about 95 mt or 30 perct of actual consumption is excted. To fulfill the
objectives and policy outlined in the Country Program and to facilitate and simplify project
implementation in the futue, the Recipient has established the Comisi6n Tecnica Gubernamental de
Ozono (COGO, Governmental Ozone Technical Commission) within the Direcci6n Nacional de Medio
Ambiente (DINAMA, National Enviroment Directorate), created in 1990 within the Ministerio de
Vivienda, Ordenamiento Territorial y Medio Ambiente (MVOTMA, Ministry for Housing, Land and
Environment). Besides this, the Country Program includes other actions such as the implementation of
public information and technical retraining programs, and the establishment in the medium term of a
finacing program for technology conversion.
4.    At the request of MVOTMA, the Bank assisted in the preparation of a pipeline of subprojects
eligible for MFMP grans, in line with the ODS strategy outlined in the Country Program. Funding for
this MP operation is approved by the MFEC (at or above US$500,000) or the Bank (below US$500,000)
on the basis of individual subprojects. Four of these projects, focused on commercial and household
refrigeration and insulation foams for water heaters, were considered and approved with cost
modifications at the 15th meeting ofthe MFEC in December 1994. Other projects for the air conditioning
sector, especially reconversion in large buildings, are presently being identified and prepaed.



2
modifications at the 15th meeting of the MFEC in December 1994. Other projects for the air conditioning
sector, especially reconversion in large buildings, are presently being identified and prepared.
Project Objectives
5.    The objective of the proposed project is to support the Recipients program to reduce ODS
consumption by 30 percent to 40 percent with respect to 1992 levels, by providing technical assistance
and technology conversion support to the consumers of ODS. The project will also contribute to the
strengthening of the institutional framework for the identification, preparation, evaluation and
management of subproject proposals, and transfer of funds to final beneficiaries.
Project Description
6.    The project has two components:
(a) the investment component, which provides subgrants to the private finns to assist them in
switching from use of ODS to non-ozone-depleting materials and technology. This
component consists of approximately ten subprojects, four of which have been already
appraised by the Bank and approved by the MFEC; this component will finance
producton process conversions, mechanical equipment and installations, recovery and
recycling equipment and retrofitting of existing facilities; and
(b)    a technical assistance (TA) component to strengthen COGO as the executing unit in
supportng MVOTMA to provide assistance to the private beneficiaries in the
identification, preparation, evaluation and administation of subprojects. This TA
component will provide funds for specialized training, office equipment and consulting
services.
The projects expected Completion and Closing Dates are December 31, 1997 and June 30, 1998,
respectively.
Project Costs and Financing
7.    The total project cost is estimated at US$5.0 million equivalent, including 15 percent in
contingencies (see Schedule A). The MVOTMA will be managing the implementation of the project
including fimd transfers in lieu of a financial agency. The expenditres associated with this function are
eligible for MFMW finding and are approved in conjunction with individual subprojects. Thus, the 3
percent fee approved by the MFEC would be paid to the COGO, executing unit within MVOTMA, to be
used for traiing and technical assistance. The total investment amount is based on the costs of the four
subprojects already approved by the MFEC and other projects planned in the pipeline. Retroactive
finmcing (estimated at USS500,000 equivalent) is proposed for expendiures incuTed one year before the
signing of the Grant Agreement, upon approval of procurement methods and final uses of the procured
items.
S.    The eligible incremental costs of approved subprojects (up to a maximun of US$4.853 million)
would be financed by an OTF grant to the Recipient which will channel it as a grant to the private
beneficiaries through MVOTMA. The eligibility criteria for subprojects are those established by MFEC.
Subprojecs would be consistent with County Progam  priorties and objectives; have direct and



3
demonstrable results in reducing ODS consumption in the country, be cost-effective and based on
enviromnentally sound technologies that replace or reduce consumption of ODS covered by the MP,
taking into account the industrial policy of the country; and meet other criteria established by the MFEC.
Grants are calculated to be equivalent to the "incremental costs" of eliminating or reducing ODS
consumption at the enterprise/institution level. The MFEC Guidelines define incremental costs as
comprising the net present value (discounted at 10 percent in real terms) of additional costs that an
enterprise would incur in phasing out ODS. It is derived by calculating the difference between the cost of
the phaseout activity and the baseline cost that would have been incurred to provide the same level of
service or production using ODS.
Project Implemetation
9.    The MVOTMA has been designated by the Recipient as the Executing Agency for this operation,
and will be responsible for promoting ODS phaseout activities and ensuing that private implementation
of the subprojects are consistent with the Country Program. It will also be responsible for subproject
processing, including subproject evaluation, submission of such subproject to MFEC or the Bank for
their approval, and management of prcuremnent and disbursement arrangements governed by subgrant
agreements to be entered into between the Recipient (through MVOTMA) and the private beneficiaries
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. To meet its responsibilities under the project, the
MVOTMA has designated COGO as the project unit, which will be strengthened under the project
COGO was created with support of the institutional strengthening resources from the MP through UNDP.
T-his unit is already flmctonng, has a highly trained staff, and has already developed the necessary
technical knowledge required for project implementation.
Procurement
10.    Procurement of goods and services will be in accordance with the Bank-s Procurement
Guidelines. Procurement procedures and ceilings for prior review are presented in Schedule B. Although
procurement will be the responsibility of the private beneficiaries, the MVOTMA will ensure that the
goods and services to be purchased and carried out for the investment subprojects are reasonably priced,
and that the necessary canvassing of the main suppliers and contractors for works has taken place and is
reflected in the most cost-effective purchase agrements. Consultants will be selected in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency.
Disbursement
11.    For grant-finanoed goods and services contacts, the Bank will disburse against 100 percent of
eligible foreign and local incremental costs as defined by the MFEC Guidelines (see paragaph 9), net of
direct import, sales and value-added taxes. The grant may be used for local transport from the port of
delivery to the conversion or installation sites. To facilitate disbursement, the Recipient will establish a
Special Account at ihe Banco de la Republica Oriental del Uruguay (BROU, Bank of the Oriental
Republic of Uruguay), with an initial deposit of US$200,000 equivalent to about 4 months of estimated
expenditure, and a minimlum amount for replenishment of US$50,000 equivalent W-ithdrawals from the
Special Account would be contingent upon final approval for each new subproject by the MFEC or the
Bank and deposit of funds in the OTF at the Bank. Full documentation will be required for disbursement
requests for all contracts receiving prior Bank review, for all other contacts, disbursements out of the
Special Account will be made against Statements of Expendire (SOE). The withdrwal procedures and



4
disbursement schedule are presented in Schedule B. It is expected that the new subprojects would be
prepared and submitted to the Bank for appraisal by December 31, 1995, thus providing adequate time for
seeking MFEC approval, implementation of the subprojects and completion of disbursements by June 30,
1998.
Reporting Requirements
12.   MVOTMA will also undertake the following: (a) transmit to the Bank a semi-annual report on
implementation progress; (b) hold a Mid-Term Review not later than 18 months after the grant
effectiveness date; and (c) transmit to the Bank a annual audit report acceptable to the Bank for the
project accounts, including those for the Special Account and SOE withdrawals, not later than four
months after each fiscal year. The Mid-Term Review will assess the progress in achieving the objectives
of the project and the county program, as well as the implementation of approved subprojects and
preparation of new subprojects. One of the semi-annual reports will serve as the basis for the Mid-Tern
Review and will be prepared prior to the review mission. The Bank's supervision missions will include
review of progress and audit reports, and approval of all subproject appmisal reports.
Project Sustaiuability
13.   The Recipient is committed to phasing out ODS as required by its obligations under the MlP. The
funds for this project are being provided on a grant basis to introduce new non-ODS technologies, and
will also be passed on to final beneficiaries on a grant basis. The investments made possible through
these grants will contribute to the reduction or elimination of ODS consumption from production
processes and industrial applications in the medium and long tenn. For this purpose, the project will
establish an efficient mechanism for developing and implementing subprojects to complete the ODS
phaseout program. Limited availability of ODS and ODS-dependent components, coupled with falling
prices for subsfitutes, are expected to sustain the fiture use of ODS recycling equipment and non-ODS
technology.
Lessons from Other M  Operations
14. Past MP operations in the region have relied heavily on the Bank's support for subproject
appraisal and negotiation with MFEC for approval. This has led to inefficiencies and delays as the Bank
needed to draw information from the companies at every step of the review process. In addition, the
national ownership and its representation at the MFEC was lacking. This operation is designed to provide
national agencies with means and tools to assume greater responsibil for subproject preparation and
implementation.  Past MP operaions have faced inefficiencies during implementation because
responsibilities have been split between the project executing agency and a financial intermediary. Since
the overriding purpose of these grants is to provide incentives to expedite technological conversion, this
operation centralizes decision-making and execution responsibility in a single entity, MVOTMA, while
the BROU acts only as depository of the grant proceeds.
Rationale for Montreal Protocol Finaucing
15.   The project is consistent with MFECs and the Bank's implementation guidelines and criteria for
the use of OTF funds. The project provides incentives for enterprises to accelerate their process of
switching fiom ODS to non-ODS technologies, which has been favored by technological changes in
export markets in which goverunent regulations support the ODS phaseout trend. The changes arising



S
fiom this trend will be hastened by the availability of these grant resources, especially in those cases
where the absence of subsidy would make the changes financially unattractive.
Project Benefits
16. The project will serve as the vehicle for demonstrating the Recipient's commitinent to its ODS
phaseout program, leading to a 30 percent to 40 percent reduction in ODS consumption during a 3-year
period (approximately 110 mt). The quantity meets the timetable of consumption reduction included in
the Country Program, and represents a contribution to protecting the earth's ozone layer with its
associated global environmental benefits.
Project Risks and Risk Mitigation
17.   Technical and commercial risks which may be perceived by the enterprises, as well as
institutional weaknesses in MVOTMA at the early implementation stages, could slow down project
execution. These risks are being addressed tbrough the provision of technical assistance for strengthening
COGO's management, administration and advisory services. In addition, key COGO staff have
participated in Bank-sponsored procurement seminars. Other such training, such as in disbursement
procedures, would be provided.
Environmental Aspects
IS.   The project is designed to protect the environment by reducing ODS emissions. However,
substitution of ODS with other chemicals or technology may involve other environmental concerns and
hazards, such as (i) flammabilily, which project beneficiaries have to address with sound engineering,
taining and industrial safety procedures; and (ii) possible contribution to global warming as they are
classified as greenbouse gases.  However, the latter may be minor because the volume of these
substances is very small on a national and global scale, and their effect may be off-set by the energy
efficiency gained in their application as refrigerants. The MVOTMA will review all the subprojects to
identify all their environmental and safety consequences. The costs of corrective measures are eligible
expenses under the MFMP, and would be included in the project. For these reasons, the project is
classified as 'B' for environmental assessment purposes.
Actions Agreed
19.   During negotiations, it was agreed that MVOTMA would prepare prior to effectiveness:
(i) a work program (including a timetable) to be followed by COGO in carrying out the technical
assistance component of the project; and (ii) a concise implementation manual for potential
applicant firms describing subproject eligibility criteria (including the environmental review
process for the subprojects), technical guidelines, review procedures, as well as administrative
procedures for grant application, terms and conditions of subgrant agreements with MVOTMA
and procurement and disbursement procedures. During negotiations, drafts of the COGO work
program and the implementation manual were reviewed and found satisfactory.



6
Attachments
Schedule A
Estimated Project Cost and Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Subproject
Incremental
Components                 Costs
US$ thousand
equivalent
Investnent
(1) Approved Subprojects                 1,192
(2) Future Subprojects                   3,661
(estimated)
Technical Assistnce                        14
Grant Total                              5,000
Fimancing Plan
(in US$ million)
Source        | Totall   Percentage
Montreal Protocol Ozone    5.0            80
Projects Trust Fund
Private Beneficiaries      1.0            20
TOTAL                      6.0           100



7
Schedule
Procurement and Disbursement Methods
A. Procurement Arrangements
The project will finance a wide range of production process conversions, mechanical equipment
and installations, recovery and recycling equipment, retrofitting of existing facilities and specialized
training for the private beneficiaries. As the project's Executing Agency and the sole public sector
beneficiary, MVOTMA will also be strengthened through technical assistance, specialized training and
office equipment, not exceeding US$147,000 equivalent Total private procurement will amount to about
US$4.85 million, comprising four subprojects already appraised and approved by MFEC and about six
more subprojects to be identified and prepared. Procurement will be the direct responsibility of the
private enterprises.  The MVOTMA Project Unit (COGO) will be responsible for ensuring that
participating private firms fbllow the Implementation Manual's procurement guidelines, which would be
carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(January 1995), as follows:
Private Procurenent of Goods and WoTks
(a)    Procurement by private beneficiaries will usually involve a limited number of
suppliers for the specialized equipment. In many cases specialized equipment
will need to match the technical specifications of original suppliers in the
modification of existing facilities. Therefore, contracts for goods and works to be
procured by the private beneficiaries will be awarded in accordance with
established commnercial practices of the private users, which normally require
comparison of price quotations solicited from at least firee qualified suppliers.
These practices have been reviewed and found acceptable by the Bank; and
(b)   direct contracting will be used for proprietary packages.
Public Procurment of Goods and Consultinr Services
(a)   for MVOTMA, contracts for goods are expected to be small (i.e. total aggregated
cost less than US$50,000 equivalent), and would therefore be awarded through
shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank on the basis of comparison of price
proposals from at least three eligible suppliers; and
(b)   consultants would be hired following the procedures in "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing
Agency" dated August 1981.



8
Pourement Methods
(in US$ million) a)
ICB     LCB    OTBER    TOTAL
Subgrants for                             5.853       5.853
goods, works,                           (4.853)    (4.853)
services and local
freight under
the Subprojects
Equipment and                             0.047       0.047
materials                                (0.047)    (01047)
Consulbing Services                       0.100       0.100
(0.100)    (0.100)
TOTAL                              6.000       6.000
--__________________      (5.000)     (5.000)
a)   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Ozone Projects Trust Fund grant
Prior Review
Prior review by the Bank would be required on the following bid packages and
contracts:
(a)   consultan& contracts estimated to cost US$ 100,000 equivalent or more for firms
and US$50,000 equivalent or more for individuals; single-source selection;
assignments of a critical nature; any amendments raising the value of consultas'
contcts greatr than the foregoing thresholds (below these thresholds, the Bank
will review the terms of reference); and
(b)   proprietary technology and equipmenL
Prior Review by MVOTMA
All procurement contracts regardless of value will be reviewed and approved by the
MVOTMA Project Unit prior to disbursement When applicable, the Bank's Standard Contract
for complex consulting assigmnents with firms will be used. Documentation for all contracts not
subject to prior review by the Bank, including all contracts for cases of retroactive financing, will
be retained by MVOTMA and made available for ex-post review by the Bank during supervision
missions.



9
B. Disbursements
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the OT G{rant
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the OTF
Giant, the allocation of the amounts of the OTF Grant to each Category, and the percentage of
expenditures for items to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the OTF
Grant Allocated     percent of
(Expressed in Dollar   Expenditures to be
Category            Equivalent)         Financed
(1) Subgrants to    4,853,000           100 percent of
finance goods, works,                   amounts disbursed
services and local
fireight under the
Subprojects         147,000             80 percent
(2) Goods,
consultants' services
and training for    5,000,000
MVOTMA
TOTAL
Prior to disbursement of each subgrant, MVOTMA will sign a subgrant agreement with each
private entepnse beneficiary under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank will
disburse against 100 percent of foreign and local costs eligible under the MFEC guidelines and
criteria, net of direct import, sales and value added taxes, for grant-financed goods, works and
services contacts, where applicable. Eligible costs also include local transport from the port of
delivery to the conversion or installaion sites. Disbursement would follow procedures outlined in
the Disbursement Handbook published by the Bank, and in the Disbursement Letter which will be
issued after the Grant is signed. During supervision missions Bank staff will review arrangements
to ensure that (i) disbursements did not occur prior to the Bank's "no objection" for each subgrant
and (ii) the amount of the subgrant is not exceeded.
Disbursment Schedule,
CALENDAR        1995       1996             1997        1998
YEAR                                          _ _ _ _
US$ million
Annual          0.5        3.0              1.2         0.3
Cumulative      0-5         3.5             4.7         5.0
Cumulative      10 percent 70 percent       94 percent   100 percent
(percent of total) I .    I               I            I



10
Once the Grant Agreement has Len declared effective, and after receipt of a withdrawal
application, a deposit of US$200,000 (the authorized allocation) will be made into the Special
Account opened by MVOTMA in BROU. The authorized allocation is based on project
expenditures expected to be paid through the Grant in the first four months. The minimum
amount for replenishment of the Special Account would be US$50,000 equivalent. Interest
eamed on the Special Account balances, if any, would be reported separately. To expedite
project execution, there will be no limit on the share of the total grant amount disbursed through
the Special Account.
Full documentation will be required for disbursement requests for all proprietary goods (direct
contrting) and consulting services which receive prior Bank review. For all other contracts,
disbursements out of the Special Account will be made against Sttements of Expenditure (SOE),
i.e., for goods and works, including goods under the technical assistance component for
MVOTMA, for consulting firms, contacts less than US$100,000 equivalent; and for individual
consultants, contracts less than US$50,000 equivalent MVOTMA will allocate the subgrants to
subproject beneficiaries for approved expenditures (with due regard to prior review requirements)
as stipulated in subgrant agreements between MVOTMA and the subproject beneficiaries.
Retractive Financing
To avoid delay, since some of ihe beneficiaries are preparing to execute contracts prior to Grant
signature, retroactive financing would be allowed as a share of the total Grant amount already
approved by the MFEC (i.e., US$500,000 or 42 percent of the US$1,192,000 approved), for
expenditures incurred up to a maximum of one year before the Grant signing date. All cases of
retroactive financing regardless of size will require Bank review of supporting documentation
prior to disbursement.



11
Schedule C
Timetable of Key Processing Events
Time Taken to Prepare                                9 months
Prepared by                                          MVOTMA and the Bank
First Bank Mission                                   March 1994
Departure of Bank Appraisal Mission                  November 1994
Date of Negotiations                                 May 1995
Planned Date of Effectiveness                        June 1995



12
Annex
Country Program Summary
Uruguay ratified the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer on January 8,
1991 and is committed to the control and gradual phaseout of these substances. To develop a
comprehensive phaseout strategy, Uruguay with the support of the United Nations Development
Programme prepared a Country Program on Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) Phaseout in March 1993.
In 1992 Uruguay's ODS consumption was approximately 317 metric tons (mt), of which 36.9 percent
was CFC-1 1, 58.3 percent CFC-12, 1 percent CFC-1 13, 0.3 percent halons and 3.3 percent others. All
these substances are imported because Uruguay does not produce any of the ODS controlled by the MW.
ODS are mainly used in Uruay for refrigeration, air conditioning and foam products, and to a minor
extent for solvents and fire extinguishers. Without the implementation of the MP and with an estimated
annual increment rate of 1.9 percent, the estimated ODS consumption in 2010 would increase to 445 mt.
An important strategic element of the Country Program is to rely on market mechanisms to
reduce ODS demand Consequently, the Government of Uruguay will support private sector initiatives
oriented to MB implementation, instead of having a strong official intervention in management and
control. Under this approach, the public sector entities will only play a catalytic and advisory role.
Environmental management in Uruguay is carried out by the Direcci6n Nacional de Medio Ambiente
(DINAMA, National Environment Directorate) created in October 1990 within the Ministerio de
Vivienda, Ordenamiento Territorial y Medio Ambiente (Ministry of Housing, Land and Environment).
To help filfill the objectives oudined in the Country Program, the Comisi6n Tecnica Gubernamental de
Ozono (Govemmental Ozone Technical Commission) was established within DINAMA as executing unit
to identify and facilitate project implementation in the future.
In a tmree-year, first-stage period the planned actions are: (i) institutional strengthening, with the
establishment of an Advisory Committee with representatives from the private sector, the Para-statal
Quality Standards Control Organization, the University of the Republic and the Ministries of Economy
and Health; (ii) establishing and updating the legal and regulatory framework, by revising the present
norms, discussing the proposed changes and preparing new laws; (iii) implementing an Ozone Certificate
stamp for public information about the final products whose use does not deplete the ozone layer, (iv)
implementing technical sectoral training and retaining activities, and public consciousness-raising
programs; and (v) supporting investment projects in technological conversion for private enterprises to
achieve a 30 percent reduction in ODS consumption, equivalent to approximately 95 mt The two main
sectors to be addressed in this first stage are the commercial and domestic refrigeration sector, and the
foam sector. Four projects have already been approved for fimding by the Executive Committee of the
Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the NW, to eliminate the use of (i) CFC-12 as circuit
refrgerant in the production of refrigeators, cold storage chambers and glass display cases; and (ii) CFC-
11 as blowing agent in the manufacture of rigid polyurethane foams as insulation for thermal tanks.
In the medium term, new projects would involve the conversion of the air conditioning sector.
Due to its climatological conditions, Uruguay has produced and imported air conditioning equipment for
domestic, commercial, industrial, and services (hotels and hospitals) uses; repair and maintenance
activities also account for significant ODS consumption. Transport air conditioning is less significant
The Uruguayan industry related to ODS consunption is generally veTy interested in complying with all
the county's environmental commitments, aware as it is of the importance of being competitive with the



13
Argentinean and Brazilian industry. Uruguay's future technological conversion would need to take into
account the situation in neighboring countries, and thus, the development of joint projects could be
considered in the long term.



