Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
OTF GRANT NUMBER  22007
Ozone Projects Trust Fund
Grant Agreement
(Reduction of the Consumption of the
 Ozone-Depleting Substances Project)
between
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Ozone Projects
Trust Fund
Dated December 8, 1995
OTF GRANT NUMBER  22007
OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
Page  2
AGREEMENT, dated December 8, 1995, between REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL 
URUGUAY (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT, acting as Trustee of grant funds provided by Parties to the Montreal Protocol 
on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer (the Protocol) into the Ozone Projects Trust Fund 
(OTF) (the Trustee).
WHEREAS (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the Executive Directors of the Bank (the 
Resolution), established a Facility, including the OTF, to assist in the protection of the global 
environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable economic 
development;
(B)
the Parties to the Protocol have established the  Multilateral Fund (the Fund) for 
the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol to operate under the authority of the said Parties to 
provide the financing of agreed incremental costs to enable the Parties operating under paragraph 
1 of Article 5 of the Protocol to comply with control measures provided for in the Protocol;
(C)
the Executive Committee of the Fund (the Executive Committee) and the Bank 
have entered into an agreement effective on July 9, 1991, pursuant to which the Executive 
Committee has agreed to provide funds into the OTF to be administered by the Bank as Trustee 
in accordance with the provisions of the said agreement and the Resolution; and
(D)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance from the resources of 
the OTF in the financing of the Project, and the Trustee has determined that such assistance 
would be in accordance with the provisions of the Resolution; and
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend a 
grant (the OTF Grant) to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan 
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth 
in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (18) and (20), 2.02 
and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
Page  3
(v)
Article V, as Section 5.01 is modified in (b) (vi) below;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i), (k) and (l), as such 
subparagraphs (k) and (l) are modified in (b) (vii) below, 6.03, 6.04 and 
6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Section 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other than in 
Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of such term in 
Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee except that in Section 6.02, the 
term "Bank" shall also include the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the OTF Grant;
(v)
the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the OTF Grant Account; 
(vi)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for 
the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of 
goods, if such payment or import,to the knowledge of the Bank, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.";
(vii)
subparagraph (k) of Section 6.02 is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read as follows: "an extraordinary 
Page  4
situation shall have arisen in which any further disbursement under the 
OTF Grant would exceed the resources available for disbursement from 
the OTF."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, 
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth; and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Beneficiary" means any private entity within the Recipient's territory which the 
Recipient has made or proposes to make a Subgrant in order to carry out a Subproject;
(b)
"BROU" means the Bank of the Oriental Republic of Uruguay (Banco
de
la
República
Oriental
del
Uruguay
), a bank owned by the Recipient;
(c)
"COGO" means the Governmental Ozone Technical Commission (Comisión
Técnica
Gubernamental
de
Ozono
), the Project executing unit within the National Environmental 
Directorate of MVOTMA referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
(d)
"Implementation Manual" means the Recipient's manual which sets forth, inter 
alia: (i) the eligibility criteria of Subprojects; (ii) the documentation to be submitted to the 
Executive Committee or Trustee in order to review and approve a Subproject; (iii) the procedures 
to be followed by the Recipient, through MVOTMA, in reviewing Subprojects and in disbursing 
funds under Subgrants as referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; (iv) the 
technical and procurement guidelines to be followed by the Beneficiaries in carrying out 
Subprojects; and (v) the terms and conditions to be included in each Subgrant Agreement, to be 
approved as provided in Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement;
(e)
"Legal Framework" means Law No. 16.157 (Ley
No. 16.157) of the Borrower 
dated November 12, 1990 which ratified the Protocol and Law No. 16.112 (Ley
No. 16.112) of 
the Borrower dated May 30, 1990 which established MVOTMA;
(f)
"MVOTMA" means the Ministry of Housing, Land and Environment (Ministerio
de
Vivienda
, Ordenamiento
Territorial
y
Medio
Ambiente
) of the Recipient;
(g)
"ODS"means ozone-depleting substances;
(h)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(i)
"Subgrant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Recipient, 
through MVOTMA, to a Beneficiary for a Subproject under a Subgrant Agreement, out of the 
proceeds of the OTF Grant;
(j)
"Subgrant Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section 3.03 
of this Agreement; and
(k)
"Subproject" means a project, selected and prepared in accordance with the 
Implementation Manual, and reviewed and approved by the Executive Committee or the Trustee, 
as the case may be, consisting of investments and other activities eligible under the Protocol 
Page  5
which result in the reduction or elimination of ODS use or in the substitution of non-ozone 
depleting technologies for ozone depleting technologies, to be carried out by a Beneficiary and to 
be financed by a Subgrant.
ARTICLE II
The OTF Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, the OTF Grant in an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to five million Dollars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the OTF Grant may be withdrawn from the OTF Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid 
(or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be paid) by the Recipient on account of withdrawals made by 
a
Beneficiary under a Subgrant to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Subproject in respect of which the withdrawal from the OTF Grant Account is requested and; (ii) 
expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost 
of goods and services required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the OTF Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in BROU 
a
special deposit account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such later date as the Trustee 
shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Trustee shall not be obligated to make any payment under this 
Agreement except to the extent it shall have received funds for the purposes of the Project from 
the Executive Committee.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall, through MVOTMA, and with 
the assistance of COGO, carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, technical and financial practices and with due regard 
to ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry out: (i) 
Part A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Manual; and (ii) Part B of the 
Project in accordance with the program of actions referred to in Section 6.01(b) of this 
Agreement.
Page  6
(c)
Except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
not amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Implementation Manual or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the OTF Grant shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Recipient, through MVOTMA, shall enter into an agreement with each 
Beneficiary under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee (including those set forth in 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement) in order to transfer, on a grant basis, the proceeds 
of the OTF Grant allocated to such Beneficiary's Subproject and the obligation of the Beneficiary 
to carry out such Subproject.
Section 3.04. (a) The Recipient, through MVOTMA, shall exercise its rights and carry 
out its obligations under the Subgrant Agreements in such a manner so as to:
(i)
protect the interests of the Trustee and the Recipient;
(ii)
comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and
(iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project.
(b)
Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient, through MVOTMA, 
shall not amend, assign, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the Subgrant Agreements or 
any provision thereof.
Section 3.05. (a) The Recipient, through MVOTMA, shall continue to maintain and 
operate COGO with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Trustee, including, inter 
alia, the responsibility of assisting MVOTMA in: (i) providing assistance to the Beneficiaries in 
the identification, preparation, evaluation and administration of Subprojects; and (ii) preparing 
the progress reports referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement.
(b)
 The Recipient, through MVOTMA, shall ensure that COGO is at all times 
headed by an experienced professional and assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with 
qualifications satisfactory to the Trustee.
Section. 3.06. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, the Recipient, through MVOTMA, shall prepare and furnish to the Trustee 
semiannual progress reports (starting six months after this Agreement shall have entered into 
effect as provided by Section 6.02 of this Agreement) of such scope and in such detail as the 
Trustee may reasonably request with respect to the progress in the implementation of the Project 
during the semester in question.
(b)
The reports referred to in (a) above shall be furnished to the Trustee not later 
than thirty days after the termination of the semester in question.
Section 3.07. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the General 
Conditions, the Recipient, through MVOTMA, shall review jointly with the Trustee by not later 
Page  7
than eighteen months after this Agreement shall have entered into effect as provided by Section 
6.02 (a) of this Agreement, the progress made by the Recipient, through MVOTMA, in: (a) 
carrying out the Project; and (b) achieving the objectives of the Project.  Such review shall, inter 
alia, focus on analyzing the semiannual reports referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement.  As 
part of such review the Trustee may require that the Recipient prepare an action plan, satisfactory 
to the Trustee, to make adjustments in Project implementation.  If so, the Recipient shall furnish 
such action plan to the Trustee not later than thirty days after the conclusion of such review and 
shall thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried out, such action plan in accordance with its 
terms.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain records and separate accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures 
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying 
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Trustee shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information con-cerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the OTF Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the OTF 
Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Trustee's representatives to examine such records; and
Page  8
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Trustee
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that the Legal Framework or any provision thereof has 
been  amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to 
affect, in the opinion of the Trustee, the ability of 
the Recipient to carry out of the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until the Trustee has received 
satisfactory evidence that the following conditions have been met:
(a)
that the Implementation Manual, satisfactory to the Trustee, has been approved 
by the Recipient and is in full force and effect; and
(b)
that the Recipient has furnished to the Trustee a program of actions (including a 
timetable to carry out such actions), satisfactory to the Trustee, to be followed by the Recipient, 
through MVOTMA, in carrying out Part B of the Project.
Section 6.02. (a)  Except as the Trustee and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, this 
Agreement shall enter into effect on the date upon which the Trustee dispatches to the Recipient 
notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by Section 6.01 of this Agreement.
(b)
If, before the date referred to in paragraph (a) above, any event shall have 
occurred which would have entitled the Trustee to suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the OTF Grant Account if this Agreement had been effective, the Trustee may 
postpone the dispatch of the notice referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section until such event or 
events shall have ceased to exist.
Section 6.03. The date March 6, 1996 is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the OTF Grant has been fully 
disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Page  9
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of MVOTMA of the Recipient is designated as representative 
of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministerio de Vivienda, Ordenamiento
Territorial y Medio Ambiente
Zabala No. 1427
C.P. 11000
Montevideo, Uruguay
Cable address:
Telex:
MINECON
269 MINECON UY
Montevideo, Uruguay
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
  197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
  248423 (RCA),
   64145 (WUI) or
   82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
By /s/ Alvaro Diez de Medina
Authorized Representative
Page  10
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
as Trustee of the Ozone Projects Trust Fund
By /s/ Alain Colliou
Acting Country Director, Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the OTF Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the OTF Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the OTF Grant to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
OTF Grant Allocaed
% of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Subgrants
4,853,000
100% of amounts
disbursed
(2)
Goods, consultants'
147,000
80%
services and
training
under Part B
of the Project
TOTAL
5,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures:
(a)
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate 
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $500,000, may be made in respect of Category (1) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for such expenditures within 
twelve months before the date of this Agreement; and
(b)
under Category (1) of the table referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless: 
(i) the Subproject in question has been: (A) approved by the Executive Committee if the 
Subproject in question is estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; or (B) reviewed 
by the Executive Committee and approved by the Trustee if the Subproject in question is 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $500,000, such approvals to be made in accordance 
Page  11
with the Implementation Manual; and (ii) the Recipient has entered into a Subgrant Agreement 
with the respective Beneficiary concerning the Subproject in question and has furnished to the 
Trustee a signed copy of such Subgrant Agreement.
3.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the OTF 
Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to the Trustee for 
deposit into the OTF Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or the portion 
thereof as specified by the Trustee.
4.
The Trustee may require withdrawals from the OTF Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods and works to 
be awarded under Part B.1 of Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (b) goods under Part B 
of the Project; (c) the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent; and (d) the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Trustee shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to support the Recipient's program to reduce ODS 
consumption by about 30% to 40% with respect to the Recipient's ODS consumption levels in 
1992, through the provision of technical assistance and technology conversion to the 
Beneficiaries; and (b) to strengthen the institutional framework in the Recipient's territory in 
order to assist the Beneficiaries in the identification, preparation, evaluation and administration 
of Subprojects.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
:
 Provision of Subgrants.
Part B
:
Strengthening of COGO in order to assist MVOTMA in providing assistance to the 
Beneficiaries in the identification, preparation, evaluation and administration of Subprojects, 
including the provision of training and the acquisition and utilization of goods required therefor.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  12
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Goods (other than proprietary goods) and works to be financed out of the proceeds of 
Subgrants shall be procured in accordance with commercial practices satisfactory to the Trustee.
2.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature, to be financed out of the proceeds of Subgrants, 
may, with the Trustee's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with paragraph 3.7 (c) of the 
Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods under Part B of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of national shopping procedures in accordance with paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured under Part B.2 of this Section, the 
procedures sets forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part , the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.  
Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out the Project, the Recipient shall employ or 
cause to be employed consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Trustee.  Such consultants shall be selected in accordance 
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Trustee on the basis of the "Guidelines for the 
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants Guidelines).  For complex, time-based 
assignments, the Recipient shall employ or cause to be employed such consultants under 
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Trustee, with 
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Trustee. Where no relevant standard contract 
documents have been issued by the Trustee, the Recipient shall use or cause to be used other 
standard forms agreed with the Trustee.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of the 
Consultants Guidelines requiring prior Trustee review or approval of budgets, short lists, 
Page  13
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not 
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Trustee review shall not 
apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting 
firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Trustee; (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
Section III
. Special 
Provisions
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Consultants Guidelines, the following principles and rules of procurement shall expressly govern 
all procurement of consultants' services (under Part B of the Project) referred to in Section II of 
this Schedule:
1.
Foreign consultants shall not, as a condition for participating in the selection process, be 
required to enter into a joint venture agreement with local consultants.
2.
Foreign consultants shall be selected from those included in a short list on the basis of 
evaluation criteria and terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee.
3.
The prices of contracts over one year duration may be adjusted.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
OTF Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $200,000 to be 
withdrawn from the OTF Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  14
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Trustee a request or requests for a deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the OTF Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Trustee the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
para-graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the OTF Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Trustee from the OTF Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, 
at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the OTF Grant Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Trustee, within the period of 
time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the OTF Grant 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the OTF Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Project, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into 
by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Page  15
Thereafter, withdrawal from the OTF Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the OTF Grant allocated to the eligible Categories for the Project shall follow such procedures as 
the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Trustee, 
the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: (A) provide such additional evidence 
as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so 
request, refund to the Trustee) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Trustee into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to the Trustee such outstanding 
amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the OTF Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
Procedures and Terms and Conditions of Subgrants
1.
Each Subgrant will finance up to 80% of the total cost of a Subproject.
2.
Subgrants shall be provided on terms whereby the Recipient, through MVOTMA, shall 
obtain, through the Subgrant Agreements, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Trustee 
and the Recipient, including the right to:
(a)
require the Beneficiary to carry out and operate the Subproject in accordance 
with the technical guidelines set forth in the Implementation Manual, and with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound financial, managerial, environmental and ecological 
standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that:
(i)
the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the OTF 
Grant shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services shall be used 
Page  16
exclusively in furtherance of the objectives of the Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Trustee or the Recipient, if 
the Trustee or the Recipient shall so request, the goods, works and plants included in the 
Subproject, the operation thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that:
(i)
the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers 
such insurance against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be 
consistent with sound business practices; and
(ii)
without any limitation to the foregoing, such insurance shall cover the 
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods 
financed out of the proceeds of the OTF Grant to the place of use or 
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency 
freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Trustee shall reasonably request relating to the 
foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial condition of the Beneficiary and to 
the benefits derived from the Subproject; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of the 
OTF Grant upon failure by the Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under the Subgrant 
Agreement.
