                                      Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2488



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                 (TF-53793 TF-92099 TF-93330 TF-96598)



                                        ON

                             TRUST FUND GRANTS

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$28.4 MILLION


                                      TO THE

                  PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION

           (FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY)

                                       FOR A

                   SOCIAL SAFETY NET REFORM PROJECT



                               December 20, 2012




Human Development Sector
MNCO4
Middle East and North Africa Region
               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

      (Exchange Rate Effective: December 17, 2012)

          Currency Unit = New Israeli Shekel (NIS)
                    NIS 1.00 = US$0.26
                    US$1.00 = NIS3.79

                      FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1 - December 31

          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

    AF       Additional Financing
  CCT        Conditional Cash Transfer
  CTP        Cash Transfer Program
   DA        Designated Account
    EC       European Commission
  ESSP       Emergency Services Support Project
   EU        European Union
   FM        Financial Management
  FMR        Financial Management Report
FPCR TF      Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund
FPCR AF      Food Price Crisis Response Additional Financing
   FPI       Food Price Index
    FY       Fiscal Year
  GDP        Gross Domestic Product
 GFRP        Global Food Crisis Response Program
  GOI        Government of Israel
 IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
  ICR        Implementation Completion and Results Report
  IDA        International Development Association
   IFR       Interim Financial Report
   ISN       Interim Strategy Note
   ISR       Implementation Status and Results Report
    IT       Information Technology
 MDTF        Multi Donor Trust Fund
  M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
 MENA        Middle East and North Africa
  MIS        Management Information System
MOEHE        Ministry of Education and Higher Education
  MOF        Ministry of Finance
 MOH         Ministry of Health
 MOSA        Ministry of Social Affairs
 MOPT        Ministry of Post and Telecommunications
  MTR        Mid-Term Review
   OM        Operations Manual
    PA       Palestinian Authority
 PAD        Project Appraisal Document
 PCBS       Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics
 PCU        Project Coordination Unit
 PECS       Palestinian Household Expenditure and Consumption
            Survey
  PLCS      Palestine Living Condition Survey
  PLO       Palestine Liberation Organization
  PMT       Proxy Means Test
  PMU       Project Management Unit
 PNCTP      Palestinian National Cash Transfer Program
   PNP      Palestinian National Plan (also referred to as National
            Development Plan or NDP)
  PRDP      Palestinian Reform and Development Program
   QAG      Quality Assurance Group
   RFP      Request for Proposal
    SA      Special Account
   SHC      Special Hardship Case
   SOE      Statement of Expenditure
    SP      Social Protection
   SPSS     Social Protection Sector Strategy
   SSN      Social Safety Net
  SSNRP     Social Safety Net Reform Project
SSNRP-AF    Additional Financing to the SSNRP
    TA      Technical Assistance
  TFGA      Trust Fund Grant Agreement
 TFGWB      Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
   TOR      Terms of Reference
   UCT      Unconditional Cash Transfer
 UNRWA      United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine
            Refugees in the Near East
 USAID      United States Agency for International Development
  WA        Withdrawal Application
  WBG       West Bank and Gaza
WBGCTP      West Bank and Gaza Cash Transfer Project
  WFP       World Food Programme

    Vice President:            Inger Andersen
    Country Director:          Mariam J. Sherman
    Sector Manager:            Yasser El-Gammal
    Project Team Leader:       Samira Ahmed-Hillis
    ICR Team Leader:           Samira Ahmed-Hillis
                                       WEST BANK AND GAZA
                                     Social Safety Net Reform Project

                                                     CONTENTS

Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring
 I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design ..............................................1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ...............................................5
3. Assessment of Outcomes ...........................................................................................11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .........................................................24
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................25
6. Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................30
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ...........32
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing...........................................................................33
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ..................................................................................35
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................40
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .............41
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................44
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ...................................................45
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................46
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................60
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................61
Annex 10. Overview of Reform Efforts and Achievements under the SSNRP ............64
MAP...............................................................................................................................75
                                    A. Basic Information
                                                                            GZ-Social Safety Net
      Country:           West Bank and Gaza           Project Name:
                                                                              Reform Project
                                                                               TF-53793,TF-
     Project ID:                P081477           L/C/TF Number(s):         92099,TF-93330,TF-
                                                                                  96598
     ICR Date:               12/20/2012                  ICR Type:               Core ICR
                                                                              PALESTINIAN
                                                                               LIBERATION
 Lending Instrument:              SIL                    Borrower:
                                                                             ORGANIZATION
                                                                                  (PLO)
   Original Total
                            USD 28.40M            Disbursed Amount:            USD 28.36M
   Commitment:
  Revised Amount:           USD 28.36M
                                Environmental Category: C
                           Implementing Agencies: MOF, MOSA
                         Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

                                          B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
    Process              Date               Process          Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:        05/20/2003        Effectiveness:        07/31/2004         08/04/2004
  Appraisal:           02/08/2004       Restructuring(s):                         06/19/2007
   Approval:           06/03/2004       Mid-term Review:                          02/25/2007
                                            Closing:           12/31/2008         06/30/2012

                                   C. Ratings Summary
                              C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
                 Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
       Risk to Development Outcome:                                  High
             Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
           Borrower Performance:                                 Satisfactory


            C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings              Borrower              Ratings
                            Moderately
  Quality at Entry:                              Government:          Satisfactory
                          Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Highly Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                               Agency/Agencies:
    Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                       Moderately Satisfactory                        Satisfactory
   Performance:                                 Performance:
              C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                               Indicators                                Rating
       Performance                                  (if any)
Potential Problem Project                      Quality at Entry
                                  Yes                            Moderately Satisfactory
  at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                                  Yes                                     None
      time (Yes/No):                          Supervision (QSA):
     DO rating before
                              Satisfactory
 Closing/Inactive status:

                              D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                          Original           Actual
     Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                            10                 8
Other social services                                        90                92




     Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Child health                                                 14                 -
Education for all                                            14                 -
Other public sector governance                               14                 8
Social risk mitigation                                       29                 -
Social safety nets                                           29                92

                                     E. Bank Staff
      Positions                     At ICR                        At Approval
    Vice President:             Inger Andersen                Christiaan Poortman
   Country Director:           Mariam J. Sherman                 Nigel Roberts
   Sector Manager:             Yasser El-Gammal                 George Schieber
 Project Team Leader:         Samira Ahmed Hillis       David Steel/Mario Antonio Zelaya
  ICR Team Leader:            Samira Ahmed Hillis
 ICR Primary Author:               Paul Geli
                               F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The immediate objective was to mitigate the impact of the present social and economic crisis on
the most vulnerable, and to protect the human capital of poor children in the West Bank and Gaza
(WBG). The second objective was to strengthen the institutional capacity of MOSA in order to
improve the transparency, efficiency, and effectiveness of the Special Hardship Case (SHC)
program, its main social assistance program.


Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The first objective was to mitigate the impact of the continued socio-economic crisis on a subset
of the poorest and most vulnerable households. The second objective was to strengthen the
institutional capacity of MOSA to manage cash transfer programs. The primary objective would
be achieved by implementing a pilot, incentive-based cash transfer mechanism with improved
targeting modalities that would contribute to improving the living conditions of beneficiaries.


                                     (a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target    Formally        Actual Value
                                             Values (from      Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval        Target        Completion or
                                              documents)       Values         Target Years
                 Mitigate the impact of the continued socio-economic crisis on a subset of the
  Indicator 1
                                   poorest and most vulnerable households
                                          Beneficiary living               Beneficiary living
                      Not available            conditions                    conditions (i.e.,
     Value
                                            improve due to       Not       standard of living)
(quantitative or
                                          timely receipts of Applicable     improved due to
  qualitative)
                                            cash payments                   timely receipt of
                                                                             cash payments.
 Date achieved          6/30/2007              6/30/2012                       6/30/2012
   Comments Benefit payments are based on the PA objective of ‘bridging 50% of the poverty
 (including % gap’. With more money, households will have a higher ‘standard of living’.
 achievement)
                   Primary school enrollment rates of children of beneficiary households
  Indicator 2
                                           maintained at 90 percent
                                                                               No longer a
     Value
                      80–85 percent          90–95 percent       Not          performance
(quantitative or
                                                              Applicable indicator after the
  qualitative)
                                                                           2007 restructuring.
 Date achieved          9/30/2004              6/30/2012                       6/30/2012
   Comments The ranges of 80–85 and 90–95 are taken from the 2004 PAD.
 (including %
 achievement)
                                              Original Target    Formally        Actual Value
                                                Values (from      Revised         Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                  approval         Target       Completion or
                                                 documents)        Values        Target Years
                   Percentage of beneficiaries satisfied with program performance reaches 90
   Indicator 3
                                                        percent
                                              At least 90 % of                Most beneficiaries
                                              beneficiaries are               of the CTP (funded
                                                satisfied with               by the World Bank,
      Value             Not available              program          Not       EU, and PA) were
 (quantitative or                               performance      Applicable    satisfied with the
   qualitative)                                confirmed by a                  program (84% in
                                                 beneficiary                 West Bank and 70%
                                              assessment at the                    in Gaza).
                                             end of the Project
  Date achieved                                   6/30/2012                        6/30/2012
    Comments The 2012 Targeting Assessment of the CTP found that the majority reported
  (including % being satisfied with MOSA and the type of assistance provided, but also reported
  achievement) that they would prefer more support.
   Indicator 4                    Beneficiaries of safety net programs (number)
      Value
 (quantitative or       Not available          Not Applicable       Not            750,447*
   qualitative)                                                  Applicable
  Date achieved          9/30/2004                6/30/2012                        6/30/2012
    Comments Of this number, 390,028 are in the West Bank and 360,419 are in Gaza.
  (including % Note: this core sector indicator was added in June 2012.
  achievement)
   Indicator 5        Beneficiaries of safety net programs – Number of female beneficiaries
      Value
 (quantitative or       Not available          Not Applicable       Not              40,552
   qualitative)                                                  Applicable
  Date achieved          9/30/2004                6/30/2012                        6/30/2012
Comments          In June 2012, this was included as a core sector indicator, but the only figure
(including % available (40,552) is the number of female-headed households (and not the
achievement) number of female beneficiaries).
   Indicator 6         Beneficiaries of safety net programs - Unconditional cash transfers
                                                       (number)
      Value                                                         Not
 (quantitative or         120,000              Not Applicable    Applicable         538,520
   qualitative)
  Date achieved          9/30/2004                6/30/2012                        6/30/2012
    Comments Number of persons in households receiving cash assistance from the entire CTP
  (including % (funded by the World Bank, EU, and PA).
  achievement) Note: This core sector indicator was added in June 2012.
                                           Original Target   Formally        Actual Value
                                            Values (from     Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value
                                              approval        Target         Completion or
                                             documents)       Values         Target Years
  Indicator 7     Beneficiaries of safety net programs – Other social assistance programs
                                                  (number)
     Value           Not available         Not Applicable       Not             211,927
 (quantitative or                                           Applicable
   qualitative)
  Date achieved         9/30/2004             6/30/2012                        6/30/2012
Comments          Number of social safety net beneficiaries (not including beneficiaries of the
(including % CTP).
achievement) Note: This core sector indicator was added in June 2012.


                           (b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                              Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                 approval                       Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                        Target Years
                   At least 90 percent of beneficiaries are in the lowest quintile of applicants
  Indicator 1
                                      based on the proxy means test results.
                                             At least 90% of
                                                  SSNRP                         90% of SSNRP
                 Only 48% of beneficiaries      beneficiary                    beneficiaries are
     Value
                    of the existing SHC     households are in        Not       eligible—i.e., are
(quantitative or
                  program are amongst the the lowest quintile Applicable       falling below the
  qualitative)
                            poor.          of applicants based                  extreme poverty
                                             on proxy means                           line.
                                                test results.
 Date achieved            9/30/2004              6/30/2012                         6/30/2012
                 Based on a review of 10% of beneficiary households in March 2009. Also, a
   Comments
                 2012 Targeting Assessment of the entire CTP found that 70% of program
 (including %
                 beneficiaries are extremely poor and Bank funds are used to support the poorest
 achievement)
                 households in the program.
  Indicator 2        New targeting system completed and improved MIS system installed
     Value          Ad-hoc targeting and Targeting system                      Targeting system
(quantitative or     basic MIS system.         and MIS are           Not          and MIS are
  qualitative)                                 operational.      Applicable       operational.
 Date achieved           9/30/20004              6/30/2012                         6/30/2012
   Comments Improvements in targeting (with fewer errors than those found in programs
 (including % considered among the best in the world) are one of the major achievements of the
 achievement) project.
                    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                           Actual
      Date ISR
No.                          DO                       IP               Disbursements
      Archived
                                                                       (USD millions)
 1    12/08/2004         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 1.00
                                                Moderately
 2    04/29/2005       Satisfactory                                          1.00
                                              Unsatisfactory
 3    12/30/2005   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           1.05
                                                Moderately
 4    05/30/2006      Unsatisfactory                                         1.05
                                              Unsatisfactory
 5    12/28/2006      Unsatisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory           1.05
 6    06/22/2007      Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                 2.17
 7    07/25/2007      Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                 2.17
 8    01/16/2008   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                  2.67
 9    10/28/2008       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  6.86
10    04/16/2009       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  8.36
11    12/29/2009   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory          16.93
12    06/29/2010       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 23.97
13    01/14/2011       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 27.12
14    03/29/2011       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 28.36
15    12/10/2011       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 28.36
16    06/30/2012       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 28.36


                             H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions

                                                           Project    could     not     be
                                                           implemented      as    planned
                                                           because design was too
                                                           complicated and inappropriate
                                                           for WBG’s conditions on the
 06/19/2007        Yes         U        U      2.17        ground; in addition, PA and
                                                           donor funds were not available.

                                                           The PDOs and outcome / output
                                                           targets were revised, and the
                                                           project scope was reduced.
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.1.1 In 2003, despite initial recovery on social and economic indicators since the second
intifada which began in the fall of 2000, the global economic crisis was having a serious
negative impact on household welfare in the West Bank and Gaza (WBG). The number
of poor had about tripled (from 650,000 to 1,900,000) between 2000 and 2003. The
poverty rate was higher in Gaza at 75 percent compared to 50 percent in the West Bank.
In addition, the poor were getting poorer with 16 percent unable to afford the cost of
basic food and non-food subsistence, which required a minimum of US$1.50 per day.
Unemployment had also increased from 10 percent in September 2000 to 30 percent in
2004, the year in which the SSNRP became effective.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

1.2.1 According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), 1 the Social Safety Net
Reform Project’s (SSNRP) immediate objective was to “mitigate the impact of the
present social and economic crisis on the most vulnerable, and to protect the human
capital of poor children in WBG.? The second objective was to “strengthen the
institutional capacity of the Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA) in order to improve the
transparency, efficiency, and effectiveness of the Special Hardship Case (SHC), its main
social assistance program.?

1.2.2 The PAD listed thirteen outcome/impact indicators (5 for health/nutrition, 4 for
education, 1 for awareness and 3 for MOSA Institutional strengthening) and 10 output
indicators.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

1.3.1 On June 19, 2007, the SSNRP was restructured and the PDOs were amended to
read as follows: “The objectives of the Project are to: (i) mitigate the impact of the
continued socio-economic crisis on a subset of the poorest and most vulnerable
households; and (ii) strengthen MOSA’s institutional capacity to manage cash transfer
programs.? The primary objective would be achieved by implementing a pilot incentive-
based cash transfer mechanism with improved targeting modalities that would contribute
to improving the living conditions of beneficiaries.




1
 In the Trust Fund Grant Agreement of July 19, 2004, the wording of the PDOs is slightly different, but the
substance is the same: “The objectives of the Project are to: (i) protect and enhance human capital of
children from the poorest households in the West Bank and Gaza; and (ii) strengthen MOSA’s institutional
capacity needed to assist in efficiently and effectively carrying out the SHC Program.?


                                                    1
1.3.2 According to the Memorandum and Recommendation of the President for
Restructuring dated May 16, 2007, restructuring of the project was being requested since
the initial grant amount had not leveraged sufficient resources to achieve the original
PDOs. 2 In addition, the limited capacity of MOSA and other social sector ministries had
prevented the application and verification of program conditionality among beneficiaries
which was an essential part of the conditional cash transfer (CCT) feature of the original
project.

1.3.3 The results framework and the arrangements for results monitoring were revised,
with a small number of intermediate outcome and output indicators which are included in
the Data Sheet. The SSNRP had three additional financings (AFs); one was funded by the
Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank (TFGWB) which became effective in 2008 and the
other two by the Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund (FPCR TF) which became
effective in 2009 and 2010. Each AF maintained the PDOs of the restructured SSNRP.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1 The original project only targeted children within the most vulnerable households
(i.e., first decile—the poorest 10 percent of households). Given the socio-economic crisis
at the time, MOSA’s resources for its SHC program and the forthcoming SSNRP did not
allow it to provide cash transfers to all eligible households. Therefore, under the SSNRP,
the intended beneficiaries were extremely poor households (particularly those with a
large number of children) that had not received benefits from another program and met
the project’s eligibility criteria in terms of school attendance and visits to health facilities.
Based on an optimistic assumption of available resources, the PAD estimated that the
SHC, strengthened with SSNRP support, would provide assistance to approximately
180,000 people living in the poorest 30,000 households in WBG.

1.4.2 When the project was restructured (prior to any AFs), the main beneficiaries were a
subset of the poorest and most vulnerable households, as certified by MOSA with its
improved targeting system. The number of beneficiary households that the Project aimed
to reach was reduced from the original design of over 30,000 households to a maximum
of 5,000 households in response to the limited funds available to the project after Hamas
won the elections in 2006. However, under the two AFs provided by the FPCR TF AFs
(in the amounts of US$5 million and US$3.4 million), cash transfers were scaled up in
terms of reach providing two one-time payments to 25,000 households in WBG (this
figure includes those approximately 4,500/5,000 households who had been regularly
receiving cash transfers who also received two one-time payments from the FPCR TF
AF).




2
  According to the PAD, the initial grant (for the SSNRP in 2004) expected to leverage US$57.5 million
from the Palestinian Authority (PA) and US$15.0 million from other donors to reach over 30,000
households. However, these resources did not materialize. With the Trust Fund (TF) grant of US$10.0
million, the project would reach at most 5,000 households.


                                                  2
1.4.3 The main beneficiaries throughout the project life included: 1) approximately
4,500/5,000 households receiving regular payments as well as the two one-time payments
from the FPCR TF AF; and 2) 20,000 households which were provided with two one-
time payments from the FPCR TF AF in 2009 and 2010 (but who did not receive regular
payments). In addition, other project beneficiaries include those beneficiary households
who were receiving cash transfers (funded by the EU and PA) throughout the project life.
One major achievement of the project was the Bank’s effective use of its leverage to
guide donor funding (most notably that of the EU which was by far the largest funder of
cash transfers) to adopt the same targeting mechanism and payment modalities that were
supported under the SSNRP. While Bank funding was significantly smaller than that
provided by the EU, its leverage had an impact on the development and approach of the
cash transfer program that exists today, which has grown significantly in recent years –
currently providing funding to approximately 95,000 households. In addition, the Bank
played an active role in the coordination and harmonization among donors. For instance,
coordination in the area of social assistance has been strengthened among interested
partners, i.e., the World Food Program (WFP) and United Nations Relief and Work
Agency (UNRWA) and United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF). They, along with
others, are relying on the CTP unified database to identify beneficiaries for their
programs and to improve their targeting approaches.

1.5 Original Components

1.5.1 According to the Trust Fund Grant Agreement (TFGA) dated July 19, 2004, the
Project would consist of the following parts:

Part A or Component 1: Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) Grants: Provision of
Health/Nutrition Grants, Education Grants, and Awareness Grants to beneficiaries.

Part B or Component 2: Capacity-Building: Provision of consultants’ services to
strengthen MOSA’s capacity to develop and implement an effective social assistance
strategy, provision of goods and carrying out of an inter-ministerial training program to
facilitate the carrying out of the Project and the enhanced SHC Program, strengthening
MOSA’s Management Information System (MIS), and provision of consultants’ services
to MOSA to assist in the design and implementation of a public awareness and promotion
campaign.

Part C or Component 3: Project Management: Provision of goods and consultants’
services to assist MOSA’s General Directorates responsible for the implementation of the
Project and provision of consultants’ services to assist MOSA in monitoring the
implementation of the Project and evaluating its developmental impact.

1.6 Revised Components

1.6.1 When the SSNRP was restructured, the description of Part A or Component 1 was
changed to “Pilot Cash Transfers to Poor Households – Provision of cash grants to




                                           3
support poor households selected using an appropriate targeting system,? 3 instead of the
provision of health/nutrition, education, and/or awareness grants to beneficiaries. The
beneficiary households would no longer be required to meet the original conditions
related to education and health in order to receive cash transfers; however, MOSA would
continue to monitor primary school attendance of children from beneficiary households.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

1.7.1 Following the restructuring, there were three AFs, as described earlier. The first AF
came from the TFGWB, 4 and the second and third AFs came from the FPCR TF (part of
the Global Food Price Crisis Response Program – GFRP). All of the AFs included the
same PDOs as the restructured SSNRP, but their funds only financed cash transfers.
Capacity-building, project administration and management continued to be financed by
the original SSNRP grant. The following table provides an overview of the allocation of
funding for the original SSNRP and the three AFs:


    Component / Additional          Original        AF1TFG        AF2FPCR            AF3FPCR
                                                                                                     Total
       Financing (AF)               TFGWB*            WB             TF**               TF
                                                                 US$ Million
1. Cash Transfers                      7.5             10.0           5.0                3.4          25.9
2. Capacity Building                   1.6              0.0           0.0                0.0           1.6
3. Project Administration              0.9              0.0           0.0                0.0           0.9
TOTAL                                  10.0            10.0           5.0                3.4          28.4
*TFGWB = Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
**FPCR TF = Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund (from the Global Food Price Crisis Response Program (GFRP)

1.7.2 On June 15, 2010, there was one reallocation of the proceeds of the original grant
(US$10.0 million). Benefit payments (cash transfers) were not affected, but there was an
increase in the amount allocated to operating costs because the project was extended for
three and a half years and none of the AFs supported operating costs, which made it
necessary to allocate more funds to this category. These costs covered operating costs for
the original project and the three AF which also included, for example, the transportation
and communication costs for the social workers for the regular recertification of
beneficiary households, as part of the reform process. Also, in April 2008, the TFGA for
the original SSNRP was amended to extend the closing date from December 31, 2008 to
June 30, 2012.




3
  In the Trust Fund Grant Agreement (TFGA), the table for allocation of the proceeds of the grant was also
revised, with Category 1 being renamed “Pilot Cash Transfers.?
4
  Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank (TFGWB): Status, Strategy and Request for Replenishment (R-
2003-0193 [IDA R2003-2008] which was approved by the Board on December 2, 2003 and is the
equivalent of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS).


                                                      4
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

Assessment of Project Design

2.1.1 According to the PAD, the project: (i) took into account lessons learned from
demand-side programs that complement supply-side interventions in education and health
as well as providing incentives to the poor to actually use these services; (ii) was “simple
in design? as it included modest cash transfer and institutional strengthening components;
and (iii) included procedures recommended for fiduciary compliance that were simple
and similar to those that had been used before in the ministries involved with the Project.
The PAD also assumed that the Palestinian Authority (PA) would contribute US$57.5
million to the SSNRP, and that there would be a financing gap of US$15.0 million. The
PAD’s positive view of the SSNRP design was echoed in a QEA7 assessment in 2005
which stated that the CCT design was considered technically sound and had been
successful in other developing countries. According to the PAD, the project was
designed to “respond to the particular situation in the West Bank and Gaza? and to
“support the poor directly in a situation where the human capital stock is being
‘decapitalized’ and which is one of humanitarian crisis.? The 2005 QAG also noted that
“preliminary consultations with the poor reveal that it is not only the security situation
that precludes their children’s regular school attendance, but the fact that many have no
reliable income source? and a CCT Project is “well suited to the circumstances in the
West Bank and Gaza, and would also be potentially attractive to donors.?

2.1.2 During project preparation, the idea of increasing the level of benefits to existing
beneficiaries was rejected because “it did not address the issues of protection and
promotion of human capital, and no donor including IDA [the International Development
Association] is willing or able under its procedures to finance straight cash transfers. In
addition, not all current beneficiaries were from the lowest consumption decile.? The
possibility of simply expanding MOSA’s existing programs was rejected because it
would have been duplicating programs being carried out by other partners (e.g., non-
governmental organizations (NGOs), ministries, charitable associations, and private
organizations). Finally, the idea of expanding existing workfare programs was also
rejected because it would not reach the most vulnerable households, would not address
the issue of protection and promotion of human capital, and was being funded by other
donors.

2.1.3 There were four problems with the initial project design.

   1. The design was somewhat complex. First, there were several ministries and
      organizations involved given the CCT feature: (e.g., Ministries of Health (MOH),
      Education and Higher Education (MOEHE), Finance (MOF), Post and
      Telecommunications (MOPT) as well as the Palestinian Central Bureau of



                                             5
       Statistics (PCBS), and United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine
       Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA)). Second, there were three different types of
       CCT grants (i.e., health/nutrition, education, and awareness) which had a
       somewhat complicated scale of benefit payments, and third, the selected
       indicators had no baseline values and imprecise targets. 5
    2. The CCT design (linking benefit payments to the use of education and health
       services) was not appropriate in the WBG context since: (i) the large majority of
       children, even those from the poorest households, were enrolled in school; and (ii)
       there was a high demand for such services but there was also an inadequate
       supply.
    3. The assumption that the PA would contribute US$57.5 million to the SSNRP was
       unrealistic given the financial difficulties the PA was facing at the time.
    4. Capacity-building was not given adequate attention given the complexity of the
       Project and responsibilities of MOSA. While the amount (US$1.6 million) was
       substantial, the activities that needed to be carried out with this money had not
       really been identified or developed.

2.1.4 Despite these limitations, the Project’s emphasis, both before and after restructuring,
on supporting MOSA’s institutional capacity-building as well as its efforts to manage and
implement an effective cash transfer program was important. That was important in
guiding the Bank’s approach to fostering important reforms related to an improved
targeting mechanism, adopting a unified approach to cash transfers, strengthening
coordination in the social protection sector, and designing and developing a strategy
related to MOSA’s cash transfer activities and social protection efforts (see Annex 10 for
detailed information on the SSNRP’s role in reforms of the social safety net).

Government Commitment

2.1.5 The Minister of Finance made a formal request for the project to IDA after the
idea/concept of the SSNRP was reviewed and discussed by the MOF, MOSA, MOEHE,
and MOH. Government ownership of the Project was reconfirmed on several occasions
during project preparation and appraisal. According to the PAD, the PA’s strong interest
in and commitment to the Project’s objectives were driven by a concern with the
deteriorating socioeconomic situation in WBG, particularly affecting poor households,
and by the SSNRP’s potential to provide financial resources in a manner consistent with
the PA’s overall human development and social risk management strategy. A modernized
social safety net was an important element of that strategy.




5
 Most targets had a range, such as 1–5% or 2–5%, but sometimes as wide as 2–15%. Also, on baseline the
PAD dated April 5, 2004 included the following statement: “The baseline values are being developed
during a pilot-targeting phase where information will be collected in ten governorates in the West Bank and
Gaza during January–April 2003.?


                                                    6
Assessment of Risk

2.1.6 The overall risk was rated “High.? Major risks were related to the sensitive security
situation in WBG, delays in receiving donor co-financing and government counterpart
funding, and to the inadequate capacity of participating ministries and agencies to
effectively implement the Project. Although these risks did materialize, in the end, the
Project was carried out without formal co-financing, counterpart funding was no longer
required, and the MOEHE and MOH were no longer “participating ministries.?

2.2 Implementation

2.2.1 Following project effectiveness on August 4, 2004, the initial pace of
implementation was very slow as a result of flaws in the project design. As a matter of
fact, the first CCT Grants were not made until July/August 2006 to a pilot group of only
1,664 households, which was 24 months after effectiveness. Progress toward the
achievement of the PDOs was “Unsatisfactory? during most of this time period. The mid-
term review (MTR) of the SSNRP carried out in February 2007 concluded that the
project needed to be restructured from a CCT to a simplified cash transfer mechanism
given the WBG circumstances. A formal restructuring of the SSNRP was approved by
the Bank’s Board of Directors in June 2007. After restructuring, the project’s
implementation progress (IP) ratings steadily increased as a result of the establishment of
an effective cash transfer system that used a poverty targeting system (based on a proxy
means test formula with 31 variables), as well as a uniform method of determining the
benefit level and the same payment modality (i.e., providing transfers through
commercial banks which was much more effective than the prior procedure using post
offices, which were not present in all areas and were vulnerable to closures and workers’
strikes).

2.2.2 The main factors beyond the control of the Government or implementing agencies
that influenced project implementation and ultimately the project outcomes can be
summarized as follows:

   a) Political events ushered in a period of uncertainty in WBG. Hamas’ victory in the
      January 2006 election led to a stalemate in political dialogue between the PA and
      donors, who then suspended direct financial and technical aid to the PA. The
      economic and fiscal crisis was exacerbated by the decision of the Government of
      Israel (GOI) to withhold the revenue clearance it collects on behalf of the PA.
      These political events resulted in a need to establish the MOSA presence in the
      West Bank (because until this point the central Ministry was in Gaza) and to hire
      and train new staff since most of the MOSA staff in Gaza could not move to the
      West Bank.
   b) A major conflict occurred in Gaza in December 2008–January 2009, after which
      GOI imposed an unprecedented blockade on Gaza. Restrictions on the movements
      of people and goods between the West Bank and Gaza (including restrictions on
      the entry of cash into Gaza for nine months) because of the closures imposed by
      GOI contributed to project implementation delays. In addition, the internal
      political rift between the two dominant Palestinian factions (Fatah and Hamas)


                                            7
       which started in mid-2007 fueled tensions and resulted in intermittent violence,
       especially in Gaza. Because of the closures and the political climate, MOSA staff
       encountered great difficulties verifying and certifying eligible households in Gaza,
       which meant that, compared to the West Bank, Gaza households may not have
       received their fair share of the program benefits.

2.2.3 In addition to project restructuring, the factors under Government control that
influenced project implementation and ultimately the project outcomes included:

   a) The strong partnership between the PA, the European Union (EU), and the Bank
      promoting coordination of social protection approaches and activities.
   b) The three AFs which gave the PA the opportunity to scale up its existing safety
      net instruments to demonstrate its capacity and commitment to assist the poorest
      and most vulnerable in WBG.
   c) MOSA’s weak institutional capacity, which was somewhat strengthened as a
      result of MOSA’s efforts to improve its management and train its staff, including
      hundreds of social workers operating in the field.
   d) The considerable technical assistance (TA) provided by the EU as well as the
      significant funding it provided for cash transfer payments.
   e) The use and official endorsement of a new and objective targeting mechanism for
      cash transfer programs (as well as other activities in the sector) which relied on a
      PMT formula developed and updated on the basis of recent poverty data.
      Eligibility reviews, for example, confirmed that beneficiaries of the program had
      been selected in accordance with the agreed-upon procedures and criteria, had
      received the money, and had not received cash transfers from other programs.
   f) The commitment and strong leadership of the PA in introducing and officially
      endorsing this new targeting mechanism, developing and implementing this
      program as a part of the overall social protection sector strategy, and building
      public understanding and confidence in the PA’s will and capacity to provide
      assistance.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design

2.3.1 The PAD included a long list of indicators. For most indicators, there were no
baseline figures, and the targets and basis for assessing the project outcome/impact were
not very clear. For these reasons, monitoring the project as described in the PAD was
bound to be cumbersome. An external firm would be contracted to carry out the
operational monitoring and to measure outcome indicators, while beneficiary
communities would engage in participatory monitoring. As discussed in Section 2.1,
linking cash transfers to compliance with certain conditions/activities related to education
and health was not relevant to the situation in WBG at the time. The SSNRP’s M&E
initial design (particularly those indicators focusing on the CCT program) was not
satisfactory.




                                             8
M&E Implementation

2.3.2 The original M&E system did not work. In light of this, in June 2007 the project
was restructured from a CCT to a simplified cash transfer project (with no conditionality).
The revised results framework introduced at restructuring was also adopted for the three
AFs.

2.3.3 Over time, MOSA has developed a fully operational Management Information
System (MIS) with various capacities. The MIS network links the 17 district (muderias)
offices in WBG to the central level. This system is currently used in various aspects of
managing and administering the merged program (the SHC and SSNRP were merged in
2010 to become the Palestinian National Cash Transfer Program or CTP). For the CTP,
information on beneficiary households (e.g., household size, age, assets, health status,
and education level) collected by trained MOSA social workers using a standardized
application form is entered into the MIS at the district level. The MIS (which is web-
based) is updated regularly based on information provided by the PCBS and MOSA
social workers. MOSA then uses its poverty-targeting database (one component of the
MIS) to identify CTP beneficiaries and to rank households according to their poverty
level. This system allows MOSA to obtain real-time information on the number and
location of beneficiary households and also to track households’ application and
enrollment status.

M&E Utilization

2.3.4 The M&E system and household data are used to inform decision-making related to
planning and resource allocation for the sector. The poverty-targeting database is used by
MOSA to target, manage, and coordinate the CTP along with all other social protection
services and assistance provided in WBG. In addition to facilitating targeting and
enrollment of beneficiaries, the MIS has increased the efficiency, reliability, and
transparency of MOSA’s work. The 2010 impact evaluation and the 2012 CTP targeting
assessment found that MOSA had succeeded in targeting the poorest households. More
specifically, the CTP targeting assessment’s beneficiary (benefit) incidence analysis
findings showed that 70 percent of those classified as extreme poor (67 percent of
benefits of current beneficiaries) are within the poorest 10 percent of the population—a
high figure relative to other international experiences (see Figure 3 in Section 3.6). 6 As a
result of its effectiveness, other donors, development actors and PA ministries rely on the
MIS (and most specifically the poverty-targeting database) to inform the targeting and
design of their own programs, contributing to a unified and more cohesive approach to
providing social assistance in WBG.




6
  Although this assessment focuses on the recent CTP, which is the product of merging the Bank’s SSNRP
and the EU-funded SHC Program, these findings are relevant for the SSNRP because the CTP evolved
from the SSNRP and basically maintains the same PDOs.



                                                  9
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1 Procurement. The project financed the procurement of multiple small packages
following simplified procedures. Most procurement activities were completed during the
first three years of the project lifetime and were generally carried out in compliance with
the grant agreement and the procurement guidelines. Procurement performance
deteriorated following the resignation of the PMU procurement specialist, leaving the
Ministry with a weak procurement capacity. Over the eight-year project life, there was
one case of misprocurement for the purchase of 50 desktop computers using the shopping
method. Following this incident, an amount of US$43,166 was canceled from the Grant
proceeds and the amount previously disbursed against that contract was refunded to the
Special/Designated Account. As a mitigation measure, and given that the remaining
procurement activities were limited in number and amount, subsequent procurement
packages were subject to prior review by the Bank. Later on, the Bank team suggested
that the project management unit (PMU) hire a qualified procurement consultant on a
part-time basis to provide necessary procurement technical assistance and this was done.
Since then all procurement related activities were carried out in a satisfactory manner and
in compliance with Bank procurement guidelines.

2.4.2 Financial Management and Disbursement. Initially, MOSA had some difficulty
complying with the Bank’s financial management (FM) requirements and there were a
few instances of non-compliance with the provisions of the TFGA. However, the Project
included training for MOSA staff and an FM Manual acceptable to the Bank that was
completed in mid-2008, and the MOF provided technical support, all of which helped
MOSA comply with the financial management requirements. Financial Monitoring
Reports (FMRs) and audit reports were basically submitted on time and, with one
exception, audit reports were unqualified. The quality of FMRs and audit reports steadily
improved as the Bank’s comments were taken into account in subsequent reports.

2.4.3 Safeguards. The SSNRP did not finance investments, but rather financed grants to
poor households and capacity-building activities for the MOSA. The Project did not
trigger any safeguards.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

2.5.1 Despite the significant reforms undertaken to date, the cash transfer program and
the social protection sector need continued support to strengthen and implement key
reforms as well as to promote capacity-building and ensure an effective and financially
viable program in the long term. As a follow up to the SSNRP, on May 10, 2011, the
TFGWB provided US$10.0 million to finance a West Bank and Gaza Cash Transfer
Project (WBGCTP). The WBGCTP basically maintains the same PDOs as the
restructured SSNRP as well as a strong focus on reforms. The PDOs are to: (i) mitigate
the impact of the continued socio-economic crisis on a subset of the extremely poor and
most vulnerable households; and (ii) support the PA’s efforts to continue reforming the
cash transfer program.




                                            10
2.5.2 Under the WBGCTP, project beneficiaries are those poor households living below
the extreme poverty line as defined by the PCBS/Palestinian Household Expenditure and
Consumption Survey (PECS) 2007 and which are eligible for benefits from the CTP as
determined using the PMT formula and criteria in the CTP Quick Guide (i.e., Operations
Manual or OM).

2.5.3 The WBGCTP’s first component, co-financed by the PA, consists of regular
quarterly benefit payments to between 4,500 and 5,000 extremely poor households that
are not receiving additional financial assistance from another funding source. The second
component funds TA to support MOSA in its efforts to adhere to its reform agenda and
includes the following tasks: (1) efforts to include all households living below the
extreme poverty line in the CTP; (2) periodic evaluations of the PMT formula based on
random sample assessments using the Beneficiary Registry System; and (3) continuous
monitoring and re-certification for a significant share of households to determine their
eligibility for the program.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 When assessing the project outcome, it is helpful to place the Project and the role of
the Bank in context. In WBG, the Bank is one actor in the social protection (SP) sector
among many donors. While the total Bank financing of US$28.4 million (or US$26.0
million if one counts only the cash transfers to beneficiary households during 2006-2010)
is far from negligible, 7 the Bank does not provide the largest financial contribution of
active donors. The Bank has, however, played a key role in leveraging its position to
influence the approach of other donors. The most salient example of this was the merger
of the EU SHC and the Bank’s SSNRP programs into one program, the CTP. The Bank
was able to encourage the EU to adopt the same targeting mechanism (based on the PMT
formula), and to adopt a uniform method of determining the benefit level and to have the
same payment modality. These were significant shifts from the approach previously used
in, for example, the SHC program which had used a categorical approach and provided a
standard cash transfer amount to all beneficiaries. This unified targeting system has
strengthened coordination among all major actors working in the social protection sector
in WBG. Furthermore, within the context of this partnership, the Bank has also been
instrumental in ensuring that the PA’s reform efforts maintain momentum—moving the
larger social protection agenda forward.




7
  Annex 1 includes a table showing the financial contributions to the cash transfer program by the EU, the
PA and the Bank for the five years (2006-2010) during which the SSNRP financed benefit payments to
beneficiary households. During that period, the EU contributed 85 percent, the PA contributed 4 percent
and the Bank contributed 11 percent. During the last year (2010) alone, the EU contributed 72 percent, and
the PA and the Bank contributed 14 percent each.



                                                   11
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Highly Relevant

3.1.1 The objectives, and the revised design and implementation of the SSNRP are highly
relevant and consistent with both the current country priorities and the Bank’s current
assistance strategy.

3.1.2 Regarding the current government priorities, the 2011–2013 Palestinian National
Plan (PNP) emphasizes that, while the Government is committed to securing economic
growth and social development for all its citizens, it is mindful of the need to protect
vulnerable groups and prevent them from falling behind as the economy grows. The
primary objective of the PA’s Social Protection Sector Strategy (SPSS) is to ensure a
decent life “for the Palestinian citizens on the path to sustainable human development in
the independent Palestinian state.? This strategy has four goals: (a) poverty alleviation;
(b) creating an enabling environment for weak and marginalized groups; (c) developing a
comprehensive social protection system; and (d) developing an adequate legislative and
institutional environment. The reform of the CTP carried out under the SSNRP is
certainly in line with that strategy.

3.1.3 Regarding the Bank assistance strategy, Pillar 2 of the previous (2008–2010)
Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for WBG focused on Human Development in Health,
Education, and Social Safety Nets. One of the most prominent achievements under that
Pillar has been the reform of the Palestinian cash transfer programs. The new (2012–
2014) ISN is based on the 2011–2013 PNP (also referred to as the National Development
Plan or NDP).. Furthermore, Pillar 1 of the new ISN states that “social assistance will
remain a critical element of Palestinian policy until vibrant growth is able to generate
employment? and that:

       “The NDP explicitly promises to ensure effective and well-targeted assistance to
       those most in need. To support this effort, the World Bank is working with
       Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA) and the Palestinian Central Bureau of
       Statistics to improve social assistance targeting that incorporates the revised
       poverty methodology and explores the scope for combining geographic and
       individual targeting. Technical assistance will enhance the next round of the
       expenditure and consumption surveys and develop prototype modules that can
       assess social assistance in the future.?

3.1.4 The relevance of objectives and of the revised design is clear from the wording of
the PDOs and the changes introduced at restructuring in the project design. With respect
to implementation, the continuous dialogue among partners in the context of the SSNRP
has had significant impact on promoting and accelerating the reform process. The
restructuring gave MOSA a chance to implement successfully a project more aligned
with the environment in WBG. Also, because of the use of the AF tool, the Bank’s
program was able to respond more quickly to emerging priorities, and the required use of
the PMT formula helped ensure that the assistance reach those most in need.




                                           12
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Satisfactory

3.2.1 Since the Project was formally restructured (first order restructuring), this
Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) will assess the project outcome
“before? and “after? restructuring, in accordance with the Bank’s ICR Guidelines.

Achievement of PDO before Restructuring
Rating: Unsatisfactory

3.2.2 The original SSNRP was not on track to meet its PDOs based on the observations of
reports written from 2005 to 2007. This lack of progress toward achieving the PDOs
made it seem highly unlikely that they would be achieved by the original closing date
(December 31, 2008). 8

Objective 1: Mitigate the impact of the present social and economic crisis on the most
vulnerable, and to protect the human capital of poor children in the West Bank and Gaza

3.2.3 The assessments for this time period suggest that the SSNRP was not on track to
achieve Objective 1 of the original PDOs. This is mainly as a result of long delays in
disbursing cash assistance and the limited institutional capacity to implement and monitor
adherence to program conditions (e.g., school attendance, etc.). It took two years for
MOSA to deliver the initial round of cash assistance to beneficiaries, and once disbursed,
this assistance was characterized by beneficiaries as inconsistent and difficult to access
(because some local post offices were closed). Furthermore, when the assistance was
provided, the program conditions were not applied or monitored because the overall
situation on the ground had deteriorated and MOSA had not secured agreements with the
MOH and MOEHE, which would have been needed to verify beneficiary compliance in
the context of the CCT requirements. The provision of payments became critical,
regardless of compliance with the established conditions, because of the dire need for
assistance among the poor and the external barriers to satisfying the conditions (e.g., the
civil service strike which left some schools closed). MOSA realized at this point that it
had to abandon its goal of launching the new CCT program by February 2006. This
realization also occurred because the PA had no counterpart funds and the EC had
suspended its US$10 million of parallel co-financing. Together, these factors prevented
the project from progressing towards achieving its objectives. To modify the PDOs
accordingly, adapting to realities on the ground, the project was restructured in 2007.

Objective 2: Strengthen the institutional capacity of MOSA in order to improve the
transparency, efficiency, and effectiveness of the Special Hardship Case (SHC) program




8
 These reports include: the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) report in May 2005, 2005 Seventh Quality at
Entry Assessment (QEA7) panel report, November 2006 Back to Office Report for the Interim Supervision
Mission, May 2007 Proposal to Restructure the SSNRP, and the Project’s Implementation Status and
Results Reports (ISRs) 5 (December 2006), 6 (June 2007), and 7 (July 2007).


                                                 13
3.2.4 Objective 2 in the original PDOs was also not on track to be achieved by the
original closing date because at this point MOSA’s capacity had not been strengthened
enough to implement the SSNRP in an effective and timely manner, important political
decisions about the SSNRP had not been made, and the situation on the ground had
impeded project implementation. As described above, MOSA was unable to distribute
cash payments until July/August 2006, two years after the grant effectiveness. This delay
occurred in part because the payments were distributed through the post offices, which
made accessing payments difficult for beneficiaries as some of the post offices were
closed because of security problems and political unrest (i.e., civil servant strikes,
including post office workers) at the time.

3.2.5 Another reason for the delay stemmed from the difficulty of enforcing conditions
on the cash transfers as instability led to the closing of some schools (making it
impossible for parents to maintain adequate attendance rates) and because MOSA lacked
the capacity to keep track of beneficiary fulfillment of conditions. Given the difficult
security situation and the frequent changes in MOSA leadership, staff, and location,
MOSA did not have the capacity to implement the CCT program. In addition to these
problems, the PA had not made enough progress on the policy decisions that were critical
for the SSNRP and MOSA’s capacity to implement it, such as the main parameters of a
reformed SHC Program. Furthermore, the 2006 elections resulted in the movement of
MOSA from Gaza to West Bank (requiring new staff to be trained among other needs)
and resulted in civil servant strikes and further restrictions on movement in WBG.
Together, these factors impeded project implementation, especially in the early years. For
these reasons, and given limited financial support, in 2006 this objective received an
unsatisfactory rating in the ISRs in terms of project implementation, project management,
and FM. This situation and these ratings also resulted in the Bank’s decision to
restructure the project as it seemed unlikely that the original PDOs could be achieved.

Achievement of PDO after Restructuring
Rating: Satisfactory

3.2.6 The Restructured SSNRP has appeared to meet its PDOs based on the evidence and
observations provided in reviews, evaluations, and reports written between 2008 and
2012. 9 The restructuring redirected a failing program into a state of the art, regional
model for social assistance.

Objective 1: Mitigate the impact of the continued socio-economic crisis on a subset of the
poorest and most vulnerable households.




9
  These documents include: 2008 Ex-post Review of the SSNRP in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, 2009
Eligibility Review of Households for the SSNRP in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, 2010 Impact Evaluation
for Additional Financing for Food Crisis Project, March 2010 SSNRP and GFRP Project Brief, June 2012
West Bank and Gaza Targeting Assessment of the Cash Transfer Program, the Project’s Implementation
Status and Results Report 16 (June 2012), 2012–2014 Interim Strategy Note for WBG, and 2012 MENA
Development Report on Inclusion and Resilience.


                                                 14
3.2.7 Objective 1 of the restructured PDOs has been achieved based on three factors,
which each suggest that the SSNRP has helped mitigate the impact of the sustained socio-
economic crisis on the poorest households in WBG. First, studies have shown that
SSNRP beneficiaries are among the extremely poor. Second, beneficiary living
conditions seem to have improved since receiving timely cash payments, which have
helped beneficiaries to manage during socio-economic crises and have mitigated negative
coping mechanisms (e.g., skipping meals, selling assets, etc.). Third, recent analysis
suggests that there has been a reduction of poverty in WBG over the last eight years and
the SSNRP might have played a role in this observed trend.

3.2.8 First, it seems clear that the SSNRP has generally targeted the poorest applicant
households. Although the 2009 Eligibility Review did identify some program leakage and
under-coverage, the same review also concluded that overall, the beneficiary households
were eligible and the program was well-targeted. Furthermore, the 2012 CTP Targeting
Assessment (P129124) of the WBGCTP (the Bank cash transfer project which has
followed the SSNRP) revealed that the large majority of applicants classified as
extremely poor by the PMT were indeed extremely poor, though the findings differed
somewhat between Gaza and the West Bank. As shown in Figure 1, among the CTP
applicants, 70 percent of those classified by the PMT formula as extremely poor are
indeed among the poorest 10 percent of the population—a figure that is higher than most
comparator programs (see Figure 3 in Section 3.6). Looking separately at Gaza and the
West Bank, there is a better benefit incidence in Gaza, but even in the West Bank around
60 percent of the applicants classified as extremely poor are among the poorest 10
percent. In addition, the 2010 Impact Evaluation of the Second AF (the first AF from the
FPCR TF which provided a one-time payment of US$200 to selected households) found
evidence that the beneficiaries were indeed poorer than non-beneficiaries and that they
needed more assistance to cover their financial needs. Lastly, the fact that the SSNRP has
enabled the PA and MOSA to effectively target cash assistance to poor households (using
the PMT formula) and that the Palestinian SSN can be quickly scaled up in crisis
situations (as shown in the two FCPR TF AFs, which at two different times was scaled up
to assist 25,000 households including the 4,500 to 5,000 that had been receiving regular
payments) further suggests that the SSNRP has not only helped the poorest households
cope during the recent socioeconomic crises, but has also emerged as a model program
for targeting success.




                                           15
     Figure 1: Beneficiary Incidence for Those Classified as Extreme Poor by the PMT




               Source: June 2012 West Bank and Gaza Targeting Assessment of the Cash
               Transfer Program, pg. 20.

3.2.9 Second, beneficiary living conditions seem to have improved since they started to
receive the SSNRP’s timely and regular cash payments (given that they were not
receiving regular transfers prior to this time). Currently, about 95,000 poor households
receive quarterly payments from the CTP. 10 Furthermore, according to the 2012 CTP
targeting assessment, a large majority of beneficiaries (84 percent in West Bank and 70
percent in Gaza) are satisfied with the program. In addition, other indications of
beneficiary improvements in living conditions are found in the 2010 Impact Evaluation of
the first FPCR TF AF grant (described above). Based on this study, there is evidence,
according to the regression discontinuity design (RDD) estimator, that indeed the grant
beneficiaries are poorer than non-beneficiaries and that they need more help to cover
their financial needs. Furthermore, the RDD estimator found that the quantity of food
bought over the year is higher among grant beneficiaries, but is not significant for most
food items. Since the RDD estimator is equal to zero, this suggests that the grant has
helped the beneficiaries’ households to close the gap with non-beneficiary households.11
Among those receiving the one-time cash transfer under this first FPCR TF AF
(approximately US$200), some who had been receiving regular cash transfers were also
current beneficiaries of the SSNRP. The evaluation found that although the larger share
of current (those receiving regular payments) and new beneficiaries (those only receiving
the one-time payment) used the grant to buy food, current beneficiaries were more likely
to buy clothes than new beneficiaries, and new beneficiaries were more likely to use the
grant to pay bills. In addition, current SSNRP beneficiary households (approximately
4,500 households) were more likely to report having consumed the same number of



10
  The 95,000 households figure reflects the merger of the SHC and SSNRP since 2010. When isolated, the
Bank’s program assists 5,000 of the poorest of the poor households.

11
  However, it is important to view this result with caution because the available data cannot fully support
this conclusion.



                                                    16
meals prior to the one-time payment and that they were more likely to be satisfied with
their food intake, quality of food, and quality of water than the new beneficiaries who
only received the one-time cash transfer. These findings suggest that current beneficiaries
were generally “better off? compared to new beneficiaries, despite the fact that they had
similar levels of income and consumption, because the regular SSNRP payments had
helped the current beneficiaries to smooth their consumption and better cope with
difficult economic situations. Furthermore, the evaluation found that 59.3 percent of
households said their food consumption improved after receiving the grant compared to
the period before receiving it. The improvements included the quality of food consumed
(which 40 percent of households reported) and the quantity and quality of food (which
39.4 percent of households reported).

3.2.10 It also seems likely that the cash transfers have helped mitigate negative coping
mechanisms such as saving money to purchase food by withdrawing a child from school,
reducing expenses on medication, or selling property. As shown in Figure 2 below, the
evaluation reported that the most common coping mechanism after receiving the one-
time payment was that one or more household members had to eat whatever food was
available at home irrespective of whether it was their favorite (reported by 96.6 percent
of sampled households). This coping mechanism is much better than, for example, having
a family member go an entire day without eating (which was only reported by 10.7
percent of sampled households). These excellent results distinguish the SSNRP and its
successor, the CTP, as exceptionally effective programs in improving the lives of their
beneficiaries.

               Figure 2: Nutrition-Related Household Coping Mechanisms

                         "During the last month, did any of your family members had to do any of the following?"

                        Spent a compl ete da y wi thout ea ti ng?       10.7                                89.3
        Wi thdrew a fa mi l y member from s chool or uni vers i ty,
                     to s a ve money to buy food?                           16.9                              83.1

          Reduced the expens es on medi ca ti on to buy food?                     35.6                              64.4

            Ha d to s el l property from the hous e to buy food?                    48.1                              51.9

                                Reduced the number of mea l s ?                     49.7                              50.3
              Ha d to borrow food or rel y on wha t comes from
                       rel a ti ves , fri ends or cha ri ti es ?                         54.7                              45.3

             Reduced the s i ze of mea l s for fa mi l y members ?                          72.1                              27.9

                                  Borrowed money to buy food?                                     88.6                            11.4
            Ha d to ea t wha tever food wa s a va i l a bl e a t home
            i rres pecti ve of whether i t wa s fa vora bl e or not?                                   96.6                            3.4

                                                                        0    10     20     30     40    50     60     70     80   90   100


                                                                                            Yes        No
        Source: 2010 Impact Evaluation for Additional Financing for Food Crisis Project, p. 18.




                                                                        17
3.2.11 Third, we can infer that poverty is likely to have been reduced to some extent by
the SSNRP. The benefit level of cash transfers provided to beneficiaries is calculated
based on the PA’s decision to bridge 50 percent of the poverty gap; therefore, the poverty
level of households receiving benefit payments is significantly reduced. The 2012 CTP
Targeting Assessment estimated that with the regular disbursement of cash transfers, both
poverty and the poverty gap can be reduced significantly. Another relevant point is that
the 2012–2014 ISN for WBG reported a 4 percent reduction in poverty since 2004.
Although there are many factors that could have caused this decrease in poverty, it is
useful to note here because the SSNRP may have played a role in this reduction,
especially considering how the benefit levels are calculated and in light of the findings of
the CTP assessment.

Objective 2: Strengthen MOSA’s institutional capacity to manage cash transfer programs.

3.2.12 In terms of Objective 2, the ICR review found evidence that MOSA’s institutional
capacity has been strengthened since the SSNRP’s implementation. The achievement of a
number of important institutional reforms within MOSA, including the merger of the EU-
funded SHC Program and the Bank-funded SSNRP into the CTP, the strengthening of the
MIS, official policy reforms, and capacity-building efforts each suggest that the SSNRP
has helped strengthen MOSA’s institutional capacity to manage cash transfer programs.

3.2.13 During the life of the SSNRP, the PA has acted to combine the SSNRP and SHC
programs into a unified program (the Cash Transfer Program or CTP). This merger has
led to the adoption of a uniform benefit level and unified payment modality (i.e., the
Palestinian banking system). In addition, other social assistance programs use the same
poverty-targeting database for targeting and designing their own programs. This database
allows MOSA to monitor many programs through one system, which helps in eliminating
double payments and in tracking applicant households’ application and enrollment status.
This merger has strengthened MOSA’s institutional capacity as well as its credibility
among donors and has helped MOSA better manage its cash transfer programs.

3.2.14 Second, and in connection with the program merger, the strengthening of MOSA’s
MIS has played an important role in bolstering the effectiveness of the new targeting
mechanism as well as MOSA’s institutional capacity. Prior to the SSNRP, MOSA only
had a basic MIS with limited capabilities to support the SHC Program. Under the
SSNRP, the MIS has been upgraded significantly. Some improvements to the MIS
include the provision of equipment and TA to collect household data for the targeting
database and a web-based system network which links district offices to the central
MOSA database. This secure and centrally managed system can calculate household
benefit levels, provide a poverty-ranking of all beneficiary households, track households’
application status, be used for M&E, and help produce consolidated up-to-date reports.
Overall, the improvements to the MIS and the fact that the new targeting system is
operational are major achievements in reforming the SSN.

3.2.15 Third, the policy reforms made in the social protection (SP) sector also reflect the
SSNRP’s success in strengthening MOSA’s institutional capacity. For instance, the



                                            18
SSNRP, along with EU assistance, successfully laid the foundation for reforming the
PA’s SSN by enabling the PA to prepare its SPSS and to merge its two main cash
assistance programs into the CTP. In addition, per the Bank’s recommendation, MOSA
switched from transferring funds through the post offices to using the Palestinian banking
system in order to quickly and reliably transfer funds to beneficiary households.

3.2.16 Fourth, capacity-building efforts have also strengthened MOSA. These efforts
include staff training at central and district levels in project management, information
technology (IT), and procurement. At the field level, MOSA social workers have
participated in training sessions on interviewing, survey data collection, data entry, and
support services for households throughout the beneficiary application process. In
addition, the SSNRP has helped improve MOSA’s internal controls and monitoring with
respect to fiduciary matters by training staff and supporting the creation of a Financial
Management Manual. Since the Project’s start, MOSA’s FM and reporting capabilities
have improved significantly in terms of both quality and timely submission of materials
to the Bank. Lastly, the SSNRP has also contributed to strengthening MOSA’s
institutional capabilities to manage cash transfer programs by providing the PA and
MOSA with the opportunity to demonstrate their capacity to lead the difficult reform
process and effectively manage a large-scale, modern cash assistance program.

Overall Rating for Achievement of PDO: Satisfactory

3.2.17 The achievement of the PDOs is rated “Unsatisfactory? before restructuring but is
rated “Satisfactory? following restructuring. Since the PDOs were formally revised (first
order restructuring), the overall rating must consider the achievements before and after
restructuring; 12 the separate ratings are weighted in proportion to the share of actual grant
disbursements made in the periods before and after the restructuring. At restructuring,
only US$2.17 million, or about 8 percent of the total grant amount of US$28.36 million,
was disbursed. As shown in the Table below, the weighted value of 4.76 corresponds to a
rating between “Satisfactory? and “Moderately Satisfactory,? but closer to “Satisfactory.?
The overall rating is rounded to “Satisfactory;? this is the same rating applied for
progress toward achievement of the PDOs in the last Implementation Status and Results
Report (ISR).




12
     ICR Guidelines – OPCS – August 2006 (last updated on 11/10/2010) - Page 25 and Appendix B.


                                                   19
                                          Against             Against Revised              Overall
                                       Original PDOs               PDOs
     1.   Rating                       Unsatisfactory           Satisfactory                 -
     2.   Rating value*                      2                        5                      -
     3.   Weight**                          8%                      92%                   100%
     4.   Weighted value                    0.16                    4.60                   4.76
     5.   Final rating (rounded)                                                       Satisfactory
     *Highly Satisfactory = 6; Satisfactory = 5; Moderately Satisfactory = 4; Moderately
     Unsatisfactory = 3; Unsatisfactory = 2; and Highly Unsatisfactory = 1.
     **% disbursed before/after PDOs change

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Satisfactory

3.3.1 Although the SSNRP is listed as an Investment Loan (SIL), it is not the kind of
project for which one can compute rates of return. However, the 2012 CTP Targeting
Assessment concluded that, measured by its cost-benefit ratio, the CTP is quite effective
because, for each NIS 1.00 spent in transfers by MOSA, NIS 0.66 goes to reduce the
extreme poverty gap (NIS 0.77 in Gaza and NIS 0.52 in the West Bank). 13

3.3.2 There are clear indications that project implementation made MOSA more efficient
and that, overall, the PA received “good value for money?. Many MOSA staff members
were provided training in administering and implementing the CTP. The merger of the
Bank’s SSNRP and the EU’s SHC program into one national program, the CTP
(sometimes referred to as the Palestinian National Cash Transfer Program or PNCTP)
brought about economies of scale, reducing duplication of efforts and overlaps. The
uniform and adjusted benefit levels (based on a household’s poverty level) used by the
merged program combined with the PA’s decision to bridge the poverty gap at the level
of 50 percent was much more efficient than providing a blanket amount to all beneficiary
households regardless of a number of key features (e.g., size, composition, etc.) Further,
efficiencies have certainly been achieved in terms of staff time within MOSA in light of
the merger because administration and management have become more unified. . This is
in significant contrast to the situation in 2004 when many assistance programs were
financed, managed, and carried out on the basis of different criteria and implementation
modalities. Today there is one targeting database used not only by the EU and the Bank,
but also by other ministries and agencies as well as other donors for targeting and
planning. The cost of all of these improvements was modest, especially considering that
most of the money was used for cash payments to eligible households. 14




13
   West Bank and Gaza – Targeting Assessment of the Cash Transfer Program – MNSSP MENA – Report
No.: ACS890 – June 25, 2012. (P129124)
14
   Ninety-two percent of all the financing under the SSNRP went to beneficiary households. Although
precise figures are not available, the ratio is very similar for the EU financing.


                                                    20
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

3.4.1 The SSNRP has played an essential role in both providing important support to poor
households during periods of uncertainty and in strengthening the capacity of MOSA to
manage, administer, and monitor its cash transfer program. Its achievements have been
recognized and the SSN programs have been highlighted as among the most effective in
the region. For example, a recent report highlights these achievements, indicating that
WBG: 15

     a) Is one of two places in the region that has advanced the most in terms of SSN
        reform.
     b) Provides an example of best practice regarding the creation and use of a unified
        registry of beneficiaries.
     c) Is the only area in the region with SSN coverage above the world average.
     d) Is the area where SSN transfers have the greatest impact on the welfare of the
        poorest quintile and have a higher impact on poverty than is observed in the best-
        performing regions.
     e) Is the regional leader in terms of SSN programs’ impact on inequality.
     f) Is an area where M&E is effectively used to inform budgetary decisions and
        reshape programs.

3.4.2 This project was able to effectively, and in a relatively short-time, develop,
implement, and secure donor and PA buy-in for an effective and objective poverty-based
targeting system which accurately identifies and provides regular and timely cash
transfers to poor households, using benefit levels that are tailored to household
composition and poverty level. These achievements have been confirmed through a
number of studies and reviews, including eligibility reviews, an impact evaluation, and a
recent targeting assessment. Further, given the project’s emphasis on capacity-building,
it has strengthened the capacity of central MOSA staff to manage and implement the
program (including the MIS) and has further strengthened field-level social workers
capacity in enrollment, verification, and other program activities. Finally, through the
two FCPR TF AF which funded one-time cash transfers to 25,000 poor households in
WBG, the system has demonstrated its ability to scale up as needed. This visible
achievement is important in garnering continued donor support as well as the public’s
support for the MOSA-administered CTP. The PA’s unified program (the CTP), using the
same targeting mechanism, now provides benefit payments to about 95,000 households.

3.4.3 Since the SSNRP’ s objectives, revised design and implementation were and remain
highly relevant to current country priorities as well as the ISN, and since the achievement
of the PDO along with efficiency are rated satisfactory, the overall outcome is rated
“Satisfactory?.



15
 Inclusion and Resilience: The Way Forward for Social Safety Nets in the Middle East and North Africa –
MENA Development Report - 72975 – September 2012.


                                                  21
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

3.5.1 The most recent poverty figures are for 2009. Poverty reduction has been driven by
international aid, including the cash transfer program. According to a recent MENA
Development Report, 16 SSN programs in WBG covered more than half of the poorest
quintile; this is a coverage rate above the world average. WBG has also been a regional
leader in terms of SSN impact on inequality, with its SSNs reducing the Gini coefficient
by more than 7 percent and outperforming not only the rest of the MENA Region but also
two other regions.

3.5.2 Although WBG has seen a 4 percent reduction in poverty since 2004, the figure
masks wide variation across time and territory. Poverty in the West Bank has been
steadily declining, while in Gaza it has yet to return to its 2004 level. At 33.7 percent,
poverty incidence in Gaza is twice as high as that in the West Bank. Beneficiaries of
international assistance doubled between 2006 and 2009, and 71 percent of all people in
Gaza were beneficiaries of at least one form of social assistance.

3.5.3 Women benefitted greatly from the SSNRP. Most beneficiary households included
women; in addition, about 43 percent of all beneficiary households were headed by
women (40,552 female-headed beneficiary households out of a total of 93,990
beneficiary households in 2011).

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

3.5.2 MOSA has been considerably strengthened during the eight years of project
implementation and has demonstrated its ability to design, administer, and manage an
effective SSN that could be scaled-up during crisis situations, as was seen when the
program was expanded to provide one-time transfers to approximately 25,000 households
through the two AFs from the FCRP TF. Both the Bank and the EU contributed to this
satisfactory outcome, with the EU deserving a significant amount of credit. The EU,
which is also by far the largest contributor to the CTP, has been instrumental in building
MOSA’s technical capacity by financing a number of short- and long-term experts to
provide TA in key areas such as social policy, adherence to the reform actions, and PMT
updates (i.e., updating the PMT formula using most recent poverty data).




16
  Inclusion and Resilience – The Way Forward for Social Safety Nets in the Middle East and North Africa
– Report No. 72975 – September 2012.


                                                  22
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.5.3 The June 2010 merger of the EU- and World Bank-funded cash transfer programs
further strengthened the already high level of coordination among donors. The excellent
partnership between the PA, the EU, and the Bank contributed to the positive outcome of
the Project.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

3.6.1 The CTP Targeting Assessment undertaken in the spring of 2012 was finalized in
June 2012. Although this was not a beneficiary survey of the SSNRP, it provided some
information about the beneficiaries’ level of satisfaction with the CTP, which is a product
of the SSNRP and its institutional reforms. A summary of some of the main findings can
be found in Annex 5.

3.6.2 This assessment found that among the applicants 70 percent of those classified
as extremely poor by the PMT formula are among the poorest 10 percent, and 84
percent are among the poorest 20 percent of the population. The targeting accuracy
of the PMT formula is among the best in the world, making the CTP among the
world’s best targeted programs in this regard (see Figure 3). The assessment also
found that the CTP’s outreach is largely effective in reaching the poor. Not
surprisingly, a majority of respondents were not satisfied with the amount of the cash
transfer. On the other hand, the majority of beneficiaries were satisfied with the CTP
approach and the application process. They reported that MOSA dealt with them well
or very well, and that they received without undue delay the full payments to which
they were entitled. Most beneficiaries used the cash transfer primarily to purchase
food items.




                                            23
Figure 3: Benefit Incidence for the Poorest 20% of the Population – Cash Transfers




  Source: June 2012 West Bank and Gaza Targeting Assessment of the Cash Transfer Program, pg. 20.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High

4.1 The ICR rates the overall risk to development outcome—i.e., the risk that
development outcomes will not be maintained—as “High.?

4.2 The PA has acknowledged the need to adjust benefit levels downwards in the near
future, since donor funding is declining and the number of eligible beneficiary
households is likely to increase. The PA has committed to cost-sharing arrangements for
the new WBGCTP financed by the Bank in order to partially address the sustainability
issue (i.e., the PA agreed to cover 30 percent of the cash benefits for the eligible
households for the first year, and 50 percent for the second year and thereafter). This is an
interesting development; however, as mentioned in the WBGCTP documents, the whole
CTP itself is not likely to be sustainable without donor funding. On the other hand, the
achievement of institutional capacity building is not necessarily at risk. Capacity has been
successfully built. The MIS is working well, and MOSA’s staff has also gained technical
strengths as they worked on developing an excellent social protection strategy and are
heavily engaged in managing other non-cash assistance programs and interventions, such
as the deprived families economic empowerment program (which is kind of a
microenterprise program) and the food aid program. Moreover, MOSA is chairing a very
active social protection sector working group and is heavily engaged in consultations and
reach out to the local community and civil society. Therefore, MOSA should be able to



                                                24
manage the CTP and maintain the ability to deliver cash effectively, even if the amount
of the cash benefit is reduced due to lack of donor funding or economic conditions.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.1.1 The Bank’s performance during preparation and appraisal is rated “Moderately
Unsatisfactory.? As discussed under Section 2 - “Key Factors Affecting Implementation
and Outcomes? - there were a number of problems with regard to project design.
Essentially, the idea of CCTs linked to the use of education and health services was not
appropriate for the WBG context. In addition, the design was complicated and project
implementation was bound to be cumbersome. According to the PAD, the overall risk for
the Project was rated “High.? It should be noted that the Quality Assurance Group (QAG)
that carried out a Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA7) in the second quarter of 2005
rated the overall quality at entry as “Moderately Satisfactory.? It commented that the
Project had some strong aspects, but raised questions on the political will and technical
capacity within MOSA to monitor SSN programs, and on the choice of CCTs rather than
UCTs.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

5.1.2 The Bank’s supervision performance is rated “Highly Satisfactory?. This project
has supported key reforms which were further strengthened as a result of the Bank’s close
partnership with the PA and EU. The continuous dialogue among partners in the context
of the SSNRP has had significant impact on promoting and accelerating the reform
process in terms of cash assistance activities but also in developing and further
strengthening strategy design ensuring MOSA and the PA remain in the driver’s seat of
the reform process, responsible for the management and implementation of all social
protection sector activities. As described previously, a recent report highlights WBG
achievements in SSN reform and places it as one of the highest achievers in the region.

5.1.3 The MTR in February/March 2007 confirmed the need for project restructuring
which was carried out in May 2007. The restructuring gave MOSA a chance to
implement successfully a project more aligned with the environment in WBG. The
restructuring did not show positive results immediately because of some bottlenecks (e.g.,
use of post offices in transferring funds to beneficiaries). After these bottlenecks were
removed, implementation became rather smooth. The Bank’s consistent involvement,
through the SSNRP, in various aspects of cash assistance efforts (e.g., new targeting
methods, an improved MIS, policy reform), and close cooperation with both the EU and
PA, were instrumental in the decision and agreement among the Bank, EU, and PA to
merge WBG’s two main cash assistance programs (SHC and SSNRP) into a MOSA-
administered CTP.



                                           25
5.1.4 In terms of day-to-day supervision, the Bank Task Team paid good attention to FM
and to procurement under the Project, with adequate coverage in the aide memoires and
ISRs. The Task Team handled effectively the one case of misprocurement. Bank
Management gave high priority to this Project. For the processing of the Grant,
implementation support, and supervision of the project, the Bank budget was US$0.83
million for nine FYs - 2004–2012 (Annex 4). Several Bank technical staff members were
deeply involved in efforts to improve poverty targeting through the PMT formula,
eligibility reviews, and upgrading of the IT/MIS. After the initial phase of the Project,
there was continuity in staffing, with task team members remaining involved in the
Project. In aide memoires and ISRs, the candor, degree of detail, and reporting of project
progress (or lack thereof) signified high quality work.

5.1.5 AFs were used as an instrument of choice. The AF tool lends required flexibility to
the portfolio, which is relevant in the constantly changing environment which
characterizes the West Bank and, in particular, Gaza. The preparation time for such
projects was less than that for projects that were being designed de novo. Therefore, the
Bank’s program was able to respond more quickly to emerging priorities.

5.1.6 During the “supervision? phase, Bank staff devoted considerable time and efforts to
securing AF for WBG, in particular to help the population during the food crisis when
food insecurity was high and on the rise from 2006 to 2008. The Bank was able to
quickly process two AFs from the FPCR TF for a total of US$8.4 million (US$5.0
million in 2008 and US$3.4 million in 2010) used to provide one-time cash payments to
about 25,000 poor households (including the approximately 5,000 households that were
already receiving regular cash transfers from the SSNRP). These AFs were essential in
providing needed and timely assistance to households coping with the crisis.

5.1.7 Furthermore, to ensure that assistance reached those most in need, the Bank
required the use of the PMT formula for all Global Food Crisis Response Program
(GFRP) Trust Fund proceeds which included the FPCR TF AFs. Through these AFs, the
Bank was able to send a message to all concerned parties (e.g., donors, the PA, poor
households, banks, etc.) that the food crisis was an unusual situation that required
immediate attention. It also provided the Bank with an opportunity to respond quickly to
the PA’s request for support, to send a message to other donors on the need for
immediate assistance in light of the crisis, and to assess and demonstrate the PA’s
capacity to effectively scale up its cash assistance mechanism. The Bank also
demonstrated to the PA and others the possibility of undertaking such efforts in the
context of weak governance (through ex-post reviews), as well as the importance of
undertaking reform efforts during times of relative stability so that in times of crisis, the
Government is able to provide assistance to poor households quickly and effectively.

5.1.8 In addition to harmonizing efforts among donors and programs which also use the
poverty targeting database and often the PMT formula (which is required for all cash
assistance programs), the CTP uses the same targeting mechanism, uniform benefit level,
and payment modality. Along with the substantial technical assistance provided by the
EU, the SSNRP has supported a stronger and more sustainable SP system by supporting



                                             26
the development of strategies and action plans in this area (i.e., SPSS) and by ensuring
their alignment with the PA’s development and reform priorities. Reform efforts have
been further supported by continuous emphasis on capacity-building at all levels,
including shared- and applied-learning activities and staff training at central and district-
levels in areas related to project management, IT, and procurement. Further, at the field-
level, MOSA social workers have been provided with training in many areas, including in
interviewing, survey data collection and entry, and supporting households throughout the
application process.

5.1.9 The challenge for the Bank involved not only operating in a fragile, conflict
environment, but also working in a politically sensitive area. The environment was one of
continuous conflict and insecurity, with restrictions on the movements of people and
goods between the West Bank and Gaza because of the closures imposed by GOI. On
balance, implementation arrangements worked well after restructuring despite all of the
external difficulties. The strong implementation support provided by the Bank’s country
office staff helped the MOF and MOSA carry out the Project. The project experience
confirms that under a complex emergency situation, it is beneficial to have the Bank Task
Team based in the field because in this case, the PA and MOSA staff had easy access to
the Bank team, which allowed Bank supervision to take the form of a continuous
dialogue or coaching of the MOF and MOSA.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.1.10 According to the Bank ICR Guidelines, 17 when the rating for the quality at entry is
in the unsatisfactory range and the rating for quality of supervision is in the satisfactory
range, the rating for overall Bank performance depends on the outcome rating. Since the
outcome is rated “Satisfactory,? the overall Bank performance is rated “Moderately
Satisfactory?, in accordance with the ICR Guidelines. However, this automatic
application of the Bank ICR Guidelines does not adequately reflect the important
achievements and commitment of the Bank staff nor does it reflect the dramatic turn
around the Project experienced following restructuring.

5.2 Recipient Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

5.2.1 This section on recipient performance will review first the performance of the PA
and the MOF, and second, the performance of MOSA as the implementing ministry.




17
  Implementation Completion and Results Report – Guidelines – OPCS - August 2006 - last updated on
11/10/2010.


                                                 27
(a) PA and MOF Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

5.2.2 The PA emerged as a leader of a difficult, but politically gratifying reform of
WBG’s main SSN program. The success of the SSNRP is attributable to the ability and
commitment of the PA to make major policy decisions in a fragile state situation. On
February 23, 2009, the PA’s Council of Ministers approved the merger of the EU’s SHC
program with the World Bank’s SSNRP, to form a PA-administered cash assistance
scheme, effective as of January 1, 2010. This has given the PA more credibility within
the donor community in terms of its capacity to lead policy dialogue and implement
reforms.

5.2.3 The PA proved its resilience as it carried the SSNRP through a number of
challenges, which included the frequent withholding of PA dues by the GOI and
discontinuity of donor funding in 2006, following the election of Hamas. The war in
Gaza between December 2008 and January 2009 was followed by about four months of
acute cash shortages, resulting in some disbursement delays. However, the PA was quite
proactive and managed to overcome these obstacles and disburse all funds of the US$5
million AF (first AF from the FPCR TF) by the original closing date.

5.2.4 Apart from its leading and supervisory role, the PA, through its Internal Control
Unit, performed a monitoring role over the SSNRP. The Internal Control Unit checked
the payments to beneficiaries for eligibility and for adherence to financial procedures and
it performed spot checks and reviews of several aspects of the program, which ensured
program functionality and effectiveness.

5.2.5 The PA also provided national coordination support as well as public
communication and awareness about the reform process. Following the adoption of the
PMT targeting mechanism and the merger of the SHC and SSNRP into the CTP, the PA
carried out a number of consultation workshops to present the new CTP to stakeholders
and to build national understanding and consensus (including among civil society, the
private sector, beneficiaries, public sector institutions, etc.).

5.2.6 During the first four years of the Project, the grant was financially managed by the
MOF. This responsibility was later transferred to MOSA. The MOF provided fiduciary
support to MOSA, which enabled it to meet Bank financial and procurement
requirements and to enhance project management.

(b) Implementing Ministry (MOSA) Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

5.2.7 With limited capacity during the eight years of project operation, MOSA tackled
tremendous technical and logistical challenges in an emergency context to implement the
SSNRP. The initial campaign has resulted in the submission of 150,000 applications for
assistance. Although MOSA took more time than anticipated and did not have the
capacity to process all the applications, MOSA was able to register, certify, and rank



                                            28
applicants according to their poverty status. This was carried out despite restrictions by
the GOI and despite the fact that MOSA’s employees, among other civil servants, were
not receiving regular salaries during most of the initial project period. MOSA took a
number of steps to support SSNRP implementation, including dedicating sufficient staff
for implementation and hiring a Project Director to manage the Project when the Ministry
realized that the SSNRP required additional support and attention.

5.2.8 The Ministry implemented and performed an internal monitoring function over the
SSNRP. It provided quarterly progress reports and financial reports to the Bank that
detailed project achievements, certifications/recertifications, financial payments,
procurements, and other aspects of the SSNRP in accordance with the Bank’s
requirements. These reports were satisfactory to the Bank, and the Bank had to return to
MOSA for further clarification in only two instances.

5.2.9 MOSA displayed political will and commitment when it: introduced a poverty-
based targeting system that replaced the existing categorical system, gradually tested this
system’s effectiveness, and finally adopted it nationally. The introduction of the PMT
formula for targeting was initially challenging for social workers. MOSA conducted
training activities as well as checks on data and was able to decrease error variations
across directorates. The Ministry also established an accountability system that reduced
errors and fortified the PMT formula with additional variables that correlate with poverty
to improve targeting. MOSA had to tackle a number of issues in order to improve the
CTP’s efficiency, including the opening of Bank accounts for beneficiaries, reconciling
payments, ensuring quick replenishment of sub-accounts, etc.

5.2.10 MOSA transformed its database into a state-of-the-art poverty-targeting database
that proved its efficiency and flexibility during the food crisis when it was possible to
scale up support to provide emergency response assistance to approximately 25,000
households. The MIS was later centralized and its functionality enhanced to incorporate
data from households in Gaza. The database is now centrally managed, has a web-based
application, and provides a poverty ranking for all beneficiary households using a unified
approach.

5.2.11 The leadership role MOSA played with respect to the second and third AFs from
the FPCR TF deserves a special acknowledgement. These AFs gave MOSA the
opportunity to demonstrate its capacity to scale-up the program quickly and efficiently (in
terms of channeling donor funding, targeting beneficiaries, and distributing payments).
MOSA, in this way, was able to strengthen the confidence among the public and donors
in the PA’s capacity and transparency in helping poor households during a time of crisis.
The effective implementation of both of these AFs demonstrated the reliability of the
program’s targeting mechanism (based on the PMT formula) and MOSA’s capacity to
manage and administer effectively a large-scale cash assistance program. MOSA also
managed to communicate to the public that these AFs were one-time payments and
addressed any concerns related to the decreased amount distributed through the second
FCPR TF AF.




                                            29
5.2.12 Since mid-2010, and as a result of the merger between the SSNRP and the EU-
funded SHC into the CTP, MOSA has been providing cash transfers to several thousand
households (from approximately 64,000 households when the first payment of the unified
program was made in 2010 to 95,000 by 2012), with an almost even distribution between
the West Bank and Gaza. 18 With the launch of the CTP, SP-sector activity coordination
improved among donors because all of the organizations relied on the enhanced and
unified database to identify and target beneficiaries. The recently completed CTP
Targeting Assessment found that the CTP’s functionality and administrative processes
appear effective and the majority of beneficiaries have reported receiving their payments
in a timely manner. This Assessment also found that the large majority of respondents
used the cash transfer primarily to purchase food, and as such, it could be argued that the
PMT formula is effective in terms of identifying poor and extremely poor households
because these households were unable to purchase enough food, a basic and necessary
commodity, without the grant.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Recipient Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

5.2.13 The overall performance of the Recipient is rated satisfactory. As a result of
MOSA’s exceptional performance, the SSNRP today is considered an effective and
reliable SSN that can be “quickly scaled up in crisis situations? to provide additional
assistance to poor households. Not only did the Recipient manage to implement the
Project under difficult circumstances and deal with extraordinary challenges, but the
Recipient also established a SSN that is considered state-of-the-art in the region and
beyond.

6. Lessons Learned

6.1. Conditional Cash Transfers (CCTs) are not the best approach in all cases. In the
case of WBG, parents were already motivated to send their children to school and health
clinics. However, because of the level of poverty households faced, families needed cash
assistance to do this. This suggests that a UCT would have been a more efficient form of
assistance in WBG. CCTs are complex, administratively demanding, and particularly
difficult to administer in conflict-affected areas which characterized WBG. Additionally,
given MOSA’s limited capacity and daunting challenges that a CCT would have created
in terms of program management on the ground, it was not a great fit. However, it is
important to note that at the time of project design, CCTs were considered the most
appropriate and effective approach to providing cash assistance and were supported by
many in the context of project reviews (including QAG/QEA).

6.2 It is important to take advantage of existing projects’ experience when designing
the implementation arrangements of new projects. In the case of the SSNRP, the Bank



18
     2012 CTP Targeting Assessment (P129124).



                                                30
task team recommended procedures for fiduciary compliance that were simple and
similar to those that had been used before and with which the ministries involved in the
Project were familiar.

6.3 SSN instruments, such as cash transfer schemes, need to be in place and tested
before a crisis so that they will be ready for quick scale up during a crisis. It may,
therefore, be useful to ensure that policy dialogue and reform efforts begin during times
of relative stability in order to be prepared for crisis situations.

6.4 Non-politicized, means-tested targeting modalities are useful in reassuring
donors that the necessary safeguards are in place to ensure that the poorest and most
vulnerable households receive assistance (and appropriate levels of assistance tailored to
the household’s features including size and composition) rather than special categories of
individuals who may not be the poorest, but are perceived as vulnerable (e.g., widows or
single female-headed households). The PMT formula used in WBG has proven to be both
an objective and largely accurate way to identify poor households. A targeting system
which uses a PMT formula can also be useful for facilitating the quick scale up of the
program during crisis situations.

6.5 As demonstrated through this project, structural reform of the SSN may be
necessary and important. Essential reforms may include, for example, ensuring the use
of an effective and transparent targeting mechanism with a proven track record, or using
a banking system to transfer funds. These reforms might be considered as prerequisites to
the establishment and implementation of cash transfer programs—particularly in a setting
where the implementing agency has limited institutional capacity. This also highlights the
need for the Bank to stress, in discussions with the government, the importance of
undertaking such reforms upfront and during periods of relative stability.

6.6 The Bank can be effective in providing emergency assistance when the
appropriate structures are in place, even in an environment of weak governance.
The Bank is knowledgeable on how to design effective SSNs, including the identification
of those structures which are effective for the administration of cash transfer programs.
Also, the Bank can mitigate risks for its program by having periodic eligibility reviews.
These reviews are particularly useful in monitoring payments to beneficiaries and in
verifying that funds are spent for the purpose intended and in accordance with approved
eligibility criteria.

6.7 Additional effort and resources may be required to ensure that individuals in the
lowest income tiers receive priority assistance. Adopting a new targeting approach (in
this case the PMT formula) can still create unease among governments where political
agendas also exist. In the context of this Project, the Bank required the use of the PMT
formula for all grant funding to ensure that assistance reached those most in need.

6.8 Governments should carefully consider the costs associated with maintaining
cash assistance programs in the long-term, as donor assistance may not be provided
for extended periods of time. Well-targeted and cost-effective programs (even if



                                           31
relatively small in size) are preferable to large and costly programs which governments
might not be able to fund. Despite the state-of-the-art nature of WBG’s SSN, it is
becoming clearer that MOSA will need to address the long-term sustainability of its CTP,
particularly in terms of funding. Thanks to its modern MIS, MOSA already has the
infrastructure for a well-targeted program, but now it needs to work on making it a cost-
effective program as well. The decision to merge the two main cash assistance programs
(SHC and SSNRP) into a MOSA-administered CTP is a step in the right direction.

6.9 Close supervision and flexibility in responding to changing situations are
important to ensure that the Project is successfully implemented. The project
experience confirms that it is beneficial to have the Task Team based in the field. The PA
staff had easy access to the Bank team, implementation issues were identified early, and
the Bank was able to respond quickly to problems. In addition, given the field presence,
Bank supervision could come in the form of a continuous dialogue with, or coaching of,
the implementing agency.

6.10 Ensuring in-house development of the MIS and expertise related to its
management and operation is useful in promoting flexibility and adaptability when
facing any modifications in the program design and/or targeting mechanism.
Although the SSNRP software development began several years ago, it is because of
MOSA’s in-house IT capabilities that the MIS team has been able to make necessary
modifications to the software and has been able to effectively adapt the MIS to changes
to the program in terms of targeting, eligibility criteria, etc., over the project life.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
n.a.

(b) Cofinanciers
n. a.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
n. a.




                                           32
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                         Appraisal        Actual/Latest
                                                                                             Percentage
              Components              Estimate (USD       Estimate (USD
                                                                                            of Appraisal
                                         millions)*          millions)
Component 1 - Cash Transfers
Original 2004 Project                           7.50              7.60                           101.3
2008 Additional Financing                      10.00            10.00                            100.0
2008 Additional Food Crisis Financing           5.00              5.00                           100.0
2010 Additional Food crisis financing           3.40              3.40                           100.0
Sub-total Cash Transfers                       25.90            26.00                            100.3

Component 2 - Capacity Building
Original 2004 Project                                      1.60
                                                                               2.36**            94.4
Component 3 – Project Administration
Original 2004 Project                                      0.90

Total Financing Required                                 28.40                28.36              99.9

(b) Financing
                                                          Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                 Type of  Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
              Source of Funds
                                               Cofinancing (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                          millions)   millions)
Palestinian Authority                              n.a      0.00        0.00        0.00
Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank                  n.a.    20.00       19.96        99.8
Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund              n.a.     8.40        8.40       100.0

* In the PAD, regarding the Original 2004 Project, the total appraisal estimate was US$82.5 million
because it was assumed that the PA and donors would also contribute to the Project. Since those financings
did not materialize, the above tables include only the amounts financed by the Trust Fund for Gaza and
West Bank and the Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund.
** Actual figures are available by category (cash transfers, goods, consultants, etc.) but not by component;
so, in the above table, components 2 and 3 which include everything except cash transfers have been
merged.




                                                    33
Annex 1 (continued). Financial Contributions to the Cash Transfer Program by the
EU, the PA and the Bank in NIS

For the five years (2006-2010) during which the SSNRP financed benefit payments
to beneficiary households.

                 Amounts of Benefit Payments to Beneficiary Households
                                    (in US$ millions)
 Year        European    Palestinian       World               Total
              Union       Authority         Bank
    2006        29.6               -             0.3                   29.9
                99%                -             1%                   100%

    2007        36.2               -             2.7                   38.9
      %         93%                -             7%                   100%

    2008        43.2               -              4.6                  47.8
      %         90%                -             10%                  100%

    2009        53.5               -              9.0                  62.5
      %         86%                -             14%                  100%

    2010        48.0              9.5             9.4                  66.9
      %         72%              14%             14%                  100%

    Total       210.5             9.5            26.0                 246.0
       %        85%               4%             11%                  100%

Notes:

(1) For the EU, amounts in Euros have been multiplied by 1.3 to obtain the amounts in
US Dollars.

(2) For the PA, the amount in NIS (source: MOSA) has been divided by 3.9 to obtain the
amount in US Dollars.




                                          34
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

2.1 The project financed cash transfers to eligible beneficiary households, as well as
incremental operating costs, goods, consultant services, and training for capacity building
and project administration.

Cash Transfers to Beneficiary Households

2.2 The majority of the grants (US$26.0 million or 92 percent) went to making cash
payments to beneficiary households, as follows:

                     Cash Transfers by Year (in US Dollars millions)
          Year      Original     2008          2008         2010         TOTAL
                    SSNRP     Additional Additional Additional
                              Financing Food Crisis         Food
                                            Financing       Crisis
                                                          Financing
        2006              0.3                                                  0.3
        2007              2.7            -            -              -         2.7
        2008              4.6            -            -              -         4.6
        2009                -          3.8          5.2              -         9.0
        2010                -          6.0            -           3.4          9.4

        TOTAL             7.6           9.8             5.2        3.4       26.0

Cash Transfers under the Original SSNRP (US$ 7.6 million)

    Benefit         Benefit        Date of           Actual      Average Benefit
   Payments        Payments         Each           Number of      Payment per
  (amount in      (amount in      Payment          Beneficiary     Beneficiary
     NIS)            US$)                          Households      Household
                                                                    (in US$)
     1,191,829      322,116        7&8/2006          1644              196
     1,680,919      454,302        4&5/2007          2185              208
     1,696,751      458,581        6&7/2007          2185              210
     2,036,439      550,389         8/2007           4500              122
     4,506,887     1,218,077      9&10/2007          4999              244
     4,147,009     1,120,813       5&6/2008          4918              228
     4,317,520     1,166,897       7&8/2008          4842              241
     4,257,081     1,150,562      9&10/2008          4,738             243
     4,277,857     1,156,177     11&12/2008          4500              257

   28,112,300      7,597,919




                                              35
Cash Transfers under the 2008 Additional Financing (US$10.0 million)

First Additional Financing (AF1 – US$10.0 million – TFGA dated September 11, 2008,
effective on December 10, 2008) would be used to make cash payments varying between
NIS 250 and NIS 600 per month per household to about 4,500 very poor households.

Benefit Payments          Date of Each          Actual Number of      Average Benefit
amount (in US$)            Payment                 Beneficiary         Payment per
                                                   Households           Beneficiary
                                                                        Household
                                                                         (in US$)
      422,974                 3/2009                 4,918                   86
     1,180,790                6/2009                 4,842                  244
     1,140,097                9/2009                 4,738                  241
     1,116,907               11/2009                 4,249                  263
     1,465,096                3/2010                 4,249                  345
     1,621,763                5/2010                 4,829                  336
     1,632,348                9/2010                 4,700                  347
     1,258,044               12/2010                 4,682                  269

     9,838,020

Cash Transfers under the 2008 Additional Food Crisis Financing (US$5.0 million)

Second Additional Financing (AF2 – US$5.0 million - Food Price Crisis Response Trust
Fund – FPCR TF - Grant Agreement dated December 19, 2008, effective on March 5,
2009) would be used to make a one-time payment of US$200 to 25,000 eligible
households in order to provide temporary relief to the poorest households that will enable
them to purchase additional food stuffs and other necessities during the current crisis.

Benefit Payments          Date of Each          Actual Number of      Average Benefit
amount (in US$)            Payment                 Beneficiary         Payment per
                                                   Households           Beneficiary
                                                                        Household
                                                                         (in US$)
     3,290,600             06/01/2009                16,453                 200
     1,865,400             12/01/2009                 9,327                 200
      16,200               01/31/2010                   81                  200

     5,172,200                                       25,861                  200




                                           36
Cash Transfers under the 2010 Additional Food Crisis Financing (US$3.4 million)

Third Additional Financing (AF3 – US$3.4 million - Food Price Crisis Response Trust
Fund – FPCR TF - Grant Agreement dated April 18, 2010, effective on May 5, 2010)
would be used to make a one-time payment of US$135 to those 25,000 households which
had received the one-time payment under AF2.

 Benefit Payments          Date of Each           Actual Number of         Average Benefit
 amount (in US$)            Payment                  Beneficiary            Payment per
                                                     Households              Beneficiary
                                                                             Household
                                                                              (in US$)
     3,355,155               06/02/2010                24,853                    135
      18,090                 12/01/2010                 134                      135

     3,373,245                                         24,987                       135

Capacity Building and Project Administration

2.7 Expenditures for capacity building and project administration, which amounted to
US$2.36 million, were financed solely by the original SSNRP grant. The table below
shows the original allocation and the revised allocation by category, which illustrate that
there was a sharp increase in the amount spent for incremental operating costs at the
expense of all other categories:

Category                                              Original        Revised       Percentage
                                                     allocation      allocation      Change
                                                         (in US$ thousands)
Goods                                                         500            404       -19.1
Consultant Services, including Audit Costs                    800            607       -24.2
Training                                                      300             77       -74.3
Incremental Operating Costs                                   200          1,271      +535.4
Refunding of Project Preparation Advance                      200               0         -
Unallocated                                                   500               0         -
TOTAL                                                       2,500          2,359        0.00

2.8 The following is a list of the main items included in each category:

(1) Goods (US$404,000).

The main goods financed include: printers, air conditioners, overhead projectors, digital
cameras, copy machines, computers, computer equipment, antivirus software, accounting
software, statistics software, IT equipment (e.g., local area networks, file sharing servers,
routers, VPN hardware), backup devices, uninterruptible power sources (UPS), LCD
devices, phones, phone accessories, heavy duty calculators, office furniture, office
curtains, and buffet accessories.



                                             37
Among these goods, the most was spent on:

   (i)     computers and computer equipment, including printers, UPS, and back-up
           devices (US$192,524);
   (ii)    computer networks and IT equipment, including local area networks, routers,
           network plugs, and VPN points (US$114,943); and
   (iii)   office furniture (US$66,103).

(2) Consultant Services, including audit costs (US$607,000).

The main consultant services financed were for: coordination consultants, training
consultants, statistician consultants, Management Information System (MIS) consultants,
project financial audits, project field office coordinators, legal consultants, project
evaluations, and eligibility reviews. Consultant services also funded a project database
security specialist, project reporting specialist, public relations and awareness consultant,
Deputy Project Manager, accounting consultant, procurement specialist consultant,
bookkeeper, and administrative assistant.

Among these consultant services, the most was spent on MIS consultants (US$189,650),
project financial audits (US$96,383), and a project impact evaluation for the food crisis
(US$64,495).

(3) Training (US$77,000).

The main training financed concerned: an inter-ministerial training program for MOSA,
MOH, and MOEHE staff, an MIS training program for MOSA staff, central- and district-
staff training in project management, IT, and procurement, and MOSA social worker
training in interviewing, survey data collection, data entry, and support services for
households throughout the beneficiary application process.

(4) Incremental Operating Costs (US$1,271,000).

According to the April 2008 Amendment of the original TFGA, the term “Incremental
Operating Costs? means expenditures occurred by MOSA on account of rental of office
space, insurance costs, communication costs, maintenance costs of equipment purchased
under, or assigned for the Project, office supplies, utility charges, banking charges,
domestic travel, and salaries of the Project’s management team staff but excluding
salaries of civil servants of the Palestinian Authority. There was a large increase in the
amount allocated to operating costs because the project was extended for three and a half
years and none of the AFs supported operating costs, which made it necessary to allocate
more funds to this category. These costs covered operating costs for the original project
and the three AF which included, for example, transportation and communications costs
for social workers for the regular recertification of beneficiary households. As part of the
legal covenants, the Project was required to recertify the households and update the
PMTF based on the latest national households and expenditures surveys conducted every
two years. The project was also required to reach out the poorest and the most vulnerable



                                             38
households. Thus the home visits and recertification were an integral part of project
design and thus necessitated allocation of additional funds. Finally, operating costs
included the cost of stationary and office supplies, printing of questionnaires and costs
associated with hiring additional number of social workers and data entry specialists.




                                           39
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

3.1 The 2012 CTP Targeting Assessment 19 concluded that, measured by its cost-benefit
ratio, the cash transfer program is quite effective because, for each NIS 1.00 spent in
transfers by MOSA, NIS 0.66 goes to reduce the extreme poverty gap (NIS 0.77 in Gaza
and NIS 0.52 in the West Bank). Given that the accuracy of the CTP targeting is similar
to some of the best programs in the world, extending coverage to poor households would
likely yield large efficiency gains. First, by extending outreach to ensure inclusion of the
extremely poor in the poverty-targeting database, information on such households can be
shared with other relief and development organizations to further coordinate efforts,
avoiding duplication and providing support to the poorest populations. Second, a larger
portion of total social assistance can be directed to the poorest of the poor. For example,
prior to the establishment of the unified CTP, it was found that 40 percent of the poor
were not receiving any formal assistance (Palestinian Household Expenditure and
Consumption Survey (PECS), 2007). Further, analysis of leakages to the non-poor in the
distribution of amounts of benefits shows that these amounts were not insignificant. Half
of the monetary value of all social assistance accrued to the non-poor, and almost four in
every ten dollars were captured by the richest 40 percent of the population. For MOSA, at
the time, this figure was about 35 percent, providing some indication that there is
potential for efficiency gains in extending CTP coverage as for every two dollars
distributed through MOSA’s assistance, only one dollar went to the poor (World Bank
Poverty Assessment, 2010).

3.2 SSNRP implementation made the MOSA more efficient and, overall, the PA got
“good value for money?. Many MOSA staff members were trained to improve their
ability to administer and implement the cash transfer program. The merger of the Bank’s
SSNRP and the EU’s SHC program into a Palestinian National Cash Transfer Program
(PNCTP) brought about economies of scale, reducing duplication of efforts and overlaps.
Thanks to the training and the merger, MOSA can now use staff more efficiently.
Compared to the situation in 2004 when there were many assistance programs financed
and carried out on the basis of different criteria and implementation modalities, the same
data base is now used for targeting and project design, not only by the EU and the Bank,
but also by other ministries and agencies as well as other donors. The cost of all these
improvements was modest, considering that most of the money was used for benefit
payments to eligible households. 20




19
 West Bank and Gaza – Targeting Assessment of the Cash Transfer Program – MNSSP MENA – Report
No.: ACS890 – June 25, 2012. P129124.

20
  Ninety-two percent of all the financing under the SSNRP went to beneficiary households. Although
precise figures are not available, the ratio is very similar for the EU financing.



                                                  40
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                    Responsibility/
          Names                        Title               Unit
                                                                      Specialty
Lending

David Steel             Lead Operations Officer           MNSHD Task Team Leader
Claus Pram Astrup       Country Officer                   MNCO4 Economics
Stefanie Stallmeister   Social Protection Specialist      MNSHD Social protection
Mario Zelaya            Consultant                        MNSHD Co-TTL
Nawaf Al-Mahamel        Counsel                           LEGMS Legal
Majed El-Bayya          Procurement Specialist            MNACS Procurement
Husam Abu Dagga         Operations Officer                MNSRE Operations
Francisco V. Ayala      Consultant                        MNSHD CCT
Christina Abdel Shafi   Consultant                        MNSHD Social Assistance
Sima W. Kanaan          Institutional Development Spec.   MNSHD Institutional Dev.
Celine Gavach           Operations Analyst                MNSHD Operations
Alia Achsien            Program Assistant                 MNSHD ACS
Samira Ahmed Hillis     Operations Analyst                MNCO4 Operations
Hisham Labadi           Consultant                        MNCO4 Procurement
Ayman Abu-Haija         Financial Management Specialist   MNAFM Finance
Jeanine Braithwaite     Sr Economist                      ESCHD CCT
Suha Rabah              Program Assistant                 MNCO4 ACS
Maniza Maqvi            Social Protection Specialist      AFTSE Social Protection
Abdallah Awad           Information Officer               MNCO4 IT
Bahattin Buyuksahin     Consultant                        MNSSP Statistics
Darcy Gallucio          Consultant                        HDNSP Social Protection
Margaret Eleen Grosh    Lead Economist                    LCHSP Social Protection
Nathalie Pazimino       Consultant                        EASHD Social Protection
John Blomquist          Lead Economist                    MNSHD Social Protection

Supervision/ICR

Samira Ahmed Hillis     Senior Operations Officer         MNSSP   Task Team Leader
Christina Abdel Shafi   Consultant                        SASSP   Social Protection
Claus Pram Astrup       Senior Country Officer            AFCS1   Operations
Abdallah Awad           Information Officer               MNCGZ   IT MIS
Husam Abu Dagga         Lead Operations Officer           MNCO3   Operations
Francisco V. Ayala      Consultant                        SASSP   CCT
Siaka Bakayoko          Country Manager                   AFTOS   Finance
John D. Blomquist       Lead Economist                    SASSP   Economics
Bahattin Buyuksahin     Consultant                        MNCA4   Statistics




                                        41
(a) Task Team Members – Supervision/ICR (continued)

Lina Fathallah Rajoub    Procurement Specialist            MNAPC Procurement
Sima W. Kanaan           Manager                           WBIFC Operations
Ahmed Merzouk            Senior Procurement Specialist     SARPS Procurement
Afaf Khalil Abasi        Procurement Specialist            MNAPR Procurement
Eileen Murray            Country Manager                   MNCTN Operations
Philippe George Leitte   Sr. Social Protection Economist   AFTSW Economics
Surat F. Nsour           Operations Officer                MNSSP Operations
Adel Fahed J. Odeh       Operations Analyst                MNCGZ Finance
Radia Benamghar          Transport Specialist              SASDT Implementation
Antonio Cittati          Consultant                        MNAPR Procurement
David Steel              Lead Operations Officer           MNSHD Operations
Stefanie Stallmeister    Strategy & Operations Officer     ECAVP Operations
Evelyne Rodriguez        Consultant                        LCSHH Social Protection
Amy Champion             Operations Analyst                MNSHD Operations
Ayed Abu Ramadan         Operations Officer                MNCO4 Operations
Hjalte Sederlof          Consultant                        MNSSP Social Safety Net
Majd Laissoon            Financial Management Specialist   MNAFM Finance
Suha Rabah               Program Assistant                 MNCGZ ACS
Suhair M. Saah           Consultant                        MNAFM Finance
Mario Antonio Zelaya     Consultant                        MNSUR Implementation
Maha Bali                Program Assistant                 MNCGZ ACS
Laura McDonald           Consultant                        MNSHD ICR
Rania Atieh              ET Consultant                     MNSHD ICR
Lillian Frost            Consultant                        MNSHD ICR
Paul Geli                Consultant                        MNSHD ICR




                                         42
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                       USD Thousands
    Stage of Project Cycle
                             No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                       consultant costs)
 Lending

  FY03                               8.44                    36.68
  FY04                             100.82                   165.16
  FY05                              19.20                    24.15
  FY06                               0.20                     0.22
  FY07                               0.02                     0.10
 Total Lending:                   128.68                   226.31

 Supervision/ICR

  FY05                             53.36                     78.75
  FY06                             40.13                     86.27
  FY07                             33.48                    104.48
  FY08                             20.54                     63.70
  FY09                             18.46                     59.34
  FY10                             18.08                     54.51
  FY11                             29.25                     73.39
  FY 12                            27.87                     65.34
  FY 13                             7.66                     14.40
 Total Supervision/ICR:           248.83                    600.17




                                 43
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

5.1 Though a beneficiary survey has not been undertaken specifically on the Social
Safety Net Reform Project (SSNRP) beneficiaries, a Cash Transfer Program (CTP)
Targeting Assessment (P129124) was undertaken in the spring of 2012. It collected
information using a household survey which asked selected households (beneficiaries and
non-beneficiaries) in the West Bank and Gaza (WBG) about various aspects of the CTP.
It provided some information related to program processes, including: eligibility,
awareness, communications, sufficiency and priority uses of the cash transfer payment, as
well as household interaction with MOSA and timeliness of payments.

5.2 In the West Bank, the study found that most of the respondents had learned of the
program from family and friends followed by MOSA social workers. Most households
were not aware of MOSA’s selection criteria, and only a small portion (11 percent) of
non-beneficiaries was aware that they could make an official complaint regarding their
exclusion. A large majority (84 percent of beneficiaries) reported that MOSA dealt with
them well or very well. Slightly more than three-quarters (76 percent) of beneficiaries
reported receiving the full amount of cash assistance, with those reporting not receiving
the full amount not certain of the reason for this. Payments are, for the most part, timely
with 60 percent of beneficiaries reporting that delays never or rarely occur, and with only
15 percent indicating frequent delays. A majority (57.8 percent) indicated that they would
spend the cash on purchasing more food, with only 4 percent indicating saving any
portion of the cash transfer. Finally, 96.5 percent of beneficiaries indicated that the cash
transfer received was not enough to cover their needs in the previous quarter; 77 percent
of the beneficiaries indicated that they had to borrow money to cover expenses in the
previous 6 months and 81.5 percent indicated that they had to buy food on credit during
this time as the transfer amount received was insufficient.

5.3 In Gaza, a majority of respondents (63.2 percent) indicated that their main source of
assistance is from MOSA, with UNRWA being the second source of assistance (31.91
percent). In terms of regularity of payments, most of the households (58.4 percent)
indicated receiving the assistance twice in the past 6 months, while 40 percent reported
receiving assistance only once during this same time period. Similar to findings among
the West Bank sample, 58.2 percent of the sample indicated that they were not satisfied
with the amount of the cash transfer and 30 percent indicated that they were not satisfied
with the type of assistance they were provided.




                                            44
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable




                                   45
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                              Ministry of Social Affairs
                          Implementation Completion Report

                                  Executive Summary

Project Context at Initiation:

1.1      General Socioeconomic Conditions:
The project was initiated in 2004 at a time of ongoing deterioration in the socio economic
conditions in Palestine. During the last quarter of the year 2000 through to 2005, the
Israeli labour market was, and is still, blocked against the Palestinian labourers. Tens of
thousands of labourers lost their jobs and employment opportunities in the Israeli labour
market. The local market was too weak to absorb such large numbers; unemployment and
poverty increased to unprecedented figures much far beyond the capacity of the
Palestinian National Authority (PNA). The Israel Defense Army regularly incurred into
the Palestinian regions, cities, villages and refugee camps as well as imposed financial,
economic, commercial and social restrictions, which all aggravated the situation.
Unfortunately, the deterioration in the socioeconomic conditions continued after 2005.
For example, in 2007, absolute poverty increased by 70 percent and extreme poverty
almost doubled in comparison with the 2000 level, and placed heavier burden on the
PNA which was at the verge of collapse. Additionally, Israel continued, and still does, to
withhold the PNA tax dues collected on behalf of the PNA.

The accumulation of the negative effects of these restricting situations badly affected the
Palestinian households (HHs). They depleted their coping mechanisms and forced them
to resort to and pressure the PNA social programs as well as those of NGOs for
assistance.

1.2      Humanitarian and Social Services:
The Ministry of Social Affairs of the PNA (MOSA) is the authority which provides
relief, social and rehabilitation services to poor HHs and marginalized Palestinian groups.
MOSA intends to strengthen its humanitarian services and their delivery through the
establishment of an efficient, effective and comprehensive social protection program
aimed at reducing poverty and empowering the poor, the deprived and the marginalized
individuals and HHs so that they rely on themselves and come out of the poverty circle.
The Government has mandated MOSA to lead the Palestinian social protection sector
through two PNA successive Plans for Reform.

The largest assistance program which MOSA provided to the poor is the Special
Hardship Cases Program (SHCP) in terms of coverage and budget. In 2004, the SHCP
was using a status-based approach to target poor HHs and individuals, i.e.
HHs/individuals who fall within one or more of the marginalization categories such as
old aged, widows, orphans, sick people, persons with disabilities ... etc. The program
provided assistance to many poor HHs but many others were unjustifiably deprived of



                                            46
assistance simply because they were outside the set categories. Many beneficiaries were
less poor than other non beneficiaries, too. Eligibility assessment for the SHCP was
subjective and depended mainly on the judgment of the social worker based on non-
verifiable variables. The program was inflexible and did not allow expansion particularly
during emergency situations similar to those Palestine lived during the years 2000 –
2007. The benefit was set mostly on a rule of the thumb and was much less below the
needs of a HH. The Program data base required much enhancement; it was not of much
help for informed decision making and planning. MOSA was helpless and could not do
much to ease down the situation.


 The Israeli practices were the major cause for the failure to improve the poverty situation in
 Palestine yet, other factors contributed to it as well: shortage of financing, weak poverty
 reduction/alleviation policies, ineffective targeting strategies, poor service delivery, and poor
 coordination between service providers. Poor coordination and the lack of good data and
 modern database reduced the capacity to analyze data, allocate resources fairly, target the
 real poor and assist the poorest of the poor.


1.3     The World Bank intervention:
The World Bank realized that the socioeconomic problem in Palestine is multi faceted,
therefore, it made a timely intervention through assisting the PNA with the launching of
its emergency program in 2002 (the Emergency Support Services Project - ESSP). It also
launched a pilot project aimed at reforming the Social Safety Net of MOSA for a
more equitable, fair, accountable, relevant and transparent program for addressing
poverty in 2004 (the Social Safety Net Reform Project - SSNRP). It was evident from
available documents that the contribution of the Bank in this regard was timely and
worthwhile. It was highly appreciated by the PNA, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the
Palestinian poor.

It is worth mentioning that the EU, at that time and is still, supported the benefit of the
SHCP through a cash grant payable quarterly in a lump sum to all beneficiaries HHs in
the Program. The EU is currently implementing an institution building for MOSA. The
WFP is already distributing food items to SHC HHs according to pre set family size
groups.

2.     The Social Safety Net Reform Project (SSNRP):
2.1    General:
The SSNRP was initiated in 2004 through a specific Trust Fund grant (TFG) and, later
on, was supported by three more grants for its cash component as follows:




                                            47
                           Table showing details about grants
Grant title           Agreement Amount           Date              Date            Date
                                                 Approved          Effective       concluded
SSNRP – Original      P081477      $       10 June3, 2004          Aug. 4, 2004    Jun. 30,2012
                                   million
SSNRP-                P109304      $       10 Apr.22,2008          Dec.10,2008     Jun. 30,2012
Additional                         million
Financing(AF)
Global Food Trust P 113117          $              5 Nov,12,2008   Mar. 5,2009
Fund                                million
Global Food Trust P 117320          $3.4             Mar.26, 2010 May 20,2010
Fund – AF                           million

It, initially, intended to pilot a conditional cash transfer based on proxy means testing
(PMT) approach. A formula consisting of poverty verifiable variables measure the
welfare (poverty) of applicants and if the calculated welfare/poverty score of the HH was
below a pre set poverty line (cut off point), the HH was said to be poor; or poorest of the
poor if much down below the poverty line/cut off point. The reference poverty line/cut
off point was, then, the national poverty line as represented by a cutoff point/score of 5.9
and developed by the Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics (PCBS).

The SSNRP provided a subset of the poorest of the poor with a lump sum of NIS 200 per
HH + NIS 28 per each family member per month. It was not known how the amount of
the assistance (benefit) was established. The benefit was made payable once every two
months through mechanisms, operation manuals and instructions developed specifically
for the SSNRP. It was thought that if the PMT proved to be feasible in the Palestinian
context, it would be adopted to reform the SHCP for better addressing of poverty and for
better impact on the poor.

Unfortunately, and due to several reasons, the SSNRP developed into a small
independent program targeting a subset of poor people. A special data base was
established for it and a simple physical infrastructure was put up. Training relevant to the
SSNRP was covered by the project. Additionally, a core project unit to help manage the
SSNRP was set up and was covered by the TFG. Additional staffing, mainly social
workers were provided by MOSA. During the first four years the TFG was financially
administered by the Ministry of Finance (MOF).

2.2     The SSNRP Structure:
The original TFG had two main components; one was cash assistance with school
education and primary health care conditionality, beneficiaries HHs were to ensure their
children attended schools and primary health care centres. The conditionality was
irrelevant to the Palestinian context for an already high attendance rate in both cases.
The Bank rightly deleted the conditionality and changed its title from “Conditional
Cash Transfer Grants? to “Pilot Cash Transfer Program for Poor HHs?. If
maintained, the conditionality could have resulted in adverse effects on the project. In


                                              48
the medium term, it could have caused some non beneficiaries to develop passive
attitudes, e.g. withdraw their children from the schools in an attempt to get the assistance.
The Bank also realized that the PNA in 2005-2006 was almost bankrupt for low tax
collection rate, discontinuity of donor assistance. It was more relevant and fruitful to
invest the conditionality allocations in cash subsidies for wider coverage of poor HHs;
the targets, both outputs and outcomes, were revised accordingly.

The second component related to supporting the capacity of the relevant Ministries to
manage the conditionality part. But once the conditionality of the first component was
removed and limited to “mitigate the impact of poverty?, the second component was
changed to focus strengthening the capacity of MOSA to manage its cash transfer
program.

2.3     The SSNRP Development Objective:
The original project had two development objectives (PDOs); the first one was “protect
and enhance the human capital of children from the poorest HHs in the West Bank and
Gaza? by promoting an increase in the school attendance rates and improvements in the
health status of children 0 – 18 years old. The PDO was revised to read “mitigate the
impact of the continued socio-economic crisis on a subset of the poorest and most
vulnerable HHs?. The revision was worthwhile within the financial crisis the PNA was
encountering. The risks of achievement were much lesser, too.

The second original objective was “strengthen the institutional capacity of the MOSA to
assist in efficiently and effectively carrying out the SHC program, its main social
assistance program?. And as the conditionality on the first PDO was removed, the
second PDO was also revised to read “strengthen the institutional capacity of MOSA to
manage cash transfer programs?. The additional financing (AF) agreement for $ 10
million and the two Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund Grant Agreements
maintained both revised PDOs.

The revised PDOs are wider in scope, more reflective of the future direction of MOSA
and the SSNRP and in alignment with the vision and objectives of MOSA. They enabled
MOSA to better realize the PDOs and address poverty in Palestine and facilitated the
merging of the SSNRP and the SHCP later on.

2.4     Other Material revisions:
The Palestinian context necessitated the revision of output and outcome targets as well as
a revision of the name of category 1 of the withdrawal of grants proceeds table to “Pilot
Cash Transfers?. This is to align with the changes in the development objectives and to
stress the nature of the SSNRP as a “Pilot Cash Transfers Project/Program?.

2.5     Project Implementation:
2.5.1 Pioneer to adopt best practices:
At the start of the implementation, the top management of MOSA (the Minister) went out
for public targeting. 150,000 applications were received; a huge number much beyond
any capacity of MOSA. The certification process took quite a long time to start and the



                                             49
data entry was not at its best. However, MOSA got the first group of beneficiaries on and
made the first and second payments on a trial basis but as from the third payment on
all payments were made only through certified eligibility based on PMTF. By it,
Palestine was the first country in the MENA region to apply pilot means testing in
its CTs. It has been a pioneer successful initiative for which the Bank and MOSA
should be commended; it is one which both the MOSA and the World Bank can be
proud of and cherish.

MOSA, at the start, encountered several delays and difficulties: the country was just
coming out of five hard years, the donor community discontinued its assistance to the
PNA, the Israeli Government froze transferring the PNA tax dues and Gaza incurred a
severe cash liquidity problem for many months. The relatively high turnover at the level
of Ministers did not make things easier for the project. The split in authority in the PNA
had some implementation negative effects, too.

During the period until 2009, The World Bank field team in WBG appeared much
concerned about the certification process and strict adherence to Bank procedures. The
certification of HHs in large numbers during a short period was instated as a pre
condition for further disbursements on several occasions, a matter which appeared
cumbersome for MOSA at Field and HQ levels. Field workers, i.e. social workers and
their supervisors were most affected and fatigued. Apparently in 2010 and afterwards,
the bank was sure about proper adherence to procedures, instructions, mechanisms and
other implementation issues, as such it focused technical matters and building the
capacity of MOSA.

2.5.2 Training, Certification and Recertification:
Errors inherent in the PMT caused trouble to MOSA and its field staff. MOSA decided
to certify/recertify beneficiaries once a year and to give proper training to its relevant
staff to improve the quality of collected data and reduce errors. Initially, training was
carried at regional level but later on and in order to bring field workers West Bank wide
to a common understanding, it was organized West Bank wide. It was hard but with the
high level of planning, organization and implementation, the training was successful.
Later checks on data showed that error variations between the regions decreased. MOSA
was proud of its successful training strategy.

However, whilst training and systematic recertification reduced errors, still eligibility
external checks referred to data inaccuracies. The problem perhaps could be further
reduced in case visits by seniors are institutionalized and norms are made for them.
The visits should be associated with an accountability system in the sense that
seniors will be held responsible for conducting these visits and that field workers
committing errors will be held responsible and accounted for them. Once, an
accountability system has been established and in proper functioning, further reductions
in errors should be realized.




                                           50
 Another activity to reduce errors and on which MOSA is currently doing detailed research is
 to gather field information on variables that are not on the PMTF but which may correlate
 with poverty. One such an example recently identified has been to separate out the
 expenditure on a person with disability and instate it as a variable on the data collection
 tools next consumption and expenditure national survey is carried out by PCBS. Again,
 such research indicates strong political will and commitment on the side of MOSA and its
 Minister to exert best efforts to reduce errors and establish a fair, transparent and
 accountable system. The result of such endeavours is reflected in an evaluation carried by
 the World Bank and other externals where the rate of errors in the CTP was very small and
 was about 10%-12%.


2.5.3 Achievements of the SSNRP:
2.5.3.1General: The project began with the certification of 150,000 HH applications with
very modest arrangements and capacity; things moved slowly and at a certain point,
seemed to have reached a standstill. Areas of bottlenecks seemed to be fiduciary issues
such as opening a bank account, reconciling beneficiary payments, quick replenishment
of the sub-accounts. They mostly related to weak institutional capacity and procedures at
both MOSA and MOF; they were resolved through responsible negotiations between the
PNA and the Bank.

However, the SSNRP was able to achieve its targets: provided timely assistance to
around 5,000 HHs, certified and recertified current beneficiaries and new applications
and made a timely payment of two further grants to around 25,000 HHs relating to
mitigating the effect of the World Food Crisis on poor countries.

One of the major achievements of the project has been the introduction of the
concept of PMT in addressing poverty in low income countries to MOSA, local
NGOs, other service providers and major donors. A second major achievement was
the development of a merger strategy to reform the SHCP and unify the SSNRP and
the SHCP; an achievement which was a turning point in MOSA’s CT Program.

Other achievements were: revising the operation manual, training of social workers and
hundreds of volunteers on data collection tools and keyboarding, reviewing eligibility of
current beneficiaries, reviewing empowerment interventions, monitoring and collecting
data on potential new variables, etc. The Data base was much enhanced from its simple
version and began to provide better data for an informed decision making. Additionally,
it encouraged other donors to seriously consider aligning their criteria with that of
the project.

2.5.3.2 The Reform of the SHCP:
A -Rationale:
The SSNRP was originally designed to reform MOSA SHC program; that was its
underlying purpose and the ultimate goal. It was supposed to pilot best practices in
the Cash Transfers in Palestine. However, due to practical reasons it developed to a
program of its own, though small in coverage, which created a dualism in the provision



                                           51
of cash assistance to poor individuals and HHs. Different criteria were applied as well as
different standards of payments or rights. It was also felt that the co-existence of two
programs did not in fact reduce poverty; there was no common language between the
two. The benefits provided by both were limited and did not realize the desired positive
impact on beneficiaries. Overall management and coordination required institutional and
program development, transparency, governance and accountability. Inadequate IT
systems and database did not allow proper analysis and in-depth understanding of what
was happening on the ground and hindered development of new or different approaches
to targeting and informed decision making. The lack of coordination and the
involvement of so many different providers, programs and targeting strategies made it
more and more difficult to maximize benefits, avoid duplication and ensure optimal
utilisation of resources.

B - Unification/Reform of CTs and Achievements:
MOSA and the government realized the fragmentation in which cash subsidies were
delivered. Accordingly, MOSA, encouraged and assisted by the World Bank,
brought the two cash assistance programs into one CTP through a merger strategy.
The strategy also facilitated the unification of the targeting, the base for benefit
setting, work manuals, procedures and norms, mechanisms, instructions, HR
development and database and set the guidelines for integrating other service
providers. In implementing the reform (unification of CTs), MOSA capitalized on the
advantages of both the SSNRP and SHCs and established the “Palestinian National Cash
Transfer Program? (PNCTP or CTP for short). MOSA transferred to it eligible current
case loads from both the SSNRP and the SHCP. Each individual case was recertified and
re-assessed according to the PMTF. Based on the merits of the case, it was transferred to
the new CTP for continued benefits. Other current beneficiaries who were not eligible
were transferred to a temporary assistance program (TAP) for gradual phasing out.

The reform brings the CTs in alignment with the MOSA goals and the PDOs of the
SSNRP. It also enables MOSA to better use the CTP as a development tool, basically
to empower poor families to adapt, come out of the poverty circle and contribute to the
development of their local communities. Social workers, through cash transfers,
encourage families to rationalize expenditure in a manner that would enhance their
human capital, e.g. children education or training. Taking advantage of the stability of
the benefit, social workers would also urge families to develop their assets, e.g. get credit
for a micro project and/or open savings account for the family or its children. Eventually,
the reform will also integrate all other CTs operating in Palestine into one national
program for better addressing of poverty, e.g. wider coverage, relevance of the
benefit, elimination of duplication, lower costs and maximum fund utilization, improved
institutional arrangement, better service delivery, higher confidence and trust in the
program, improved poverty data base and statistics and possibly increase in funds.

 MOSA envisioned the reform as a big step towards building the National Cash Transfer
 Program where all CTs in Palestine will be integrated through a participatory approach for
 better addressing of poverty, wider coverage, lower errors and duplication, cost saving and
 certainly better resource allocation and quality service and service delivery. MOSA counts
 on the new CTP also to urge steps towards building the National Social Protection Program
 which it has been entrusted to set up and administer. MOSA wishes to gain the trust and
 confidence of the donors and the public for more support to the CTP.
                                             52
It is worth noting that the Bank contributed to introducing the reform to other
donors, e.g. the EU, UNRWA and the WFP. Currently, some of them have adopted
the concept and others, e.g. the EU has put in additional funds for further
refinement of the PMTF as well as strengthening the capacity of MOSA.

C - Major Components of the Unification:
Targeting: The SSNRP concentrated on the poorest of the poor at the lowest 10 percent
of the absolute poverty line; at best, the target group was around 36,000 families in
Palestine, i.e. one fourth the poor under the extreme poverty line at the time. The SSNRP
used to assist around 5,000 families or around 8 percent of current beneficiaries of CTs.

The SHC program basically targeted the poor through a status-based approach. It then,
was able to assist around 52,000 HHs representing one third of those under the extreme
poverty line. It represented around 92 percent of beneficiaries of MOSA CTs before the
reform.

For the new CTP, MOSA will target the poor under the Palestinian extreme poverty
line as assessed by the PMTF. The new strategy will allow wider coverage of the
real poor in Palestine.

Targeting people under the Palestinian extreme poverty line was the narrowest scope for
MOSA to go with in the light of its vision and long-term strategy for social protection. It
targets the lowest number of poor people among other lines and consequently was less
costly. The target group was relatively smaller and with the limited funds, it was
considered more appropriate to start with supporting smaller group rather than spreading
the limited funds too thinly over larger numbers and having little or no impact on the
plight of the poorest HHs. To provide a reasonable amount of financial support per HH
was the only rational approach that can be adopted at this time. Similarly, targeting only
part of the poor under extreme poverty would prolong the poverty problem and would not
enable progression towards its reduction; it also would not help proper coverage and
making optimal utilization of available funding.

It is a cautious targeting approach reflecting MOSA’s accountability and commitment for
a sustainable CTP and one that would allow transparent, gradual and systematic
alleviation/ reduction of poverty through upgrading the targeting from one level of
poverty to another commensurate with available funding, scope of poverty and the wider
scope of the national social protection program.

D - Assessment of Welfare and Eligibility of HHs: Eligibility under the SHC was
determined based on whether a HH fell under one or more of the set categories provided
that it did not have an income threshold established on rule of the thumb for each HH.
The SSNRP used the PMTF for establishing the eligibility of a HH for assistance.

MOSA needed a transparent, fair and accountable mechanism with minimal human factor
errors. On comparison, MOSA decided to adopt the Proxy Means Testing approach
of the SSNRP for it meeting the criteria. The PMT, through its Formula and



                                            53
verifiable variables, enables to prioritize the poor for setting priorities, allocation of
resources, expansion and contraction purposes. However, establishing the eligibility
of an individual/HH under the new CTP does not automatically entitle them to
assistance. Receiving assistance is basically dependant on availability of funds.

MOSA updated the operating PMTF to reflect recent changes in the PCBS 2007
consumption and expenditure survey. Between June, 2009 and January, 2010, the PMTF
was reviewed through technical assistance from both the EU and the World Bank and
was streamlined with the methodology of PCBS. However, the final one in current use
was developed by a Bank specialist in association with MOSA, the consultant and the
PCBS; it better reflected the social conditions and poverty in Palestine and more robust in
terms of inclusion/exclusion errors. The staff of the PCBS were heavily involved in the
review so that in case of future updates they can do it themselves for MOSA.
For fairness, transparency, relevance and accountability, MOSA will ensure that the
PMTF is updated regularly simultaneous with the Consumption and Expenditure Surveys
of PCBS.

E - Certification/Recertification: MOSA has decided to maintain its policy to
certify/recertify beneficiaries once a year; a reasonable and practical period for the
purpose. The policy coupled with the review of beneficiaries each payment cycle starting
January, 2011 will enable MOSA to give priority to the poorest. For the purpose of
unification, MOSA recertified the beneficiaries of both the SSNRP and SHCP and those
who proved eligible by the PMTF were transferred to the new CTP.

F - Benefit Level: Each of the SSNRP and the SHCP used a universal approach for
setting the benefit, yet each of them used a different modality. The universality approach
is easier to use but it is not fair or transparent in the sense that the amount of the benefit is
normally set by the rule of thumb. The MOSA has opted for “bridging the gap of
poverty of the HH? where the amount of benefit is set based on the difference of the
calculated welfare of the HH and the deep poverty line. As such, a HH in theory gets an
equivalent amount to its actual need. However, this might be costly and might entitle a
poor family to an amount equal to or above the salary of an employed person – a matter
that might discourage poor people from work. MOSA developed a reasonable level that
would not offer very small or high amounts of benefit.

The option MOSA has taken is based on bridging 50 percent of the HH gap but
within the limits of NIS 250 – 600 a month. Further checks carried out by the World
Bank were made at later stages proved that the approach enabled MOSA to reach the
highest percent of bridging the poverty gap among the MENA region countries as well
one of the highest worldwide. One of the advantages of “bridge the poverty gap? is
its lower cost. However, the precision of predicting budgets is lower than the universal
approach.

G - Other reform issues: Other reform issues included: communicating the reform to its
audiences, the absorption of the SSNRP team into the structure of the MOSA, integrating
other service providers, HR development, establishing work norms and updating



                                               54
procedures amongst other things. It is unfortunate that several issues of these have not
been addressed yet. This is attributed to the huge work load the MOSA is assuming in
implementing the new CTP with limited HR and logistics. The MOSA and the Bank
have to be commended for persistence to bring the reform into light and
implementing it. It has become more or less the best project in the MENA region
and among the best ones worldwide yet, MOSA still needs technical and financial
assistance from the Bank to complete the implementation of the reform. It is true
that MOSA is currently receiving technical assistance from another donor, but
based on the observations of the Bank Monitoring missions of 2011, it seems as if
MOSA would not go the same direction of the reform. The World Bank would
possibly have to review the situation for completing and sustaining what it has
realized with the MOSA; it is in the interest of the Bank, MOSA, the region and the
enhancement of the best practices in this field worldwide.

3.    Monitoring and Evaluation:
3.1   Monitoring by the Bank:
The Bank monitored the project through more than one way:
    - Quarterly progress reports prepared by the SSNRP team once every three months
      including achievements for the quarter; certification/recertification, financial,
      payments, procurement ... etc. In most cases, the reports were accepted by the
      World Bank. It was only in one or two cases, the report was returned to MOSA
      for further clarification. The Bank used to report satisfactory acceptance.
    - Semi annual missions: the missions consisted of World Bank staff from the Field
      and HQ. The missions used to hold meetings with MOSA team and discuss major
      issues. In several instances, the mission visited HHs to check the accuracy and
      reliability of supplied data. It rarely happened that field visits uncovered
      ineligible beneficiaries. Procurement seemed to have been an issue of some
      dissatisfaction by the Bank team yet it rarely happened that a procurement was
      disqualified for reimbursement by the Bank.
      The visit of the mission used to be documented by an ‘Aide Memoire’. Several
      Aide Memoires included what was termed as ‘effectiveness conditions’. Some of
      these conditions looked excessive, for example, requesting MOSA to recertify
      some 37,000 HHs during a period that MOSA could not do except with a special
      drive, higher cost and additional burden.
    - Ad hoc visits in between the missions: these visits seemed to be courtesy routine
      visits to do ad hoc informal check on progress. They were not documented but
      they were referred to in the Aide Memoires of the relevant period.
    - Assessments carried out by a technical expert from the Bank HQs. These were
      basically related to targeting and or coverage. The assessments there all
      commended the progress of the project and classified it as one among the best.

3.2    Monitoring by PNA:
3.2.1 Internal PNA Control:
These are checks carried out by the Internal Control Unit of the PNA. The Control Unit
checks the payments to beneficiaries for eligibility and for adherence to financial
procedures. In the past, it used to take relatively long time to do the checking which



                                          55
caused some delays. The Unit also carries out spot checks and reviews more than one
aspect of the program. In several cases of difference, the reason was mostly related to
differences in handling an issue between PNA and Bank procedures and, to a lesser
extent, to obsolete HH data.

3.2.2 External Audit:
The external audit checked the eligibility of the beneficiaries, fiduciary issues or the
impact of the project on beneficiaries. Additionally, assessments of project targeting and
or coverage were carried out.

External Audit reports reviewed were (not by date order):
    - Impact Evaluation for Additional Financing for Food Crisis, July, 2010
    - Assessment of MOSA targeting system, June, 2012
    - Assessment of the efficiency of the PMTF in determining eligibility of
        beneficiaries,(undated)
    - Independent Auditors’ Report on Cash Receipts and Disbursement Statement,
        July, 2007
    - Memorandum of suggestions for the Improvement of Internal Controls, June,
        2008
    - Letter of Management for auditing the Financial Statements, December, 2011
    - Independent Auditors Report on Financial Statements, December, 2011
    - Independent Auditors Report on the Financial Statements, July, 2012
Generally speaking, the evaluations issued “unqualified? opinion and reports, few minor
issues were raised in one or two of them: use of budgets, bank forms, and data about the
residence of few visited beneficiaries. In one Financial Audit, the auditor issued a
qualified opinion, but that was cleared as indicated by relevant documents. Consequently,
the project was progressing satisfactorily, realizing its objectives and making impact. No
corruption or other misuse of funds; minor of major were reported.

4.      Performance Evaluation:
4.1     The Bank: During the first three or four years, the Bank looked much concerned
and very strict and gave much attention to adherence to procedures, instructions and
mechanisms. It looked more concerned about the first PDO and seemed to be giving less
technical guidance to empower the MOSA team. During the period mid 2010 and after,
the Bank looked more relaxed and offered valuable technical guidance to MOSA. The
Bank seemed to have realized that more technical advice was needed to be offered to
MOSA. The Aide Memoire of May, 2011 and the clarifications on MOSA strategies
developed through other donations were good examples on the proper technical
assistance provided by the Bank to MOSA in time of need; it flagged a risk that MOSA
would run into visa vie these strategies. The work of the Bank can be evaluated as
satisfactory during the first period and highly satisfactory during the second period.
However, taking into consideration the great achievements made by the reform with close
monitoring and advice from the Bank during the second period, the overall performance
of the Bank could be fairly evaluated as highly satisfactory.
4.2     MOSA: the circumstances during the period 2004 – 2009 did not look favourable
to MOSA. Several major political and socio economic situations as well as the little



                                           56
capacity building efforts from the Bank limited MOSA’s capability to proceed with the
project at a more reasonable pace. Yet, MOSA possibly could have pushed things to go
more speedily during the first three or four years. The achievements of the project were
not up to the high expectations planned for it up till 2009, yet it was able to achieve its
first PDO by reaching the target subset of poor refugees and providing them with timely
and regular assistance. As such, the report feels that the performance of MOSA can be
rated at satisfactory during the period. In 2010 and after, it was obvious that MOSA
exerted its best efforts to make the project and the reform a success and coupled with the
Bank’s stronger technical hand, the project was able to go forward much more quickly
and achieve results much beyond what was initially expected. The performance of
MOSA could be evaluated at highly satisfactory.

4.3      Project Objectives:
The conditionality of the project in the early stages was not of much relevance to the
Palestinian context, it was also difficult to achieve in terms of monitoring and in terms of
the attitudes of the target group. The revision carried out at a later stage was timely and
very much relevant to the context and was easier to achieve and to monitor. The revised
PDOs enabled MOSA, through the reform, to reach around 93,000 HHs within a short
period. Coupled with the external evaluation comments that the project had impact on
the lives of the beneficiaries, the first objective of the project seemed to have been met
fairly well. As such, the end results and outputs relating to the first objective can be rated
at highly satisfactory. The second objective of building the capacity of MOSA to
manage its CT programs did not seem to have been given by both the Bank and the
MOSA its dues; more could have been done under the objective. Its results and outputs
could be evaluated as satisfactory. The overall rating of the PDOs can be fairly stated at
highly satisfactory.

5.       Gaza issue:
Initially the MOSA was instated in Gaza and the SSNRP was run from there. But with
Hamas splitting from Authority, its management was restored to Ramallah. The
operational functions in Gaza were carried out by the old staff of the MOSA, i.e. those
who were working on it before the split. At a later stage, Hamas took over the
operational functions but work procedures were maintained. Gaza sent its lists to
Ramallah and Ramallah used to process them for payment.

In 2009, the PMTF was updated. Gaza initially did not take the PMTF update and
continued with the old version. MOSA Ramallah initiated a lengthy dialogue on aligning
the work in Gaza with that in the West Bank. Fortunately, the effort succeeded and
currently, the work in Gaza is fully aligned. Gaza applications are certified/recertified and
their eligibility assessed similar to what happens in the West Bank, quite a positive step.
Poor people in Gaza receive their entitlements the same way West Bankers do. One or
two operational issues are still pending, but so far they are not affecting the operations.

6.     Jerusalem Issue:
Jerusalem is a different and difficult story. MOSA appointed social workers to work in
Jerusalem, but unfortunately, once the Israeli authorities knew about it, they stopped the



                                             57
operation immediately. MOSA is not sure now on how to go about it. However,
Jerusalem is a political problem which needs a political solution. Whether the Bank
would give hand is a question to consider.

7.       Some of the lessons learned are:

     -   By all evaluations, the project (SSNRP) has achieved its objectives satisfactorily.
         The report believes that the circumstances leading to the initiation of the project
         in 2004 are still there, though at a lesser extent. As such, the Bank still bears
         responsibility to further strengthen the CTP of MOSA and to continue the
         provision of both the cash grant and the technical support for at least a period of 3
         – 5 years to allow the PMTF to stabilize and the CTP to develop into a national
         one. Leaving such a successful project at a critical cross road may affect its
         sustainability which is not in the interest of stakeholders including the Bank. The
         lesson to learn is: ensure and support the sustainability of the reform and CTP.
     -   The project documents reviewed by the writer indicate a trend on the side of the
         Bank to instate pre conditions for doing an activity or reimbursement. It was also
         noticed that misprocurement issues basically related to differences between the
         Bank’s procedures, rules and terms and those of the PNA and the ignorance of
         project staff of those differences. A lesson to learn is: streamline, simplify and
         align project procedures, rules, terms, manuals, instructions, norms ... etc with
         those of the grantee.
     -   The Bank has done quite a good job in intensifying its technical assistance to
         MOSA mid 2010 and afterwards particularly for updating the PMTF.
         Tremendous improvement was
         achieved both in technical terms and in building the capacity of MOSA relevant
         staff. Yet, an imbalance in focus between the first and the second PDOs was
         noticed. A lesson to learn is: ensure plans include balanced activities and
         monitoring indicators on each of the objectives of the project. In the case of the
         SSNRP, the balance was more on the side of the first PDO; the second objective
         was given much lower importance.
     -   Positive communication between the Ministry and the Bank team in the field
         improved mid 2010 and afterwards; it was very noticeable. It seemed to have
         improved the working relations between relevant staff of the Bank and MOSA
         and consequently facilitated a better achievement of results. The lesson to learn
         is: maintain positive communication within the project and between the project
         and stakeholders. Both the Bank and MOSA may wish to consider developing a
         joint communication strategy to serve both sides in Palestine and be a model for
         other countries where the Bank runs similar projects.
     -   The Bank has developed reasonable coordination and working relationships with
         other project stakeholders. However, the Bank would wish to intensify
         monitoring the direction of the assistance provided by some stakeholders to avoid
         possible misalignment with the reform and the project. The lesson to learn is:
         maintain and promote good coordination within the reform and the project as well
         as with and between stakeholders.




                                              58
   -   It was evident that involving the reform and project staff brought lots of benefits
       particularly in improving the PMTF. The lesson to learn is: maintain and promote
       the participation of staff and other stakeholders in the various phases of the
       reform and the project.
   -   MOSA was able to reduce inclusion/exclusion errors through a variety of
       activities; the major one was researching variables that affect the welfare of poor
       people not existent in the PMTF. The activity contributed to reducing targeting
       errors. A lesson to learn is: maintain and promote research to better inform
       decision making.
   -   MOSA developed few workload norms which improved productivity,
       performance management, achievement of objectives and governance and
       accountability, e.g. case load for social workers. A lesson to learn is: maintain
       and develop norms for the various types of activities in the reform/project.
   -   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). Both activities proved to be a good support
       for informed decision making for the CTP and the Ministry itself. The lesson to
       learn is: maintain the M&E function, promote and institutionalize it in all aspects
       of the reform/ project as well as other programs.
   -   MOSA carried out several activities to develop its human and institutional
       capacities which contributed to the professional development of staff and the
       improvement of several systems and the data base. The lesson to learn is:
       maintain and promote capacity and institution building activities.
   -   MOSA has now reached an extremely wide coverage which it may not be able to
       sustain within the worsening financial resources of the PNA. MOSA alone will
       not be able to reduce poverty in Palestine. A lesson to take is: develop and
       promote the participation and integration of other service providers in the CTP so
       that the CTP becomes a national program where all concerned are joined in.
       MOSA also needs to take a sit back and collate and conclude the lessons before it
       goes farther; there are several loose ends that require tightening and enhancement
       as well.

Revised October 31, 2012




                                           59
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable.




                                    60
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   1. World Bank. (2002). Palestine: The current socio-economic crisis and the
      Ministry of Social Affairs. Report 25262-GZ.

   2. World Bank (April 5, 2004). Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Trust
      Fund Grant in the Amount of USD10.0 million equivalent to the West Bank and
      Gaza for a Social Safety Net Reform Project. Report No. 27761-GZ

   3. Agreed Minutes of Negotiations between Palestine Liberation Organization (for
      the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority) (Recipient) and International
      Development Association regarding the Social Safety Net Reform Project (April
      12 – 13, 2004).

   4. Trust Fund Grant Agreement (Social Safety Net Reform Project) between
      Palestine Liberation Organization (for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority)
      and International Development Association (as Administrator of the Trust Fund
      for West Bank and Gaza). Dated July 19, 2004.

   5. Seventh Quality-at-Entry Assessment (QEA7) Fiscal Year 2004-2005. Investment
      Lending Questionnaires.

   6. Letter (May 17, 2006) Re: West Bank and Gaza: Social Safety Net Reform
      Project (TF053793) Amendment to the TFGA.

   7. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the IBRD to the
      Executive Directors on a Proposal to Restructure the Social Safety Net Reform
      Project (Grant no. TF053793-GZ) for the Palestinian Authority (May 16, 2007).

   8. Agreed Minutes of Negotiations – Additional Financing (March 24, 2008).

   9. Letter (April 23, 2008) Re: West Bank and Gaza: Social Safety Net Reform
      Project (TF053793) Amendment to the TFGA.

   10. Engineering and Management Consulting Center (EMCC) (August 1, 2008). Ex-
       post Review of the Social Safety Net Reform Project (SSNRP) in the West Bank
       and Gaza Strip. Executive Summary.

   11. Trust Fund Grant Agreement (Social Safety Net Reform Project – Additional
       Financing). Dated September 11, 2008.

   12. World Bank (October 31, 2008). Project Paper on an Emergency Additional
       Financing Grant under the Global Food Crisis Response Program in the Amount
       of US$5.0 million to the Palestine Liberation Organization (for the Benefit of the
       Palestinian Authority) for the Social Safety Net Project. Report No. 45236-GZ




                                           61
13. Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund Grant Agreement (Social Safety Net
    Reform Project – Additional Food Crisis Financing). December 19, 2008.

14. EMCC (March 2009). Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements of the SSNRP in
    the West Bank and Gaza Strip.

15. EMCC (March 2009). Eligibility Review of Households for the SSNRP in the
    West Bank and Gaza Strip. Funded by the World Bank.

16. Agreed Minutes of Negotiations Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund Social
    Safety Net Reform Project – Second Additional Financing (March 2-4, 2010).

17. World Bank (March 15, 2010). Project Paper on an Emergency Additional
    Financing Grant under the Global Food Crisis Response Program in the Amount
    of US$3.4 million. Report No. 51675-GZR

18. Palestinian National Authority. Social Protection Sector Strategy. Ministry of
    Social Affairs. April 2010.

19. Food Price Crisis response Trust Fund Grant Agreement (Social Safety Net
    Reform Project – Second Additional Food Crisis Financing). April 18, 2010.

20. World Bank (June 15, 2010). Restructuring paper for a Proposed Project
    Restructuring of the Social Safety Net Reform Project (SSNRP) Grant approved
    on June 3, 2005. Report No. 54751-GZ

21. EMCC (July 28, 2010). Impact Evaluation for Additional Financing for Food
    Crisis Project Social Safety Net Reform Project (SSNRP). Managed by the
    Ministry of Social Affairs. Funded by the World Bank.

22. Palestinian National Authority (August 2010). Homestretch to Freedom: The
    Second Year of the 13th Government Program. Found October 7, 2012 at:
    http://www.mopad.pna.ps/en/attachments/article/6/Second_year_of_the_governm
    ent_program_EnglishFinal.pdf

23. World Bank (April 1, 2011). Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Grant in
    the Amount of USD10.0 million equivalent for the Cash Transfer Project. Report
    No. 59698-GZ

24. Palestinian National Authority (PNA) (April 2011). Palestinian National
    Development Plan (2011-2013). Establishing the State, Building Our Future.
    Found October 7, 2012 at: http://www.apis.ps/up/1332062906.pdf

25. PNA. Ministry of Social Affairs: Business Strategy 2011-2013. Ramallah, May
    2011.




                                        62
26. World Bank. (June 25 2012). West Bank and Gaza: Targeting Assessment of the
    Cash Transfer Program. Report No. ACS890.

27. World Bank (March 13, 2012). Grant Reporting and Monitoring (GRM) Report.
    SSNRP Food Price Crisis Response Additional Financing.

28. World Bank (2013). Inclusion and resilience: The way forward for the Social
    Safety Nets in the Middle East and North Africa. MENA Development Report.
    Report No. 72975.

29. Aide memoires

30. Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs)




                                      63
Annex 10. Overview of Reform Efforts and Achievements under the SSNRP

10.1   Overview – SSNRP emphasis on reforms

10.1.1. The SSNRP aimed to support and promote efforts to reform the social safety net
in WBG with one of the primary objectives of the SSNRP being to strengthen the
institutional capacity of MOSA needed to improve the transparency, efficiency and
effectiveness of the SHC program, its main social assistance program. Specifically, the
SSNRP aimed to ensure the development of: (1) a new targeting system; (2) a functioning
new MIS; and (3) a social safety net (SSN) policy and strategy adopted by MOSA. The
intended achievements were: (a) the establishment of an improved operating MIS and
staff properly trained in its use; (b) the completion of a new targeting instrument; (c)
completion of an SSN policy study; and (d) improved program efficiency. When the
project was restructured in 2007, the second part of the PDOs was revised to strengthen
the institutional capacity of MOSA to manage cash transfer programs.

10.1.2. The SSNRP aimed to support reforms of the EU-funded SHC Program which had
remained virtually unchanged for 25 years. This decision was informed by a 2002 World
Bank report, “Palestine: The current socio-economic crisis and the Ministry of Social
Affairs? (Report 25262-GZ), which concluded that the ongoing SHC Program was
“effectively managed? with “limited leakage?, though restrictive with regard to eligibility
criteria. The report recommended that the SHC Program receive full funding and that
MOSA strengthen its institutional capacity for policy making and M&E while also
upgrading its MIS. In addition to an envisaged 50 percent increase in the number of
beneficiaries (taking the total number of beneficiaries from its current 120,000 to
180,000), the SSNRP would introduce a CCT component and a new targeting mechanism.
This approach was further aligned with an analysis of the WBG context which had
concluded that among various instruments, cash transfers were having a larger impact on
welfare status than others, such as employment generation, job creation, etc.

10.1.3. The emphasis on reforms under the SSNRP was well-aligned with the PA’s short-
and medium-term priorities which were to: (1) provide emergency financial support to an
improved SHC program; (2) strengthen MOSA’s institutional capacity, particularly in the
areas of strategic planning and policy analysis; (3) assess both specific and overall
adequacy of social assistance programs with the aim of enhancing MOSA’s coordination
with other institutions and NGOs on social protection policy and program delivery and to
reduce the existing overlap of programs, especially non-cash; and (4) design instruments
to assist the newly poor.

10.1.4. In 2004, at SSNRP effectiveness, the SHC Program was providing assistance to a
large number of beneficiaries but the benefit levels were low (providing families with
US$10/month (US$0.33/day) which was significantly less than the US$1.77/day that
would have been needed to bridge the poverty gap). The SHC program was intended for
households which had no income and provided regular cash assistance as well as food
donations and health insurance. The SHC program had experienced an increase in
applicants and had a waiting list and at some points, funding difficulties. Though the



                                           64
SHC program was the largest social assistance program and the largest managed by
MOSA, social assistance was provided through large number of assistance efforts and
various actors, including (in addition to MOSA), UNRWA, NGOs, traditional community
arrangements (e.g., Zakat committees), private transfers and contributions from abroad.
These efforts, however, were not well-coordinated and there were limited data relating to
efforts and outcomes likely resulting in some degree of duplication and an inefficient use
of resources. At the same time, a large number of households in need were not receiving
assistance.

10.1.5. The key reforms that were achieved in the context of the SSNRP, and its three
additional financings, are described in detail below with particular emphasis on results by
project closing. For a number of reasons, as described elsewhere, most reform efforts
began to take hold following project restructuring in 2007 – when the project was
transformed into a “cash transfer program that will spearhead key reforms of the social
safety net? and more beneficiaries began receiving cash payments on a more regular basis.
However, it should be noted that although the CCT was removed at restructuring, it was
in this context that the development of a new targeting approach (the Proxy Means Test –
PMT - formula) was developed and first used for targeting cash assistance.

10.2   Targeting

10.2.1 A key reform supported by the SSNRP was the introduction of an improved
targeting system to be used in selecting new beneficiaries and in retesting the eligibility
of SHC program participants at the same time. Moving away from a largely categorical
approach that relied solely on the subjective opinion of social workers, eligibility for cash
transfers supported by the SSNRP would be assessed using a “standardized and
transparent? eligibility criteria based on a so-called PMT formula. In addition to
improving targeting accuracy (moving from a categorical approach to one based on a
formula derived from analysis of household data), this new instrument would increase
transparency and would free MOSA social workers to spend more time assisting
beneficiary households in need. Experience from other settings had shown that results
obtained through a PMT formula are nearly as accurate as those achieved in full means
testing. Despite these benefits, it was expected that this new approach might be politically
difficult to introduce – particularly since it would require deeming a portion of current
SHC program participants ineligible for the ‘new’ program.

10.2.2. The PMT formula includes a number of variables which reflect specific
household characteristics, which together (in the formula) can be used as a proxy for
measuring a household’s means (or welfare). Selection of variables and their weighting
is determined on the basis of data from the Palestinian Household Expenditures and
Consumption Survey (PECS) collected by the Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics
(PCBS). Each household receives a score on the PMT formula. A cut-off score is then
identified to determine a household’s eligibility for cash assistance. This cut-off point is
determined on the basis of poverty statistics provided by the PCBS (where the cut-off
point reflects the extreme poverty line, for example), as well as with consideration for the
available funding envelope for the program and the PA’s decision as to what level the



                                             65
program would aim to bridge the poverty gap. This information, entered into a poverty
targeting database (part of the MIS), can provide a poverty ranking of all households.
Various targeting databases (of the EU, the Bank and the UN) have been merged into one
poverty-targeting database.

10.2.3. Shortly after SSNRP effectiveness, a pilot program was undertaken which
supported both the upgrading of the MIS and testing of the PMT formula. The
introduction of this new formula and its use in targeting cash transfers was important in
fostering discussion and agreement related to: an appropriate cut-off point and benefit
levels, improvements to the MIS including the poverty-targeting database, and capacity-
building needs within the MOSA (including social workers at the field-level). This new
targeting approach was introduced in 2006, and fully implemented by 2007, and has been
the main mechanism by which a household’s eligibility is assessed. Assessments
including eligibility reviews have highlighted the effectiveness of the PMT in targeting.
In 2009, the PA decided that the SSNRP methodology (i.e., the use of the PMT formula
to determine eligibility) would be applied to all cash assistance programs, including the
newly established and unified program, the Palestinian National Social Safety Net
Program (PNSSP) (often referred to as the Palestinian National Cash Transfer Program
(PNCTP) or Cash Transfer Program (CTP)) that had just been approved by the PA.

Addressing ineligibility

10.2.4. This new targeting system has been useful in determining a household’s eligibility
for the program and identifying an appropriate benefit level. Further, household
eligibility is reviewed through a re-verification process as updates and modifications are
made to the PMT formula based on available data. Removing beneficiary households
which are no longer considered eligible for the program (as a result of the PMT
formula/score and periodic updates) has been politically problematic. Indeed, when the
merger first occurred creating the CTP and the PMT methodology was endorsed, it was
estimated that 30 percent of EU-supported households would no longer qualify for cash
assistance according to the PMT and, therefore, would need to be removed from the
program. Much discussion with the PA and other stakeholders has emphasized that the
effective and transparent use of this targeting mechanism requires a clear definition and
understanding of program objectives (both within the MOSA and in communication with
the public) and increased attention to providing other types of social assistance to those
who no longer quality for cash assistance from the CTP. It also requires significant
efforts to update the PMT formula on the basis of most recent PECS data and recertify
households’ eligibility for the program.

Keeping targeting up-to-date

10.2.5. A number of reviews to date have indicated that the targeting system is largely
accurate in identifying households who were eligible for cash assistance and that the
targeting mechanism was functioning effectively. Independent ex-post and eligibility




                                           66
reviews (the latter being a prerequisite to disbursement of both GFRP/FPCR TF
additional financings) 21 found that households included in the program were indeed
eligible. When the SHC Program and the SSNRP were merged in 2010 becoming the
CTP, it was necessary to calculate the poverty score of all households in the database
(receiving funding from SHC Program and SSNRP).                The PMT formula and
accompanying cut-off scores related to eligibility have been modified according to newly
available data from PECS in 2004; 2006; and 2007 collected by PCBS and on the basis of
simulations.

10.2.6. When the formula has been updated, households already included in the database
have been recertified while at the same time new applicants’ information was entered in
the database to determine their eligibility with the newly revised formula. Revisions to
the PMT formula have required significant effort on the part of MOSA in terms of
verifying beneficiary households throughout WBG on a frequent basis. With information
on the prevalence of poverty in WBG, it is possible to determine approximately the
number of extremely poor households which have not yet been identified and included in
the database. Though there was some delay in updating the PMT formula based on the
most recent PECS in Gaza (and recertifying households), once this was possible, this was
completed in a very short time period. In the spring of 2012, MOSA also launched a
campaign in West Bank to identify households for the CTP which also provided training
to social workers. The PMT formula and poverty line calculations (along with a policy
decision related to bridging the poverty gap) together can identify eligible households and
determine the amount of the cash transfer each eligible household should receive (setting
a minimum level and maximum ceiling).

Assessment of Targeting

10.2.7. Given strong interest expressed by PA, donors, and other development partners in
understanding the efficiency and accuracy of the PMT formula – as the poverty-targeting
database is used by many other organizations – the Bank funded a TA for a Targeting
Assessment of the Cash Transfer Program (P129124) which was completed in June 2012.
The study found that the large majority of MOSA applicants are extremely poor and that
the PMT formula is efficiently identifying extremely poor households. Overall, the PMT
Formula correctly identifies 70 percent of the cases and has exclusion and inclusion
errors lower than other programs that are widely considered successful (Bolsa Familia in
Brazil and Oportunidades in Mexico, for example). Local firms, Al Markhaz Consulting
for Development and Engineering and Management Consulting Center (EMCC),
produced reports on their findings in the West Bank and in Gaza, respectively. A final
report of the survey, its findings and recommendations agreed with partners was issued in
June 2012.



21
  Two additional financings (AFs) provided by the Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund (FPCR TF) in
the amount of US$5.0 million and US$3.4 million in 2009 and 2010, respectively, demonstrated that the
program could be effectively scaled-up in times of crisis, serve as a channel for various sources of funding
as it also demonstrated the PMT formula to be effective in targeting the extremely poor.


                                                    67
10.2.8. The report also indicated that, as with any model, there is room for improvement.
This study provides the foundation for a follow on TA currently being developed that will
aim to further analyze the household data and explore other dynamics of poverty (e.g.,
electricity tariff, correlation between a household’s food consumption score and poverty
level) which may be further considered. Overall, this new targeting mechanism (relying
on the PMT) has proven to be a transparent way to select poor households to date for
participation in the CTP, a program frequently referred to as state-of-the-art and one of
the most advanced in the MENA region.

10.3 Management Information System

10.3.1. An initial assessment of the MOSA MIS in designing the SSNRP concluded that
only a ‘modest upgrade’ in the system would be needed to account for the new CCT
activities. This was undertaken in the context of the pilot program which also tested the
new targeting approach. The MIS, once fully completed, would enable MOSA to obtain
and store real time information related to household characteristics (e.g., size, school
enrollment rates, access to basic services, etc.), determine eligibility of applicants and
distribute cash benefits in an effective and timely manner. Throughout the SSNRP
project life, the MIS has been substantially upgraded. Today, the MIS includes a poverty-
targeting database, an accounting system (generating payment lists and providing
accurate cash assistance amounts for beneficiaries through their bank accounts), and can
produce up to 50 different types of reports useful for M&E, planning and management
for MOSA staff and other partners. The upgraded MIS has been essential in organizing
and overseeing the application, enrollment, and verification process of households and
beneficiary households’ participation in the program. Currently, the poverty–targeting
database is used by a number of other donors and organizations for their own programs
which has reduced the risk of duplicate payments and promoted a more cohesive and
coordination approach to assistance in WBG.

10.3.2. The web-based system, housed in MOSA headquarters in Ramallah, is connected
through a network system to the district-level where information can be uploaded and
stored in the main system. Each of the 17 muderias (districts) in West Bank and Gaza can
access the MIS through web-based technology allowing social workers to enter data from
household applications at the district level directly into the system. To ensure effective
use and understanding of this system, at central and district levels, training has been
provided to social workers and MOSA staff, while a number of individuals with
information technology (IT) expertise have been hired to manage this advanced system.
To date, the poverty-targeting database has information on approximately 150,000
households throughout WBG with MOSA staff and a variety of other stakeholders having
been trained in database management and the use of the PMT formula for targeting.
Given in-house IT capacity within the MOSA which has been strengthened under the
SSNRP, all services and system development is undertaken within MOSA. This
technical expertise is useful in making timely adjustments to the MIS, for example, when
the PMT formula is updated or the system can benefit from further modifications.




                                           68
10.4 MOSA Institutional Capacity-building

10.4.1. Central to the SSNRP and to the achievements described above has been support
to MOSA institutional capacity-building to manage and implement cash transfer schemes
and to strengthen its policy-making approaches. In strengthening the MIS and
management capacity, for example, the SSNRP and EU both supported TA, including
hiring of IT experts to work on the system and to manage IT reform, staff training and
purchase of system components (IT hardware and equipment necessary to establish
network between headquarters and district offices). Moreover, various experts were
hired to support project management and implementation including statisticians, IT and
financial specialists. Institutional capacity building had already received support initially
through the ESSP II in 2003.

Training

10.4.2. Training has been provided to MOSA staff at the central and district levels in
skills development, project and financial management, and procurement and participation
in various collaborative learning exercises. One South-South learning activity funded by
the SSNRP supported MOSA central and district-level staff training to learn about
Kenya’s experience in implementing and managing a cash transfer scheme and to
consider lessons learned that might be useful for the Palestinian context. Training was
also provided to several hundred social workers in the new targeting approach and all
processes related to the application and enrollment process. In 2012, in an initiative to
promote inclusion of all poor households in the database in West Bank, the project
supported training of 250 social workers and 106 volunteers as well as training to data
entry employees working within the new IT unit on the recently upgraded IT system (part
of the MIS). Further, MOSA has been involved in all activities to assess the
effectiveness and impact of the CTP, including ex-post reviews, eligibility reviews and
the CTP Targeting Assessment exercise in 2012.

Policy Reform

10.4.3. The Bank has helped to guide policy reform, with EU providing significant TA in
this area to MOSA, and providing support to the development of social protection
strategies and action plans. To date, 23 national sectoral and non-sectoral strategies have
been developed. Some of these strategies focus on MOSA’s efforts in providing cash
transfers to households throughout WBG. Prior to the effectiveness of SSNRP, it was
largely agreed that the public had a low level of confidence in quality of services
provided by public sectors as well as the degree of transparency and accountability in
governance. The Bank supported the PA’s view that the SSNRP’s achievements (visible
in both cash transfers and strategy development, among other things) would be useful in
increasing the public’s confidence in the PA and its social protection programs.

10.4.4. A social protection strategy for the sector was one of the key outcomes stated in
the Palestinian Reform and Development Plan (2008-2010) (PRDP). It was envisaged



                                             69
that this strategy would move away from one of simply coping to that of a social
springboard. The first draft was completed in January 2010 and the final Social
Protection Sector Strategy (SPSS) dated April 2010 adopted by the 13th Government of
WBG is currently the guiding framework for the development of the sector as a “key
institution of a future independent Palestinian state.? (MOSA Business Strategy 2011-
2013). It is the first social protection strategy developed for WBG and it aims to support
the development of a “competent, effective and partnership-based social protection
system, capable of providing social protection in the form of assistance, care, prevention,
protection and empowerment to all Palestinians?. (Ibid). The strategic objectives of the
SPSS include: (1) reducing the burden and severity of poverty among Palestinians; (2)
sponsorship and strengthening of vulnerable and marginalized groups; (3) support,
sponsorship, protection, rehabilitation, strengthening of detainees, ex-detainees, and
families of martyrs and the wounded; (4) building and strengthening the social insurances
towards reaching a comprehensive social security system; and (5) developing the
legislative, institutional and partnership climate in order to achieve social protection. The
strategy is accompanied by a draft action plan which was developed collaboratively with
many stakeholders which provides clear plans for activities, including tasks, roles,
responsibilities, timeframe, mechanism and tools for M&E.

10.4.5. To guide the implementation of the SPSS, in collaboration with different sectors
of social policy and other agencies, in 2010 MOSA produced a Business Strategy for
2011 to 2013 which lays out the institution’s plans and specific objectives under each
SPSS objective. Some of the other strategies that have been developed related to the
social protection sector include a human resources strategy and related training plan, as
well as the preparation of a communications and an IT strategy. Most recently, efforts
have focused on strengthening approaches to quality management (for services),
reforming work processes and supporting development of a unit for complaints and
appeals. The next strategy is planned for 2014-2016. In the PA’s strategy for the social
protection sector, the cash assistance program represents an important piece of a larger
social assistance system which includes other programs adapted to the needs of
populations which do not quality for cash assistance from this program. Many policy
reforms in the Social Protection Sector have been accompanied by various modifications
to existing social protection legislation (e.g., issuance of disability cards, revision and
approval of the Disability rights law, a national strategy for child protection and care, and
efforts to improve provision of health insurance to persons in need).

10.4.6. The PA has underscored the importance placed on reform efforts; for example, a
government report entitled Homestretch to Freedom: The Second Year of the 13th
Government Program (August 2010), described achievements made in the first year of its
program, including reforms of the CTP, and highlighted remaining challenges for the
second year. The PA states that it “will continue to work in all sectors, to improve
institutional performance, public service delivery, quality of life, and economic
prosperity?. The report went on to underscore that the continued emphasis on the reforms
of the PA’s cash assistance and other social protection programs is of paramount
importance in reducing poverty. Similarly, the Palestinian National Development Plan
(2011 – 2013) indicates that during the “implementation of the three year social



                                             70
protection strategy, we will continue to improve, refine and implement the PNSSP to
ensure effective and well-targeted assistance. We will increase our focus on providing
more developmental assistance to empower the poor and other vulnerable members of
our society? (p. 35).

10.5 Merger of SSNRP and EU cash assistance programs into one national program

10.5.1. Many of the reforms supported by the SSNRP, including a strong MIS and an
improved targeting mechanism, played an important role in the PA’s decision to merge
the SHC and SSNRP programs into one unified cash transfer scheme – the CTP – as
described above. During the course of the SSNRP, the Bank played an important role in
garnering EU support for these technical efforts and in promoting buy-in of the PA and
the EU in establishing a unified cash transfer program. While EU support had not been
guaranteed until 2005 (following SSNRP effectiveness which was in 2004), along with
the UK Department for International Development (DFID) and USAID, it had expressed
the possibility of providing support to the Bank’s efforts to improve the existing cash
assistance scheme aware of needed improvements in the current scheme (e.g., targeting,
benefit levels, technical capacity-building, improvements to MIS, etc.).

10.5.2. The PA demonstrated its commitment to the establishment of a unified program.
In its 2009 Letter of Development Policy, the PA committed to harmonizing/merging the
EU and World Bank cash assistance programs into a nationally administered cash
assistance program and the PA’s 2010 Letter of Development Policy stresses the
institution-building aspects of a future Palestinian state emphasizing the need for a solid
and well-targeted safety net to protect the poorest and most vulnerable segments of the
population. The process of transforming SSNRP into a PA-administered cash transfer
program was also in line with the PRDP (2008-2011) orientations. The PRDP, in addition
to focusing on institutional strengthening, specifically raises the issue of having multiple
cash benefit schemes with different targeting methods and possible substantial leakage of
benefits to non-poor households. The EU in 2007/2008 had agreed also to provide long-
term TA to MOSA to assist in SSNRP scale up and begin a merger of various cash
transfer programs.

10.5.3. On February 23, 2009, the PA Council of Ministers approved the merger and
drafted a Cash Assistance Strategy, a sort of master plan, to guide the unified program
which addressed all of the program’s central elements. The program was officially
created (merged) on January 1, 2010 and provided its first joint cash transfer payment in
June 2010. Given the improved capacity and donor confidence in MOSA’s leadership,
the high level of transparency of efforts and an interest in using the poverty-targeting
database (as encouraged by the Bank and the PA), the EU along with the Bank and other
partners supported the merger of these two programs, with the EU continuing to provide
long-term TA on these efforts.




                                            71
MOSA ownership and management of the program

10.5.4. MOSA had been managing both programs and was gaining important visibility as
leader of the Social Protection Sector. MOSA, along with the EU, co-chairs a monthly
Social Protection Sector Working Group whose members include, among others:
Ministry of Planning and Administrative Development (MOPAD), United Nations
Population Fund (UNFPA), UNRWA, WFP, USAID and the World Bank and has begun
to put in place mechanisms to consolidate some of the various programs. The purpose of
the group is to “act as a coordination forum between the PA and donors? providing a
“platform for discussing policy priorities, progress in implementation of the programs of
the PRDP related to social protection?. Most recently, the working group set up a social
protection web portal for the purpose of compiling relevant documents for the social
protection sector. The web portal aims to be the library for literature available in
Palestine on subjects related to social protection.

Program Features

10.5.5. In this regard, the current cash assistance program can be considered ‘state-of-the-
art’ and WBG is recognized as having one of the most advanced cash assistance
programs in the MENA region. The key features of the new program include a single
targeting mechanism, a shared poverty-targeting database, uniform payment modalities
and amounts irrespective of funding sources and a strengthened MIS. When approving
the merger of the two programs, the PA made an official decision that all cash assistance
programs were required to adhere to the SSNRP methodology (e.g., the PMT formula to
determine eligibility). The MOSA also established a committee on the reform of the
SHC and SSNRP and merger in March 2009 to guide the entire process. This unified
program has played an important role in harmonizing efforts in this sector and among
various donors which has resulted in the establishment of a more efficient system. With
such attributes, the PA is better poised to leverage donor resources to support the
program in the future.

10.5.6. The unified targeting system and recent efforts by MOSA to encourage
households to apply for the program and support of social workers to increase their
efforts in application in-take and processing can provide a poverty-ranking of all
applicant households in the West Bank and Gaza. In the expansion of programs, and with
the merger of both main programs, MOSA has made significant efforts to update the
database on a timely basis, including entering new households’ information into the
system, determining their eligibility, while also verifying the eligibility of households
receiving assistance according to an updated PMT formula. These efforts promote
transparency, visibility and facilitate the scaling up of the program – important features in
attracting donor aid and in ensuring sustainability. That the program can be easily scaled
up has been confirmed through reviews of transfers provided under the Food Price Crisis
Response Trust Fund (FPCR TF) (Additional Financings) which aimed to reach
approximately 25,000 poor households. This is an important feature, in particular, in
reaching beneficiaries and other vulnerable populations in times of crisis.




                                             72
10.5.7. The CTP also possesses an improved payment modality. Prior to the merger
which created the CTP, MOSA was paying beneficiaries through post offices (checks
were transferred to the local post offices and beneficiaries would retrieve their payments
at these locations). Beginning in 2008 under the SSNRP, however, payments were made
through transfers from the Bank’s special account through the Bank of Palestine to
beneficiary households (through vouchers). This new approach was adopted by the CTP
and has been proven by ex-post reviews to be more effective than the previous payment
mechanism. At the present time, the system is able to provide transfers directly to
beneficiaries’ bank accounts.

10.5.8. Another key achievement has been the adoption of uniform payment amounts,
based on household features such as size and composition, regardless of funding source
and the availability of funds. Determining benefit levels has been a collaborative efforts
taking into consideration availability of resources, needs of beneficiary households and
expected number of poor and extremely poor households which have not yet been
included in the database. With information on the poverty distribution provided by PCBS,
it is possible to determine the number of people that should be eligible for the CTP and to
know what portion of these households is in West Bank and in Gaza. Such decisions
have been assisted by simulations related to the liability of proposed new benefit schemes
with previously agreed benefit levels and discussions with the MOF, MOSA, the Bank
and the EU.

Sustainability

10.5.9. With the introduction of this new targeting process and resource-intensive efforts
to include all poor households in the poverty-targeting database in order to ensure that the
program did not exclude extremely poor households, MOSA has been encouraged to
consider both the poverty level in West Bank and Gaza as well as the available funding
envelope in administering the program so that: 1) all extremely poor households once
identified can be included in the program and not excluded in order to continue to benefit
less poor households; and so that 2) households receiving cash transfers could rely on
continued payments over a longer period of time as this program aimed to assist the
chronic or structurally poor. In dialogue with the PA, the Bank has encouraged the
program to provide lower benefit levels to beneficiaries, strengthen its outreach efforts
(including the poorest first), and to strengthen other programs for those who no longer
qualify for cash assistance. This suggested approach is consistent with the program’s
design and larger objective to assist the chronic or structurally poor. In terms of
including households identified as ‘vulnerable’ (but not eligible for the program
according to the PMT), the Bank has suggested that only a portion of these households
which are also poor should be included in the program.

10.5.10. Some concern related to the sustainability of the program persists given its high
reliance on donor funding and the difficulty in removing ineligible households from the
program. While the PA does provide an important amount of funding to the cash
assistance program, the EU currently contributes three times that amount. And while the
Bank has secured PA’s commitment to increase its financial support of the program on an



                                            73
incremental basis in the coming years, given the current fiscal crisis and issues described
above, some concern remains as to whether or not this will be feasible which may in turn
jeopardize the program’s overall sustainability.




                                            74
                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 33512R1
                                                                                                                                                                To                         35°30'E
                                                                                                              35°00'E                                         Nazareth

               WEST BANK                                                                                                           To Haifa

               AND GAZA
                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                        32°30'N                                                                                                                                   32°30'N
                 RIVERS                                                                                                                       Yamoun
                                                                                                                                                                    Jenin
                 MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                    Ya'bad
                                                                                                                                 Kaffeen
                 RAILROAD                                                                                                                                      Qabatia

                 ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINES, 1949                                                                                                     JENIN
                 NO-MAN’S LAND AREAS,
                 ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINE, 1949                                                  To Netanya               TULKARM
                                                                                                                                      Anapta                                     Tubas
                                                                                                                        Tulkarm                                                          TUBAS
                 JERUSALEM CITY LIMIT, UNILATERALLY                                                                                                                               Tammun
                 EXPANDED BY ISRAEL JUNE 1967;
                 THEN ANNEXED JULY 30, 1980                                                                                                             Mt. 'Eval
                                                                                                                                                        (940 m)
                 GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                          Nablus
                                                                                                   Qalqilyah
                 ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARY                                                                               QALQILYAH                              NABLUS
                                                                                           To                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                        Tel Aviv                                                                                                                    Um Qais
                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                 SALFIT
                                              34°30'E                                                                                     Salfit   West




                                                                                                                                                                                                    r
  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.




                                                                                                                                                                                               Jordan Rive
  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                       To
  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                      Ramla
                                                                                                                                                                                                             JORDAN
  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
32°00'N
                                                                                       To
                                                                                    Tel Aviv
                                                                                                                                                   Bank                                                        To 32°00'N
                                                                                                                                                                 Tall Asur                                    Amman
                                                                                                                                                                 (1,022 m)
                                                                                                                                       RAMALLAH                                          JERICHO

                                                                                                                                                     Ramallah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Amman
                                                                                                                                                                                           Jericho
           Mediterranean
                                                                                                                                                        JERUSALEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                           Sea                                                                                                                                                                                    Amman
                                                                                                                                                        JERUSALEM


                                                                                                       To                                           Bethlehem
                                                                                                     Ashdod
                                                                          ISRAEL
                                                                                                                                                      BETHLEHEM
                                                                To
                                                             Tel Aviv
                                                                                                  To
                                                                                               Ashqelon                                                                                   Dead
                              JABALYA
                                    Beit Lahia                                                                                        (1,020 m)                                            Sea
                                                                                                                                     Hebron
                           Gaza City
                                                 Jabalya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  31°30'N
                      GAZA CITY                                                                                                   HEBRON
   Gaza Nusejrat
                                                           To                                                                       Yattah
DEIR EL BALAH                     El Bureij             Beersheba
           Deir el Balah                                                                                          Zohar

      KHAN
      YUNIS
                                                                                                                                                                          To
                      Khan                                                                                                                                               Zofar
                      Yunis                                                          To
                                                                                  Beersheba
              Rafah
                           RAFAH                                                                                                                                                                JORDAN
                Abu 'Awdah
   To           (105 m)
El Arish
                  To                          WEST BANK
                  Elat                        AND GAZA

 ARAB                                                                                                     0        5        10     15 Kilometers

REP. OF
EGYPT                                                                                                     0             5            10            15 Miles

31°00'N                                                                                                                                                                                                           31°00'N

                                              34°30'E                                                           35°00'E                                                                     35°30'E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JUNE 2007
