                                                             97324 September 17, 2010
West Bank and Gaza: Social Safety Net Reform Project




 AT THE FOREFRONT OF CHANGE

 Help reaches the poorest families in targeted project




Overview
The Social Safety Net Reform Project has supported the Palestinian Authority in developing
and managing one of the most advanced cash assistance programs in the region. It is also
designed to be expanded during crises if needed. The project, after merging with another
initiative backed by the European Union, has provided cash transfers to more than 63,000 poor
families using an effective poverty-targeting mechanism and database.


Challenge                                               MULTIMEDIA
Improved social assistance mechanisms were
needed to reduce malnutrition, and to protect the
health and well-being of the Palestinian
population, which was confronted by high levels
of poverty, unemployment, and population
growth in West Bank and Gaza. Yet despite high
levels of donor funding, social assistance
programs in the area lacked coordination and an
effective poverty-targeting mechanism, which
together resulted in an inefficient use of
resources. There was no national strategy to
guide social protection initiatives and the Ministry
of Social Affairs had only limited institutional
capacity, insufficient for the task of reforming the social
safety net and managing an advanced and large-scale cash
                                                                     More Results
assistance program. As a result of the recent food and oil
crisis, conditions continued to deteriorate further threatening

                                                                     25,000
the nutrition, health and well-being of the Palestinian
population, particularly those living in Gaza.

                                                                     of the poorest households will
Approach                                                             have received a transfer of
                                                                     US$135 by end of 2010 to cope
                                                                     with the global food and oil
The Social Safety Net Reform Project focused                         crisis
simultaneously on capacity-building within the Ministry of
Social Affairs to undertake necessary reforms and on
providing cash assistance to the poorest households in West
Bank and Gaza. The reform effort supported by the project,           MORE INFORMATION
and led by the Ministry, established an effective poverty-            West Bank and Gaza and the
targeting database, utilized the banking system to provide            World Bank
and to monitor cash transfers. It also created a national cash        Assistance Strategy (pdf)
transfer program, managed by the Palestinian Authority,
through the merger of the Social Safety Net Reform Project            Active projects
with the European Union-backed Special Hardship Cases                 Lending summary
Program. The Social Safety Net Reform Program has
                                                                      Economic and Sector Work
provided the Palestinian Authority with the opportunity to
demonstrate its capacity in leading the difficult reform               All publications
process and in effectively managing a large-scale and state-           Doing Business
of-the-art cash assistance program. Together, these
                                                                       West Bank and Gaza Data
achievements have highlighted the Palestinian Authority’s
commitment to helping its people and have improved its                 Millennium Development Goals 
overall credibility with donors.

                                                                      RELATED CONTENT
Results achieved with support from the
                                                                       Towards a Palestinian State:
International Development Association (IDA)                            Reforms for Fiscal Strengthening
With continued collaboration and commitment of the
                                                                       Report for the Pledging
Palestinian Authority and donors, the Social Safety Net                Conference: Investing in
Reform Project has supported the following achievements.               Palestinian Economic Reform
                                                                       and Development (pdf)
      Approximately 5,000 of the poorest households have
      received monthly transfers ranging from US$85 to
      US$130 in 2009;
                                                                   
      More than 25,000 of the poorest households received
      a transfer of US$200 (2009) and will have received a
      transfer of US$135 by end of 2010 to cope with the global food and oil crisis;

      The accuracy and reliability of the program’s main poverty-targeting mechanism was
      confirmed in two eligibility reviews, home visits, and a desk verification process carried
      out by an independent consulting firm (2008 and 2009);

      An effective and reliable social safety net was established (2008) that can be expanded
      in crisis situations;

      The NPCTP provided cash transfers to more than 63,000 of the poorest households
      (2010).

Bank financing and other support
The International Association of Development (IDA) supported the original and ongoing Social
Safety Net Reform Project through a grant of US$10 million. In 2008, the Trust Fund for Gaza
and West Bank provided the project with an additional grant of US$10 million to support the
Palestinian Authority’s poverty alleviation efforts, outlined in the Palestinian Reform and
Development Program. This was followed by two more grants from the Global Food Crisis
Response Trust Fund for US$5.0 million and US$3.4 million in 2009 and 2010, respectively.
 
Partners
The Bank has drawn upon it strong partnership with the European Union, which is providing
parallel financing, and with the WFP, FAO, UNDP, UNICEF, and UNRWA in terms of
information-sharing and assistance coordination. Cooperation between the World Bank and the
European Union led the merger of two separate projects to create the Palestinian Cash
Transfer Program, which is consistent with the 2005 Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness and
with the Palestinian Authority’s 2010 Cash Transfer Strategy. Collaboration and coordination
has been further strengthened by use of a common poverty-targeting database among donors,
meetings with stakeholders and efforts of the social protection working group.
 
Moving Forward
The Bank aims to collaboratively provide support to reforms to the current cash transfer
program and to further strengthen the Ministry of Social Affair’s capacity to provide cash
transfers to the poor through a proposed two-year project. The recertification process of
beneficiary households for cash transfer assistance will be completed in the West Bank and in
Gaza. The Ministry will continue to identify and provide other types of assistance to poor
households no longer qualifying for cash transfers. It is hoped that the Ministry of Social Affairs
will reduce high benefit levels to enable the cash transfer program to reach a large number of
poor families and to secure the program’s long-term sustainability.
 

Voices


          I’m a widow and have five kids to support, ranging between
        the ages of 5-and-14. My family has no source of income. We
        are fully reliant on SSNRP support that helps provide us with
        the minimal support to meet our daily living expenses, namely
        food. I am thankful that there is such a program that looks
        after hardship cases like mine. I sincerely hope that it continues
        to look after my family under such harsh conditions.
                     Shreen Abu Hajaj, 37 years old and a widow, lives in
                                       Qarara, Khan Younis, Gaza Strip.

     


              I’m lonely and live in one room which includes my kitchen
            and bathroom. Additionally, I have a long-term illness and
            don’t have any source of income. Prior to the SSNRP support, I
            used to get intermittent in-kind support from neighbors who
            used to give me something to eat and that was hardly enough
            to cover one meal per a day. Neither my age nor my health
            status enables me to look for a job and even if I were able to
            work, the opportunity is not there. I started to receive cash
            benefits about two years ago. Without this support I could not
            have managed to survive. It enables me to buy food and
            medicine. It gives me a sense of safety and protection – I no
            longer worry about being isolated and ignored.
                  Salma Zoukmat, 73 years old and a widow, lives in Khan
                                                     Younis, Gaza Strip.

         


                I used to work as a street peddler. I’ve been unemployed
             since 2004 because of my disability, and my family has no
             source of income. Such absolute poverty and misery has
             negatively affected my kids’ achievements at school. As a result
             of this, I became psychologically ill, since I felt helpless and
             hopeless in facing so many life challenges. I’m currently a
             beneficiary of the Bank’s cash transfer project. The cash benefit
             I receive, while quite small, has significantly contributed to
             alleviating my family’s suffering by providing us with a lifeline
             of support. This support and continuation has become
             exceedingly vital, especially for the poor in Gaza.
                               Naser Abu Assi, 50 years old, lives in Zaitoun
    neighborhood, an overcrowded area in Gaza city. He lives
     with nine other family members in a very small house of
         just 50 square meters, and has no access to water or
                                                   sanitation.


 
