Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CP. /42e_-XŽ
Report No. P-4119-ZA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
TNTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 62.2 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL REORIENTATION PROJECT
AUGUST 20, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                              Zambian Kwacha (K)
US$ 1.00                                      K   2.4
K  1.00                                       US$ 0.4167
The Zambian Kwacha is officially valued in terms of a basket of currencies,
for which the US dollar is the intervention currency. Since July 1983, the
Government has followed a flexible exchange rate policy, making periodic
adjustments in the official value of the Kwacha. The rates expressed above
are as of May 31, 1985.  The following are average annual exchange rates
for recent years.
1980       US$ 1.00         =         K 0.7885
1981       US$ 1.00         =         K 0.8684
1982       US$ 1.00         =         K 0.9282
1983       USS 1.00         =         K 1.2506
1984       US$ 1.00         =         K 1.7943
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Metric Ton (Tonne)        =         1000 Kg. or 2,205 lbs.
1 Hectare (ha.)             =         2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
GDP = Gross Domestic Product
INDECO = INDECO Limited
ZCCM = Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines, Limited
ZIMCO = Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation, Ltd.
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 - December 31
ZIMCO/INDECO: April 1 - March 31



fOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL REOT           PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Zambia
Beneficiaries:      Industrial sector enterprises.
Amount:             IDA SDR 20.1 million (US$10 million equivalent)
African Special Facility SDR 42.1 million (US$42
million equivalent).
Terms:              Standard for IDA and the-African Facility.
Project             The objective of this Project is to raise capacity
Descriptiont        utilization and production levels of efficient
industrial enterprises in Zambia in order to increase
the supply of mnufactured goods for both the domestic
and export markets. It would support policy and
institutional reforms designed to increase the
efficiency and productivity of industrial firms and to
reorient the industrial sector towards greater use of
domestic inputs and towards export markets. The
Project would finance: a) imports of spare parts, raw
materials, intermediate goods and other inputs, and (b)
technical assistance, equipment and training to help
improve INDECO's capacity to evaluate investment
projects and improve the operation of existing public
enterprises, to enhance the Bank of Zamb±a's capacity
to forecast and budget foreign exchange, to establish a
tariff commission in the Ministry of Finance, to
prepare a program to simplify the duty drawback system,
to identify areas for expansion of the sales tax base
and to set up an export promotion board in the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry.
Terms to            For the importc 'nuponent, the credit proceeds would be
Beneficiaries:      sold at an auctiou-det*rmined exchange rate.  Funds
allocated for technical assistance would be made
available on a grant bqsis to INDECO and the Bank of
Zambia.
This docu men ha a berwed trociptiuo amd mo  be euod by ocpe  ony in t perior  Of
drw officia dohm Its crnmnts may ot oderwi be claasd wihout Wodd Bautboza



- ii -
Benefits:            By raising capacity utilization and production levels
of efficient and intcrnationally competitive industrial
enterprises, the Project would help reverse the
downward trend in GDP, provide increased income
opportunities for the Zambian people, increase the
supply of domestically-produced industrial inputs, and
provide wage goods needed in rural areas to enhance the
effectiveness of agricultural sector incentives. By
increasing the supply of raw materials, it would help
lower production costs of industrial firms. The policy
and institutional reforms would encourage development
of domestic resource-based industries and lower the
import and capital intensity of Zambian enterprises,
thereby initiating the process of industrial
reorientation. This would lead to an improved
allocation of resources in the industrial sector and to
greater emphasis on exporting which is required in the
longer term to substitute for copper exports.
Risks:              The main risk facing the project is the delay, or even
reversal, in the implementation of the policy and
industrial reforms supported by the Project, as a
result of possible internal resistance to the changes.
This risk is limited by: (i) the fact that the
Government has already shown its commitment by
implementing major components of the policy package
during the last two years; (ii) the growing national
consensus in Zambia that the prolonged nature and
severity of the current crisis requires major change;
and (iii) the expected benefits, in terms of increased
output and exports, of the recent and forthcoming
policy changes, together with those derived from the
additional foreign exchange made available by the
Credit. Furthermore, the imports component of the
Credit would be disbursed in two tranches with the
release of each tranche linked to satisfactory progress
in the implementation of the policy and institutional
improvements.
Estimated
Disbursement:                          US$Nillion
IDA FY                    FY86    FY87   FY88   FY89
Annual                     60.6     0.6    0.6    0.2
Cumulative                 60.6    61.2   61.8   62.0
Appraisal Report:   This is a combined President's and Appraisal Report.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA FOR AN
INTuSTRIAL REORIENTAION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Zambia of SDR 62.2 million (US$62 million
equivalent) on standard terms to help finance an Industrial Reorientation
Project. Of the total credit amount, SDR 20.1 million would be financed by
IDA and SDR 42.1 million by the African Facility. Special Joint Financing
of 10 million pounds sterling (about US$13 million equivalent) would be
provided by the United Kingdom.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum on Zambia (Report No. 5000-ZA) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on April 24, 1984. This part is
based on that report's findings and on subsequent information received from
the Zambian authorities. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Zambia's economy is heavily dependent on external trade and on
government activity.  Imports and exports range between 30 and 40 percent
of GDP. Government expenditures amount to about 35 percent of GDP, and the
Government owns a majority share of mining and most manufacturing
enterprises. Copper mining provides over 90 percent of foreign exchange
earnings and 15 percent of gross value added. Much economic activity is
dependent on expatriate technical, managerial, and administrative skills.
Current Economic Situation
4.        Zambia is currently in an acute stage of economic and financial
crisis. Production has declined steadily for three consecutive years in
most sectors due to reductions in import volumes. External trade has moved
to a cash basis, because of the refusal of banks to open new letters of
credit without reducing existing ones. Due in part to continued declines
in the copper price, scheduled external debt service obligations amount to
over 70 percent of export earnings, and debt rescheduling will be required



- 2 -
for the third year in a row. Disbursements of external loans have fallen
sharply due to reductions in capital expenditure by both the Government and
many public enterprises. As a result, a multi-faceted foreign exchange
constraint now grips the country and threatens to override the positive
effects of the Government's economic recovery program initiated in 1983.
To avoid this, a major coordinated effort of debt restructuring, renewed
financial flows and further policy measures are required to restore
production and thus enable the Government's program to succeed.
5.        Zambia's economic and financial problems were initiated by a
sharp decline in the copper price in 1975. Zambia's terms of trade have
deteriorated steadily since then, and by 1984, were 70 percent below the
average for the early 1970s. In 1982, and again in 1984, copper prices
reached their lowest level in real terms during the post-World War II era.
Real GDP has been in a general downward trend since 1975, declining on an
average by about 1.5 percent per year. With population growing by 3.1
percent per annum, real GDP per capita is 25 percent lower than in 1974.
GNP per capita was estimated at US$580 in 1983, using the World Bank Atlas
methodology, but is now much lower as a result of major devaluations of the
Kwacha in 1983, 1984 and 1985.
6.        The balance of payments has been in chronic disequilibrium since
1975, with current account deficits climbing to an average of 19 percent of
GDP in 1980-82. Nevertheless, the volume of imports declined steadily and
is now 50 percent below its level in 1980 and 75 percent below its level in
1974. This has resulted in an economy-wide problem of severe
underutilization of capacity and, especially in the mining sector, a large
backlog of maintenance and rehabilitation expenditure that has contributed
directly to a declining trend in copper production and exports. In 1984,
copper exports fell to their lowest level (525,000 tonnes) since Zambia's
independence. The current level of imports is now inadequate to sustain
copper production and to provide a critical minimum for the rest of the
economy to function efficiently. The large current account deficits have
also led directly to Zambia's high level of external indebtedness. At the
end of 1984, Zambia's total external liabilities stood at US$4.4 billion,
including drawings from the DEF (US$740 million) and US$500 million in
overdue commercial payments. By comparison, exports of goods and services
amounted to somewhat over US$900 million.
7.        The decline in copper prices also severely affected Zambia's
fiscal and monetary positions. In the past, mineral taxes provided a large
share of government revenue, but they have been negligible since 1976. A
new mineral export tax was introduced in 1983, however, which now
contributes about 10 percent of Government's revenue. Deficit financing
absorbed a large share of net domestic credit and contributed to a sharp
rise in consumer prices, averaging 20 percent per annum during 1976-78 and
12 percent per annum in 1979-82. Price increases have accelerated in 1983
and 1984 to about 20 percent per annum, reflecting the decontrol of prices
in December 1982 and the devaluations of the Kwacha during the past two
years.



- 3 -
8.        There is no doubt that external factors have been an important
cause of Zambia's present economic difficulties. Apart from low copper
prices, other factors over which the Government has little or no control
include transport difficulties in neighboring countries on which Zambia is
dependent for the movement of foreign trade, and severe droughts which for
three consecutive years have necessitated substantial food imports. In
addition, copper mining in Zambia is past its peak, and for technical
reasons, such as sinking deeper shafts and tapping less rich ore bodies,
production costs are rising as ore reserves are depleted.
9.        Nevertheless, inappropriate policies and shortcomings in economic
management have exacerbated the economic difficulties. The main
deficiencies in economic policies were that: (i) pricing and subsidy
policies favored the urban consumer at the expense of the agricultural
producer, depressing the latter's income and incentive to produce for the
market; also, controlled industrial prices led to low profitability in the
manufacturing sector and a decrease in resources available for
reinvestment; (ii) tax incentives and low interest rates led to a pattern
of capital-intensive investment; (iii) exchange rate and tariff policies
encouraged the use of artificially cheap imported raw materials and other
inputs and discouraged the use of local materials and the development of
non-mineral exports.  As a result, a highly capital and import-intensive
productive structure was created that proved to be very vulnerable to
prolonged declines in the availability of foreign exchange.
Strategy for Economic Restructuring
10.       Economically exploitable ore reserves are only sufficient to
maintain present levels of copper production for another 15 years or so,
after which production can be expected to decline sharply. In the long
run, therefore, the copper industry cannot be counted on to provide the
domestic and external resources required for development. In the absence
of policies and programs to develop new sources of income, employment and
foreign exchange, Zambia may expect a drastic fall in living standards and
social well-being by the turn of the century. However, Zambia has the
potential to develop alternative sources of income, employment, and
exports. The greatest potential is in agriculture, where there are
opportunities for import substitution (cotton, oilseeds, livestock, grains,
forestry products, and fish) and for exports (beef, cotton, coffee,
tobacco, groundnuts, and sugar). Once a good start is made with
agricultural development, poasibilities will be created for agro-based
industries.
11.       For any long-term growth strategy to succeed, however, it is of
the utmost importance that financial balance be restored in the economy.
As the main provider of foreign exchange, the copper industry has a major
role to play. Without a rehabilitated copper industry, the Government's
diversification effort would fail for lack of financial resources. For
this reason, in 1984, the Bank approved an Export Rehabilitation and
Diversification Project which aims to increase the efficiency of the mining



- 4 -
industry and make it competitive again by international standards. This
project was accompanied by an agreement on changes that would be needed in
macro-economic and sector policies in order to restructure and diversify
the rest of the economy and create the conditions for developing new
sources of income, employment and exports.
12.       The Government, with Bank and Fund assistance, has developed a
wide-ranging package of policies and measures to bring about better
economic management and a policy environment conducive to healthy economic
growth and diversification. The Government's economic restructuring
policies may be suimmarized as follows:
- Providing a system of incentives to producers and exporters of
agricultural and industrial products in which prices are
responsive to market forces;
- Ensuring the competitiveness of exports through an active
exchange rate policy;
- Using tariffs and interest rate policies to reverse past
trends of import dependence and capital intensity;
- Liberalizing administrative restrictions on foreign trade and
the licensing of production, in order to improve the
allocation of resources and to encourage investment in
productive activities;
- Reducing the Government's deficit and recourse to domestic
bank borrowing by reducing expenditure on personnel costs,
subsidies and other non-development related activities;
- Improving planning and budgetary proced-ares to shift resources
to productive uses and economic investments;
- Allowing greater competition in the procurement and selling of
food crops.  T-e National Agricultural Marketing Board
(NAMBOARD), the Government's agricultural marketing agency,
will move towards the role of buyer and seller of last resort,
using a system of floor and ceiling prices for agricultural
produce and inputs, respectively;
- Strengthening the technical and managerial capacity of Zambia
Industrial and Mining Corporation (ZIMCO), which is the
holding company of most state-controlled enterprises;
- Restructuring the energy sector to bring about lesser
dependence on imported oil.
13.       In the past two years, the Government has made significant
progress in translating the above policies into tangible action. Stand-by



arrangements were agreed with the IMF in 1983 and 1984. Under these
programs, the Kwacha was linked to a basket of currencies and was
depreciated in a gradual manner such that it is now 60 percent lower (in
foreign exchange terms) than at the end of 1982. Because the Government
has been successful in holding wage increases to considerably less than
rises in the cost of living, it has maintained the benefits of devaluation
in real terms, which has improved the competitiveness of exports. Debt
rescheduling with members of the Paris Club, commercial banks and non-OECD
governments was also obtained. Further measures taken under the IMF
program included increases in interest rates and tough budgetary measures
(including reductions in subsidies and a cap on new government employment)
aimed at reducing the Government's domestic borrowing. Under the programs,
the current account deficit was reduced to 8.5 percent of GDP in each year
and domestic bank borrowing by the Government to 3-4 percent of GDP in each
year.
14.       In terms of improving conditions for longer-term growth, the most
significant of the above financial measures was no doubt the exchange rate
adjustments. But other measures with significant long-term impact have
been introduced as well. In December 1982, in order to allow market forces
to play a more important role in the economy, the Government abolished the
control of all wholesale and retail prices except for three essential
commodities: wheat flour, maize flour and candles. Since then, prices for
a wide range of commodities have increased, thereby helping to restrain
domestic demand, while increasing the profitability of firms. Most
recently, the price of wheat flour and bread was also decontrolled. Over
the last three years, producer prices for most agricultural crops have been
increased considerably in real terms. Together with concessionary tax
rates for agricultural income and freer marketing arrangements for the
livestock sector, these measures have already led to increases in the area
under cultivation and in the marketed production of various crops and
livestock. The Government has also improved the incentives affecting
foreign trade by introducing a foreign exchange retention scheme and
concessional tax rates for non-traditional exports, and by imposing a
minimum tariff on many non-dutiable imports which should reduce the high
rates of effective protection afforded to import-intensive industries.
15.       As part of its economic recovery plans, the Government has
reactivated its interaction with the Consultative Group for Zambia. In May
1984 the Government presented a three-year expenditure program along with a
set of policy measures aimed to restructure the economy. The Consultative
Group strongly endorsed tL. Government's new policy initiatives, as well as
its expenditure program which emphasized rehabilitation of existing
infrastructure, increased capacity utilization and selected investments to
diversify the economy, especially in agriculture. The Group indicated that
its members are prepared to increase their assistance to Zambia, although
these indications have yet to materialize in new loan commitments. In
addition, various members indicated that in view of Zambia's serious
financial position, they are converting their assistance programs to a
grant basis and are prepared to make assistance available in the form of



- 6 -
qu5ckly disbursing loans and grants. The Consultative Group met again in
June 1985 to discuss the continued deterioration in Zambia's financial
situation. It reaffirmed its support for Zambia's restructuring efforts
and, in view of the current financial crisis, indicated that it would
increase the amount of assistance on quickly disbursing terms.
16.       The Government's efforts over the past two years represent a
major reformulation of economic policies and incentives. This progress is
currently in danger of being set back, however, due to insufficient foreign
exchange to maintain production (and exports) and to honor external debt
obligations. On one hand, the Government wishes to improve the supply of
essential consumer goods and thus show some benefits from the considerable
sacrifices its policies have required of the population, in particular, a
rapid increase in the consumer price of maize. On the other hand, the
Government must allocate considerable foreign exchange to service debt that
cannot be rescheduled.
17.       In facing this dilemma, the Government has opted for the bold
step of adopting a foreign exchange auction system in recognition of the
need for greater efficiency in the allocation of these resources. The
adoption of an auction system should also help mobilize additional foreign
exchange for the official market from sources both within and outside
Zambia, namely from unrecorded exports and from official development
agencies that would be willing to support such a significant policy change
with quickly disbursing assistance. While this strategy is commendable,
it risks uprooting, however, a hard-won political consensus that the
economic reform program must continue. Against the hope that additional
foreign exchange resources will materialize, the Government's decision to
adopt an auction system is being taken with the clear expectation that
higher prices will inevitably follow further depreciation of the Kwacha.
It is therefore essential that additional foreign exchange resources be
made available for the auction to work in order to increase production,
expand the supply of basic consumer goods and minimize upward pressure on
prices. Along with the auction, the Zovernment intends to introduce a wide
range of supporting measures, including decontrol of interest rates,
conversion of the import licensing system to one of import registration,
reductions in high import tariff rates, and further measures to reduce
government expenditure and borrowing from the banking system.
Creditworthiness
18.       Scheduled service on public and publicly guaranteed (PPG)
external debt will remain at over US$400 million per annum for the next
three years, or about 40 percent of export earnings at today's copper
prices. Of this amount, about US$65 million per annum is due to the World
Bank Group, including the IFC. (The Bank Group currently holds US$430
million, or 15 percent of Zambia's US$2.8 billion PPG debt disbursed and
outstanding). In addition, about US$200 million per annum in payments is
due to the IMF and another US$50-70 million per annum is due on Zambia's
pipeline of commercial payment arrears and short-term borrowings. In



total, then, scheduled debt service will amount to over US$700 million per
annum for the next three years, and it will thus be necessary for the
Government to continue its financial stabilization policies in cooperation
with the DMF and to seek debt relief through further rescheduling.  Even
with maximum debt relief, however, Zambia will continue to owe over US$400
million per annum in debt service that cannot be rescheduled. The
Government should, therefore, avoid as much as possible borrowing on
commercial terms, and additional borrowing should carry sufficiently long
grace periods and maturities.
19.       In the longer term, the restoration of Zambia's creditworthiness
depends on the vigor with which the Government continues to pursue its
economic restructuring policies. The Government is well underway in
adjusting its economic policies and is fully committed to take further
steps towards economic reform and the restructuring of Zambia's productive
industries. Assuming successful economic policies, careful financial
management and adequate external assistance, Zambia could achieve a
reasonable measure of export growth and diversification in ten to twelve
years and reduce its overall debt service ratio to 30 percent of exports.
PART II - THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR 1/
A. Sector Characteristics and Recent Performance
Size and Growth of Manufacturing_
20.       Zambia's manufacturing sector contributed about US$600 million
C18 percent) to GDP in 1983, and as such it is relatively large compared to
other sub-Saharan African countries. The share of manufacturing in GDP is
second only to Zimbabwe, and only Zimbabwe and Ivory Coast in sub-Saharan
Africa have higher levels of manufacturing GDP per capita.
21.       Manufacturing was the fastest growing sector of the economy in
the Lirst decade after independence. From 1965 to 1974, manufacturing
value added grew at 10 percent per annum in real terms while total GDP was
groding at about 3.3 percent per annum. The rapid growth of manufacturing
during the 1960s and early 1970s was due to: (i) growing demand for
consumer goods because of growing incomes; (ii) increasing demand for
relatively simvle equipment by the mining sector, mostly metal products
such as boilers, metal structures and other; and (iii) Government's
policy of accelerated industrialization through import substitution and
I/ Zambia's industrial performance, prospects and main policy issues are
analyzed in more detail in the report 'Zambia - Industrial Policy and
Performance, Report No. 4436-ZA, August 6, 1984.  This section
reflects the findings of that report.



- 8 -
direct Government investment in manufacturing. The sector's growth
continued at high rates until 1974 when, in response to the sharp fall in
capper earnings and the resulting economic recession, output began to fall
faster than GDP. Manufacturing production declined by 15 percent in real
terms between 1975 and 1980: it recovered somewhat in 1981, but declined
again thereafter. In 1983, the production of manufactured goods was four
percent below the 1980 level, and available evidence suggests that the
decline continued during 1984. Value added in manufacturing is now only
about three-quarters the level of 1974.
Structure of Production
22.       The structure of manufacturing output was already well
diversified in the mid 1970s. In 1975, food, beverages, tobacco, textiles,
clothing and leather accounted for less than 40 percent of manufacturing
value added whereas intermediate products and equipment (chemicals, metal
products, machinery, etc.) accounted for 49 percent of the total. Since
the mid-1970s, the structure of the sector has changed little (in terms of
installed capacity), but output has dropped substantially in most
mining-related sectors while some consumer goods have experienced small
increases.
Investment and Capacity Utilization
23.       Investment in manufacturing rose rapidly in the late 1960s and
early 1970s, quadrupling in real terms over 1965-72. More than 45 percent
of the total manufacturing investment during 1965-75 was in chemicals and
non- metallic mineral products. It was concentrated heavily in a few
large publically owned projects, such as the fertilizer plant, oil
refinery, brick factory, and cement plant expansion. One consequence of
the substantial investment in larger, capital-intensive industries was a
nearly doubling in the incremental capital/output ratio (ICOR) between
1966-67 and 1971-72. The high and growing capital intensity in
manufacturing was also due to government policies (overvalued exchange
rate, duty-free impcrts of capital goods and negative real interest rates)
that encouraged the use of capital-intensive processes and the
establishment of over-dimensioned plants.
24.       Annual investment in manufacturing fell by half in real terms
between 1975 and 1980, but installed capacity and the capital/output ratio
continued to rise. Available evidence suggests that average capacity
utilization has been falling steadily since the early 1970s. Capacity
utilization in 1982 averaged less than 55 percent, and it has deteriorated
further in 1983 and 1984 as a result of the worsening economic situation
and the increasingly critical foreign exchange shortage. Currently,
capacity utilization in industry is estimated to be less than 45 percent.



-9-
Location
25.       The spatial structure of Zambia's industry is unusual in Africa
because it is not concentrated in the administrative/commercial capital.
Rather, about half the establishments and employment are located in cities
in the Copperbelt, along the line of rail, with only around a third in
Central Province, which includes Lusaka. Five of the country's nine
provinces have less than 3 percent of the firms and less than one percent
of industrial employment.
Import Intensity and Export Performance
26.       Zambian manufacturing is higvIy dependent on imported inputs and
spare parts. Results of a sample of 24 firms surveyed in the Industrial
Sector Report revealed that, on average, firms imported about 50 percent of
their inputs. Only food, textiles and footwear industries import less than
half their inputs, while metal products are the most import-intensive,with
imports accounting for 81% of all Inputs. Chemicals, wood and paper
products also have high import shares in total inputs.
27.       Although the sector is relatively large and more advanced than
that of comparable African countries, manufactured exports are small. The
highest amount of manufactured exports achieved was US$3.3 million in 1974,
which was greater than only 8 out of 34 African countries for which data
are available. Manufactured goods made up only 1.3 percent of Zambia's
exports in 1977 and 0.7 percent in 1980. They represented only 0.6 percent
of gross manufacturing output in 1980. The depreciation of the Kwacha
since 1983 has had a positive effect on manufactured exports, but they
still remain small, accounting for only about 1 percent of overall
exports. The six principal manufactured goods exports are cement,
molasses, copper cable, menswear, crushed stone and lime, and explosives.
Employment, Labor Productivity and Wages
28.       Manufacturing employment grew at more than 11 percent per annum
in the 1960s and 5.6 percent per annum during 1970-74. Thereafter,
employment continued to grow, albeit at only one percent annually, despite
the sharp drop in the value of manufacturing output. This was due to the
public/parastatal sector, where employment was growing at an annual rate of
five percent during 1975-80, more than twice the rate of growth of
parastatal production. In the private sector, both employment and value
added fell at about three percent annually during this period. At
present, Zambia's manufacturing sector employs nearly 60,000 workers, which
amounts to 16 percent of formal sector employment.
29.       As a result of these trends, labor productivity in manufacturing
declined steadily, at an average rate of more than four percent annually,
between 1973 and 1980. Real wages in manufacturing, which rose
substantially during the post-independence boom period, also followed a
declining trend since 1973, falling at an average annual rate of two
percent between 1975 and 1980. Wages in the formal manufacturing sector
are now below the average wages in mining, transport and communications and
services.



- 10 -
The Parastatal Sector
30.       The Government's initial role in the industrial sector was to
provide infrastructure and an adequate policy framework as a complement to
private initiative. The Industrial Development Corporation was established
by the Government to promote and help finance private investment. The
rationale for public intervention in manufacturing was expanded in 1968
when a new strategy, based on the public sector taking a leading role in
industrialization, was adopted. The objective was to establish industries
that private enterprises were unwilling or unable to invest in because of
high risks, high capital costs or low return, and industries deemed to be
in the national interest because of strategic importance. It was hoped
that this would accelerate the pace of industrialization and
Zambianization, insure reinvestment of surpluses in Zambia, and minimize
what was perceived as profiteering by foreign firms.
31.       Among the measures taken to implement the new policies were
regulation of the activities, size and location of private-especially
foreign-enterprises, and Government acquisition of 51 percent or more of
the equity of some 25 private firms in manufacturing, transport,
distribution and fisheries. The Industrial Development Corporation
(INDECO) was turned into a holding company to operate the nationalized
enterprises, as well as those established through direct public
investment. These actions, along with growing direct investment, quickly
gave the parastatal sector a major role in manufacturing. By 1972,
parastatal enterprises accounted for 53 percent of industrial value added
and 42 percent of industrial employment. Since the early 1970s, the
state's share of manufacturing has continued to expand. Manufacturing
parastatals account now for 69 percent of the sector's assets, 66 percent
of value added and 54 percent of employment.
32.       INDECO currently has 33 subsidiary enterprises (16 wholly owned
and 17 majority shareholding) and 4 associated companies, and is itself a
fully-owned subsidiary of ZIMCO (the holding company that oversees all
parastatal enterprises). ZIMCO's influence on INDECO is largely indirect,
exercised through policy guidelines, reviews of performance and of some
decisions, and interlocking boards between ZIMCO and INDECO. Manufacturing
parastatals are present in every major branch of industry, except basic
metals, and play a dominant role in producing consumer goods (such as
mealie meal and flour, beer, cotton, textiles and sugar) and heavier
industrial products, especially fabricated metal products, building
materials, and a variety of both industrial and consumer chemicals.
33.       The financial performance of the INDECO group of companies
deteriorated steadily during the 1970s, from an average gross return on net
assets of 12 percent in 1970 to sizeable losses in the last two years of
the decade. The poor financial performance can be attributed partly to
Government policies (e.g. price controls) and partly to the general
downturn in the economy, but also to weak management, over-dimensioned



- 11 -
plants and excessive employment. There was a slight improvement in the
early 1980s, with gross profits averaging 4 percent of net assets, but the
positive overall gross profits mask widespread losses at the individual
firm level. More importantly, many INDECO enterprises do not appear to be
economically efficient. A preliminary review of the efficiency of INDECO
firms (para. 64) suggests that over 20 percent of INDECO product lines are
economically inefficient in the short run in the sense that their operating
costs (excluding sunk investments) evaluated at border prices exceed their
border-priced revenues, and therefore appear to have negative value added
when measured at world market prices. Less than a third of the product
lines appear to be efficient. The proposed Credit would assist INDECO in
improving the efficiency of its operations.
The Private Sector
34.       While the Government of Zambia has, in practice, maintained a
mixed economy, private industry has been subject to widespread
administrative controls and regulations, coupled with incentives to
selected firms and sectors. The private sector is particularly important
in the production of basic metals, paper and printing, chemicals, textiles
and food and beverages.
35.       Private manufacturing firms are, with few exceptions, smaller
than public sector firms and they have reacted more flexibly to the
changing economic conditions. In particular, private investment has been
low during the last decade, and employment has been declining. Capacity
utilization has been lower in the private sector than in the parastatal
companies in recent years, partly because the administrative allocation of
foreign exchange favored the parastatal firms.
B. The Financial Sector
36.       The financial sector comprises the Bank of Zambia (BOZ), eight
commercial banks, one merchant bank, one savings bank, three development
finance institutions (of which one is a general purpose development bank
and two are agricultural development banks), the National Building Society,
the State Insurance Corporation, which has a monopoly on insurince
business, and the National Provident Fund (a pension fund). Seven of the
eight commercial banks and the merchant bank are either wholly or mainly
foreign owned and controlled, while all the other institutions are either
owned or controlled by the Government. The financial system is reasonably
well developed and has operated in a satisfactory manner, except for the
limitations imposed by Government on interest rates.
37.       The commercial banks account for the bulk of domestic credit and
domestic resource mobilization, mainly through demand and short-term
deposits, and lending for equally short periods, primarily to
agriculture (37 percent), manufacturing (17 percent), mining (12 percent),
and commerce (11 percent). The three development finance inatitutions,
namely, the Development Bank of Zambia (DBZ), the Agricultural Finance



- 12 -
Corporation (AFC) and the Zambia Agricultural Development Bank (ZADB) do
not accept deposits. They depend for their local resources mainly on the
central treasury and on borrowings from the Provident Fund, the Insurance
Corporation and the commercial banks. Their foreign exchange resources are
obtained from multilateral and bilateral sources such as the World Bank and
KfW. Although the Building Society accepts deposits and share
subscriptions, it depends substantially on the same sources of domestic
resources as the development banks. Over 80 percent of the combined assets
of the Insurance Corporation, the Provident Fund and the Savings Bank are
invested in central Government, local authority and parastatal securities.
38.       In spite of periodic increases, deposit and lending interest
rates have been negative in real terms in recent years. In the last four
years interest rates on overdrafts were increased from 9.5 percent to 17.5
percent, and on term loans from 10.25 percent to 17.5 percent, but they are
still below the estimated inflation rate of 20 percent in 1984. Deposit
rates, which used to be fixed by the BOZ on the basis of maturity, are now
subject to only an overall maximum of 15.5 percent p.a. The result of the
negative rates has been to limit domestic resource mobilization and to
generate excess demand for credit. The Government has now decided, in the
context of the introduction of the foreign exchange auction, to decontrol
interest rates.
39.       Tight credit control has been a feature of monetary policy in the
last two years. Successive IMF programs have set limits on Government
budget deficits, net credit from the banking system to the Government, BOZ
lending to the Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines (ZCCM)-the
Government-owned copper mining company-and overall ceilings on credit
expansion. Declining Government budget deficits have reduced its need for
bank credit. There are indications, however, that the deteriorating
financial performance of some state agencies, such as NAMBOARD, is forcing
them to rely more heavily on credit. As a consequence, all commercial
banks now operate close to the credit ceilings set by BOZ.
C. Past Industrial Strategy and Policies
40.       Zambia's industrial development strategy during the late 1960s
and the 1970s did not achieve its objective of generating sustainable
economic growth. In an effort to accelerate industrialization, which was
seen as the main engine of development, and to increase employment and
domestic ownership in the main economic sectors, the Government embarked on
a strategy characterized by: (i) Government ownership of the major
industrial enterprises;  (ii)  major public sector investments in
intermediate sectors (chemicals, fertilizers, cement) and consumer durables
(e.g. automobile assembly); (iii) elimination of foreign competition
through import licensing and tariffs; (iv) elimination of domestic
competition through restrictive investment licensing and other regulations;
and (v) almost exclusive concentration on the domestic market through
import substitution. This strategy was to be supported by the revenues
generated by the mining sector which provided both the domestic incomes and



- 13 -
demand for industrial goods, and the fiscal and foreign exchange resources
necessary to pay for the imports of capital goods and inputs for the new
industries.
41.       While the above strategy was successful in expanding and diversi-
fying ZambI 1's industrial sector, its major shortcomings were, first, the
neglect    the agricultural sector and, second, in the industrial sector,
high capital and import intensity for new investments, excess capacity in
some of the new firms, and low levels of efficiency in others, as well as
the sector's total dependence on the domestic market, without any attention
to exports. The main policies through which the Government pursued its
past industrial strategy are reviewed below.
Foreign Exchange Regime
42.       Exchange Rate.  Zambia's exchange rate has been significantly
overvalued for a prolonged period of time. The Government pursued a fixed
exchange rate policy until the end of 1982. The Kwacha underwent virtually
no change in its nominal rate in the 30-year period ending in 1980, when it
stood at US$1 = K 0.78.   After 1974, however, Zambia experienced higher
inflation than its trading partners, and the real effective exchange rate
as measured by the difference in inflation in Zambia and its trading
partners, appreciated by about 25 percent in US dollar terms between 1974
and 1982.
43.       The over-valuation of the exchange rate during the late 1970s and
early 1980s reduced the competitiveness of Zambia's tradeable goods, both
domestically and abroad, and put additional pressure on an already
difficult balance of payments situation. In an attempt to deal with this
situation, the Government devalued the Kwacha by 20 percent in January
1983. Six months later a crawling peg exchange rate system was adopted,
leading to several small and regular devaluations, which resulted in a
further nominal devaluation of 40 percent through December 1984. When
account is taken of the differential inflation rates between Zambia and its
main trading partners,these devaluations put the real value of the Kwacha
in 1984 back at the 1974 level.
44.       The exchange rate realignments in 1983 and 1984 were insufficient
to regain external equilibrium under present economic conditions, partly
because of the decline in Zambia's terms of trade and partly because of the
increased debt and arrears. Under these conditions, there continued to be
a significant excess demand for foreign exchange.   The large backlog of
commercial payment arrears, an increasing amount of import licenses for
which no foreign exchange has been available, and the evidence of a
parallel market which is a multiple of the existing official rate, are a
reflection of the fact that as of early 1985, the Kwacha continued to be
significantly overvalued.



- 14 -
45.       Import and Foreign Exchange Controls.  An elaborate system of
import and foreign exchange controls developed over the years to protect
domestic industries and maintain external equilibrium with the highly
distorted exchange rates. The core of this system has been: (i) an
import licensing process administered by the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry; and (ii) a foreign exchange allocation process administered by
the BOZ. An Inter-Ministerial Committee, including the Miuistries of
Finance, Commerce and Industry, and BOZ, granted specific import licenses
to individual importers or enterprises. The import license, however, did
not guarantee access to foreign exchange because of the shortages and
because of inadequate forecasting of foreign exchange availability. As a
result, a backlog of uncovered import licenses developed over the years.
Holders of import licenses have to queue at commercial banks for letters of
credit to be opened, and the commercial banks have, in practice, a
significant influence in the final foreign exchange allocation. In some
cases, BOZ also played a direct role by granting allocations directly to
firms, and instructing commercial banks to give priority to certain import
license holders.
46.       As the foreign exchange shortage worsened, the system of import
licensing/foreign exchange allocation became the main instrument of
industrial policy in Zambia. Import licenses for products competing with
locally produced goods were first reduced and later virtually eliminated.
At the same time, imports of. industrial inputs were allocated, on a firm by
firm basis, at levels well below the demand coming from the enterprises at
the overvalued exchange rate. Firms receiving a relatively large
allocation were in a position to make high profits because of the lack of
competition from imports and the growing shortages and rising prices in
Zambia. On the other hand, firms receiving little or no foreign exchange
were forced to operate at very low levels or even to stop production for
some periods of time. This situation generated inequities in the treatment
of individual firms, inefficient allocation of resources, and windfall
profits for some firms or individuals, while making redundant most other
instruments of industrial policy (including tariffs).
Tariff Structure
47.       The structure of import tariffs in Zambia was characterized by
high tariff rates on consumer and luxury goods (up to 150 percent) and
low-or zero-rates on inputs and capital goods for the domestic industry.
This structure, which produces high levels of effective protection for
local industries engaged in assembly or processing-type activities, was
intended to encourage rapid industrialization and protect infant
industries. In practice, however, the tariff structure became irrelevant
because, as noted above, the system of import licensing/foreign exchange
allocation eliminated foreign competition and provided absolute protection
to the firms receiving foreign exchange.   This is reflected in the actual
structure of imports and tariff revenues. The bulk of imports have been
raw materials and other inputs coming in duty-free, and the average tariff
revenue collection, as a percentage of imports, has been about 6 percent
(compared to 20 percent for a sample of 32 Sub-Saharan African countries



- 15 -
for which data is available). The low tariff revenue collections also
reflected widespread exemptions and exonerations granted as incentives to
local industries on their imported inputs.
Price Controls
48.       Price controls have been a major feature of Zambia's economy
since the 1960s. During the 1970s, the Government intensified and
generalized the system of price controls in an attempt to control the
pricing behavior of the protected local industry anl, more recently, to
protect consumers in a situation of increasing shortages. Three major
categories of prices came under some form of control: farm gate prices of
agricultural goods, wholesale and retail prices of "essential commodities",
and prices of some products of parastatal companies. Faced with mounting
fiscal costs because of subsidies, low agricultural output, and its
inability to control retail prices effectively, the Government introduced,
in December 1982, a major change in its pricing policy. Agricultural
producer prices were raised sharply and, in a move to increase reliance on
market mechanisms, the Government approved a major decontrol of wholesale
and retail prices, leaving the prices of only maize meal, wheat flour and
bread, and candles subject to prior government approval. In early 1985,
the prices of wheat flour and bread were also decontrolled. At the same
time, however, farm gate prices of agricultural commodities and the prices
of agricultural inputs continue to be set by the Government, and the prices
of certain products of parastatal firms are subject to review by INDECO and
ZI[nCO.
Investment Incentives
49.       Private sector investment in manufacturing has been low since the
late 1960s, first, because the Government's 1968 decision to increase its
direct involvement in manufacturing-including majority participation in
firms previously in the hands of the private sector-reduced private sector
confidence and, later, because of declining economic activity. In 1977,
the Government enacted an Industrial Development Act in an effort to
attract new private investment to manufacturing. The Act was not
successful, however, partly because of the increasing deterioration of the
economic situation, and partly because it did not fully abandon the overall
industrial strategy of granting a dominant role to Government and a
subordinate role to the private sector. The Act, which was highly
regulatory, did not provide any new incentives that were not generally
available to all manufacturers, and access to the incentives was
arbitrary.
Export Incentives and Regulations
50.       Manufactured exports were singled out for some additional
benefits in the Industrial Development Act, but these were more than
compensated by the negative impact of exchange rate overvaluation and
detailed export regulations. The latter, including the requirement to
obtain an export license for each export shipment, were related to the



- 16 -
Government objectives of preventing shortages in the local markets and of
avoiding capital flight. When the need to increase exports became
evident in the early 1980s, the Government established a new export
incentive, allowing all non-traditional exporters to retain 50 percent of
their gross earnings for importation of approved inputs.
PART III - THE GOVERNMENT ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM IN INDUSTRY
A. New Industrial Policies
51.       An immediate objective of the Government's new industrial
strategy is to raise the level of capacity utilization in the sector by
providing additional foreign exchange to efficient import-substitution
industries and exporters. Increased industrial production would reduce the
economic and social pressures associated with the economic stabilization
and adjustment process, and the growth in industrial exports would help to
regain external equilibrium. In the longer term, the Government's
objective is to increase the efficiency of the industrial sector and its
export orientation by instituting an incentive structure and a set of
policies that encourage the flow of investment resources to the more
productive industrial subsectors and away from inefficient industries. In
order to attain these objectives the Government is committed to pursue a
less protective, more outwardoriented industrial strategy, to rely
increasingly on market forces to allocate resources, and to reduce the
share and increase the efficiency of the public sector in manufacturing.
52.       The Government is aware that provision of the additional foreign
exchange needed to alleviate shortages of imported inputs would not promote
efficient industrial growth unless the controls and restrictions currently
in place are removed and the policy framework changed. Consequently, it
has adopted-or intends to set in place-a number of institutional and
policy reform measures. These are summarized in the following paragraphs.
Implementation of these measures would be supported by the proposed
project. The measures are designed to improve the foreign exchange regime,
reform the import regime, remove disincentives to exports, streamline and
improve investment incentives, increase the efficiency of public enter-
prises and improve the public sector's investment program in manufacturing.
53.       Exchange Rate Realignment.  A more realistic exchange rate is
regarded by the Government as the cornerstone of its new development
strategy and of the proposed reforms of industrial policy. The Government
has now approved the introduction of an auction system for the
determination of the exchange rate. The new system, which is to be
initiated shortly, will be based on a weekly or bi-weekly auction of
foreign exchange at which the exchange rate which would then apply to all
foreign exchange transactions is determined by the marginal bid which
exhausts the foreign exchange available for auction. Administrative
allocation, at the auction rate, will continue for the foreign exchange
requirements of the Government, ZCCM, public debt service, and for imports
of crude oil, drugs, books and, when necessary, maize and fertilizer. Bids



- 17 -
to purchase foreign exchange through the auction are to be made through
commercial banks for the private sector and parastatal enterprises, and
through the Ministry of Finance for the Government sector. A Foreign
Exchange Auction Committee (FEAC) will be established to administer the
system. The FEAC will be served by a Secretariat, which will, inter-alia,
match the successful bids with the various sources of foreign exchange
being auctioned, i.e., the Government's own resources, the proceeds of this
Credit, and other sources. Advisors from the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry will advise the Secretariat as to the eligibility of these bids
for resources from the Credit (Schedule 5, draft Development Credit
Agreement and draft African Facility Credit Agreement). Since the amount
that could reasonably be made available for the auction would be
insufficient to meet Zambia's import needs at the current exchange rate, a
sharp depreciation in the auction-determined rate is to be expected.
54.       The proposed auction, the resulting depreciation of the Kwacha,
and the elimination of the excess demand for foreign exchange would
eliminate the potential for windfall profits derived from administrative
access to foreign exchange and, more importantly, would allow industrial
enterprises to have access to imported inputs and spare parts on the basis
of their needs and cost competitiveness rather than their ability to deal
with the committees that allocate foreign exchange. Therefore, the new
system is expected to lead, in the short run, to a more efficient
allocation of the scarce foreign exchange available and, possibly, to an
increase in the supply of foreign exchange through the rechannelling of
transactions from the parallel to the auction market. In the medium and
long run, the expectation is that an increasing number of activities, beth
in industry and agriculture would become internationally competitive, thus
increasing the generation and savings of foreign exchange. Moreover, the
Government has undertaken to adopt prudent fiscal and monetary policies,
which would also help reduce imports. Initiation of the auction system
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Section
6.01(a), draft Development Credit Agreement and draft African Facility
Credit Agreement).
55.       Foreign Exchange Forecasting and Budgeting.  The reform of the
foreign exchange regime would also include improvements in the forecasting
and budgeting of foreign exchange receipts, including those to be
channelled through the auction. This would be necessary to ensure that a
fairly stable amount of foreign exchange is channelled through the auction,
and to minimize short-term fluctuations in the aucticn rate. In connection
with the proposed Credit, BOZ would strengthen the Budget Section of its
Foreign Operations Department by recruiting additional qualified staff and
obtaining the necessary technical assistance to transform the foreign
exchange budget into an operational document. To assist Government in
laying the basis for an improved foreign exchange forecasting and budgeting
process and in defining long-term technical assistance needs, two
staff-months of consultants' services would be financed under a PPF advance
already in place. The completion of this work and implementation of a
follow-up program of action would be a condition of release of the second
tranche. (Schedule 4, draft Development Credit Agreement and draft African
Facility Credit Agreement).



- 18 -
56.       Import Licensing and Prohibitions.  In order to open up the eco-
nomy and promote greater efficiency and diversification, the Government has
undertaken to carry out, together with the reform in the foreign exchange
regime, the elimination of the current import licensing system and its
replacement by a simple system of registration. Elimination of the present
current system of import licensing would be a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed credit (Section 6.01(b), draft Development Credit Agreement
and draft African Facility Credit Agreement). The specific import
prohibitions used for protective purposes, which cover about 50 items, will
also be eliminated along with introduction of the auction system (Section
6.01 (b),draft Development Credit Agreement and draft African Facility
Credit Agreement). These major reforms would shift the full weight of
trade restrictions from the import licensing system to the tariff system.
57.       Import Tariffs.  Recognizing the deficiencies in the tariff
structure, the Government began, in October 1984, to rationalize the tariff
structure by imposing a 10 percent minimum tariff on many items--mostly in-
dustrial inputs--which previously were not subject to duty. Subsequent to
their announcement in the Budget Address of January 25, 1985, the Govern-
ment implemented the following additional changes in customs duties and in
sales taxes on imports:
(a)    removal of certain manufacturer's rebates and duty exemptions on
imports of industrial inputs;
(b)    introduction of duty on all items which were previously exempted
by ministerial decree;
(c)    an increase in the rate of sales tax on imports from 12.5 percent
to 15 percent; and
(d)    an increase in the sales tax on virtually all taxable local
products and services from 10 percent to 15 percent (where the
rate had not yet reached this level).
58.       With the proposed changes in the foreign exchange and import li-
censing systems, the importance of Zambia's tariff and indirect tax struc-
ture will increase, as protection will be granted mainly through tariffs.
Consequently, the Government has now taken the following further measures
which will complete the necessary initial changes in the tariff scructure
and complement the reform in the exchange rate regime: (i) all remaining
items (about 300) which have a zero import tariff rate, except for a res-
tricted list to be agreed upon by IDA and the Government, will be subject
to a 10 percent minimum tariff (plus the 15 percent sales tax) with effect
no later than December 31, 1985 (Schedule 4, draft Development Credit
Agreement and draft African Facility Credit Agreement); (ii) the sales tax,
which applies to all imports but not to all domestically produced goods,
will be extended to all final local goods produced in significant amounts
with effect no later than June 30, 1986 (Section 4.06, draft Development
Credit Agreement and draft African Facility Credit Agreement); and (iii)
high tariff rates on consumer goods will be reduced from a maximum of 150
percent to 100 percent concurrent with introduction of the auction (Section
6.01 (d), draft Development Credit Agreement and draft African Facility
Credit Agreement). To prevent any potential revenue losses from these
measures and to avoid overconsumption of non-essential items, additional
excise taxes-to be applied equally to domestically produced and imported
luxury consumer goods-may be levied if needed on those goods.



- 19 -
59.       The measures adopted to date constitute only the first phase in
the reform of the tariff system. They are designed to: (i) reduce the
dispersion of effective protection rates among products; (ii) reduce
protection on domestic manufacturers by increasing the cost of imported
inputs; (iii) encourage the use of local raw materials, and (iv) increase
tariff revenue. As indicated in its statement of industrial and trade
policy presented in Annex IV of this report, the Government has decided to
establish a Tariff Commission by December 31, 1985 to prepare and carry out
a comprehensive reform of the tariff structure and indirect taxes. This
would be the second phase of the tariff reform. The terms of reference for
the consultant to assist in establishing this Commission were agreed with
IDA during negotiations. The reforms recommended by the Commission would
be implemented not later than June 30, 1987.
60.       Export Promotion.  Given the limited prospects for copper
exports, particularly beyond the year 2000, Zambia's future foreign
exchange availability will depend on the development and growth of
non-traditional exports. The export climate already improved during 1983
and 1984 as a result of the recent devaluations of the Kvacha and
establishment of an export retention scheme. Also, the changes in the
foreign exchange regime discussed above and the expected depreciation of
the Kwacha would provide further encouragement to exports. Tn addition,
the Government has undertaken, or will shortly undertake, the following
additional measures to remove existing procedural impediments to
non-traditional exports:  (i) the system of export licenses has been
replaced by a simple registration procedure; (ii) the existing system of
duty drawbacks, which has complex administrative procedures, would be
replaced no later than recember 31, 1985 by a simpler process based on
average drawbacks for major groups of exports, with the averages to be
revised on a periodic basis; and   (iii) establishment of an autonomous
export promotion board by December 31, 1985, with private sector partic-
ipation, to replace the Zambian Export Promotion Council (ZEPC), a
Government-run instit-ution that has not been able to provide effective
support to exporters. Finally, the Government has decided to carry out
feasibility studies for the establishment of an export credit insurance and
export credit guarantee scheme, to facilitate the initial export operations
of firms that have limited or no previous experience in export markets.
The studies should be initiated not later than December 31, 1985, and a
program of action would be formulated and adopted not later than December
31, 1986 to implement their recommendations (Section 4.02, draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and draft Africar. Facility Credit Agreement).
61.       Investment Incentives.  The Industrial Development Act of 1977,
did not succeed in its objective of encouraging private industrial
investment, primarily because it did not eliminate the heavy regulatory
environment for private investment, and continued to assign to the private
sector a role subordih,ate to that of the Government (para. 49). The
Government has now prepared a draft Investment Act that is more supportive
of the private sector and provides moderate and automatic incentives in the
form of income tax deductions and grants for training and R & D for enter-
prises that either export, produce with high local content, are located in
a rural area or are classified as small-scale enterprise. The enactment



- 20 -
of the act will be a condition of release of the second tranche (Schedule
4, draft Development Credit Agreement and draft African Facility Credit
Agreement). It is to be a radical departure from the 1977 Act in the
positiveness of its provisions for private participation.
62.       Interest Rate De-Control.   In order to permit interest rates to
play a meaningful role in mobilizing and allocating resources and avoid the
adverse effects that negative real interest rates have caused in the past
the Government has decided to decontrol interest rates concurrently or
shortly after the introduction of the auction. This would be a condition
of release of second tranche (Schedule 4, draft Development Credit
Agreement and draft African Facility Credit Agreement).
63.       Public Investment Program in Industry.  All public investment in
manufacturing is carried out by INDECO. INDECO's limited capability to
appraise projects and to assess the performance of established enterprises
has resulted in many uneconomic, capital-intensive and import-dependent
investments and in enterprises continuing to operate even though they were
uneconomic. In the past, INDECO did not prepare time-phased investment
programs but operated on the basis of a "shopping list" of projects that
were then accommodated into INDECO's annual capital budgets on the basis of
the availability of foreign and domestic (i.e. Government) financing.
INDECO has now decided to prepare 3-year rolling investment programs and
has started work on the 1985/86 to 1987/88 period (INDECO's fiscal year
runs from April 1 to March 31). A preliminary review of this program
indicated a high proportion of new projects for an economy with foreign
exchange shortages and widespread capacity underutilization, a high cost
per new job created (US$65,000), and several projects with relatively low
internal financial rates of return. No economic rates of return were
calculated for any of the projects. Based on these preliminary findings,
INDECO's management decided to carry out a detailed appraisal, including
economic feasibility analysis, of all projects in the program with total
costs exceeding US$1 million.   The first stage of this work, carried out
by consultants financed under the PPF, was completed recently, and
agreement was reached on INDECO's investment program for 1985/86. The
second stage, to be financed partly under the PPF and partly under the
technical assistance component of the proposed credit, would provide the
basis for reaching an agreement on INDECO's investment program for
1986/87. This agreement would be a condition of release of the second
tranche of the proposed Credit (Schedule 4, draft Development Credit
Agreement and draft African Facility Credit Agreement). Moreover, INDECO
has agreed to discontinue, by December 31, 1985, projects in the program
costing more than US$1 million equivalent that although started have been
found after detailed appraisal not to be economically viable (Section
4.03(c), draft Development Credit Agreement and draft African Facility
Credit Agreement).
64.       Economic Efficiency of INDECO Enterprises.  A preliminary review
of the economic efficiency of INDECO's existing enterprises was carried
out. This review, which produced estimates for 70 percent of INDECO
activities, suggested that a number of these activities are likely to be



- 21 -
uneconomic under any conditions. Also, the economic viability of
some other activities is questionable. On the other hand, INDECO does
engage in many activities that should be economic. Although these findings
are preliminary and additional work is required to refine the estimates,
they suggest the need for substantial changes in the operation of existing
INDECO enterprises including, possibly, the restructuring of some
enterprises and the closing down of some firms and activities.
65.       In order to carry out a more complete analysis of the economic
efficiency of INDECO enterprises, and to build-up INDECO's capability for
project appraisal and assessment of enterprise performance, INDECO's
management has agreed to: (i) establish an Economic Evaluation Unit that
will apply sound economic criteria for the appraisal of investment projects
and the performance of existing enterprises not later than December 31,
1985 (Section 4.03(a), draft Development Credit Agreement and draft African
Facility Credit Agreement); (ii) initiate, pending the establishment of the
Evaluation Unit, a review of the economic viability and operational
efficiency of existing INDECO enterprises; and (iii) commence implementing
such Program not later than April 1, 1986 (Section 4.04, draft Development
Credit Agreement and draft African Facility Credit Agreement). The review
of INDECO enterprises is underway and is being carried out with the
assistance of IDA. The review will concentrate initially on the
enterprises identified as probably uneconomic and will lead to the
submission to IDA no later than December 31, 1985, of an action program to
restructure or to phase out some enterprises as needed.
66.       INDECO's management is also concerned about the shortage of key
skills such as engineering and financial management/accounting for INDECO
enterprises. This has led to neglect of regular and systematic monitoring
of the technical and economic performance of the enterprises and has
adversely affected operations. Warning signals of deteriorating situations
are not in place, and the operations of enterprises have suffered. One of
the sources of this problem is the INDECO firms' adherence to remuneration
packages that are not competitive with the private sector. INDECO has
agreed to do a study of appropriate compensation levels and other measures
necessary to recruit and retain qualified staff. Terms of reference for
the proposed study has been agreed and INDECO has agreed to implement an
action program acceptable to IDA on renumeration anid other conditions of
service of its key professiona] and technical staff, no later than
April 1, 1986 (Section 4.05, draft Development Credit Agreement and draft
African Facility Credit Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Credit History and Rationale
67.       Industrial sector work by Bank Group staff culminated in the
preparation of an Industrial Sector Report which was discussed with the
Government in June 1984 and distributed to the Executive Directors in



- 22 -
August 1984 (Report No. 4436-ZA). During this period, the dialogue between
the Bank Group and the Government focused on the deteriorating performance
of the manufacturing sector and the need for policy and institutional
reforms. In this regard, the Government requested Bank Group financial and
technical assistance to relax the foreign exchange constraint, to prepare
and implement the policy and institutional changes needed to increase
efficiency and capacity utilization in the short term, and to reorient
industrial production towards increased exports, and greater reliance on
labor and domestic inputs in the medium and long term. At the same time,
the Bank Group's strategy in Zambia ccncentrated on the preparation of
three sector loans, in mining, industry and agriculture, to support the
Government's new development strategy.
68.       The proposed project was appraised in October/November 1984 and a
post-appraisal- mission visited Zambia in February 1985. Negotiations were
held in Washington from July 10, 1985 to July 11, 1985 with a Zambian team
headed by Mr. F.M. Siame, Senior Under Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
This is a combined President's Report and Staff Appraisal Report. A credit
and project summary is presented at the beginning of this report and a
Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
B. Previous Bank Group Support to Industry
69.       The World Bank has assisted the industrial sector in Zambia
through the Development Bank of Zambia (DBZ), which has received two Bank
loans (1210-ZA of FY76 and 1923-ZA of FY81) of US$15 million each, and
three industrial projects: the Indeni Refinery Modification Engineering
(Loan 2151-ZA of FY82), Export Rehabilitation and Diversification (Loan
2391-ZA of FY84) and Maamba Coal Engineering (Credit 1333-ZA of FY83)
operations. IFC has made an equity investment in the DBZ (US$544,000, No.
324-ZA) and investments in four manufacturing firms in Zambia: Century
Packages, Bata Shoe Company, Nchanga Consolidated Copper Mines and Kafue
Textiles. A Fertilizer Restructuring Project, to improve the efficiency of
Nitrogen Chemicals of Zambia, is being processed.
70.       A Project Completion Report on the first DBZ project, prepared in
1983, found that Loan 1210-ZA financed 47 subprojects with an average
subloan amount of US$320,000. Two thirds of the total loan amount were
concentrated in five subsectors: chemicals and plastics, textiles, food
processing, paper and metal products. The second DBZ project (Loan
1923-ZA) is fully committed and 96 percent disbursed. A total of 24
subloans were approved, for an average amount of US$625,000. The loan's
closing date is June 30, 1987. During the implementation of the second
project, DBZ's institutional structure continued to improve, but the
quality of its portfolio has deteriorated somewhat due to the worsening
economic climate in Zambia. The PCR on loan 1210-ZA concluded that the
general objective of the project-to help establish DBZ as a sound and
viable development finance institution-had been largely met. It also
pointed out, however, that the DBZ-financed subprojects were not able to
achieve a significant contribution to solve the country's employment and



- 23 -
balance of payments problems because of Zambia's difflcult overall economic
conditions and continuing problems in the country's policy framework.
These findings were incorporated into the preparation of the proposed
credit, which is designed to support i7portant policy changes. The policy
reforms supported by the credit are expected to lead to a renewal of
private industrial investment in the medium term, both in rehabilitation
and in new enterprises, and future Bank Group operations in Zambia would be
expected to include further resources for investment to be channelled
through DBZ and, possibly, other financial institutions.
C. Credit Objectives
71.       The proposed project's objective is to increase industrial output
in the sub-sectors and firms that can produce efficiently and to help
reorient manufacturing activity towards exports and greater reliance on
labor and local raw materials. The proposed project would support policy
and institutional reforms in several areas where the Government has already
initiated changes or where the Government and the Bank have identified the
need to change existing policies. At the same time, it 'Tould provide part
of the foreign exchange resources necessary to increase output and capacity
utilization of the existing efficient enterprises, and would provide
technical assistance to improve the performance of public manufacturing
enterprises and to evaluate their investment program for 1985/86-1987/88.
The Zambian Government has shown the willingness to carry out a measured,
but wide ranging, policy and institutional reform program, designed to
bring about the economic adjustments needed to stabilize and restore
economic growth to the economy.
72.       In the context of the preparation of the proposed project, the
Government and the Bank Group have reached agreement on development
objectives for the manufacturing sector and on the most appropriate
strategy to achieve them. These understandings are reflected in the
Government's statement of industrial and trade policy, presented in
An-ex V of this report. The specific policy changes to be supported by the
project have been the subject of extensive discussions between the Bank
Group, the Government of Zambia and, where appropriate, the IMF, and have
already yielded tangible results. Two major policy changes (introduction
of an auction system for foreign exchange and elimination of the present
system of import licensing) that would substantially increase the reliance
on market mechanisms for allocating resources would take place before the
proposed credit becomes effective. Other policy changes would be taken
concurrent with the above or in the immediate future. The main features of
the poltcy reforms supported by this project are summarized in the form of
a matrix on pages 24, 25 and 26.



MEY OF meiRt UJM4M FM DEMtIAL -O
TDID  (1 DQUaIEFAT[
I_ aswe  l9Sn                    other .Bm   In 1965
1. n!o n~etfI
Obj  ctive: lb establiah a     Dwaluatiou In 1983 and 1984  Ebtablidsnt of aiction
Tore i exdwtp relgi  that       (23 percnt in rea tons).       sytt  for focetip eF
will: (1) repin extermal        Oalivg peg In late 1984 and   (8/85)* (pra. 53).
equtliritsu  (ii) allocate      early 1965 (pan. 43).                          hp                   l     an a of prg    of
foreeiio exhap  efficiently;                                                                   ttitm  to 4qICS fo_min
asd (Ii1) eraurw  exportt                                                                     ad hptitg of fogia
and efftcient t4port                                                                           _a* (pre. 5I).
substitution.
II.Aport am nm!q  1g
llidnatitoof pcnt IqIt
lltcmu     roti (8/85)*
Objective: lb  nereme                                          (pra. 56.)
efficienry a  cubrd
ortentation of Zmbai                                           Elliunatlat of all ipwt
irAi&trial sector (and                                         pedibitiau for protwctFv
owerall ecwa   ).pupainm (abou 50 Item)
(8/85) (pail. 56).*
tbtabl       of 10 prwt
11nlu taritff of 10 perwt    tariff en  15 puat tat on
an lura mmbn of Inpits         xinid     tt   (12/85*)
(10/84) (pra. 57).             (pra. 35).
Eliuination of emqptoaai ad    Ihda  tariff rate rewd    Rlather tariff rictlas and
rebates of lqport dutti an     frtc  150 to 100 parot (8/85)  dw*ms awast14 fra  Mliff
1aw.V muter of Inputs (1/85)   (par. 53).*                    Obdhon rn datt
(pana. 57).                                                   (pa  59).
S4ilificatio of export                                        fltium  of 15 nabs tat to
lsitrg (tration)                                              all fizul dtic gob 
Wotan (Pira. 60).                                             prod in UiwfiLcut
quatitim  (6/86) (pan. S).
*idition of effectivet
**Iition of relem. of tl           tmunI



-25-
}  s §-  a ] tS                 f l E   t i i~~~~~a 3
§~~~~1                             I     sXjX1
kcS~~S                             I._      t 
.5    ~ ~ g'i                 iIg 
~~~~~~~~~i 8 !            



I_Nr  Takelin             Other NBiutsin 1915                     Dz.i  196
IV. PUblic Sector  hwinut mr batrpr1s
O tIetth i tncreme            Initiate reviw of etuic        Eatablialent of Eommc                   n o the   t m ad
efficiency In now public       viability of BUM                WbaluatL  Udit at D1020      coaition of IMU0's
tnvene t ad rattalzie          enterprli with Mt             (12/8S) (pas. 64).             int     PE- for
die operatilm of e3datltg      aaistare  (5/85) (pjra. (A).                                 19ff6/87  (ar. 63).
public aindtrial
siterpriem.
hnrm~t an the awmt ad         All Innstt projects aboe
eaqioltion d DI5's            W$1 million faud not viabl
Inveesbt pIng for 1965/86  to be diawtiml (12/85)
(pan. 63).                    (pa. 63).
Saledt to Mt action prgrm     Gu , by4 Atl 1, 1986,
to ph     t enterprise fan!    qamlmiri   of aactia
clely nm-vable adP pDrom to pem  mt
atn tbase those Wkaly to be  am-Aable enterpdm  wA to
viAble (12/85) (per. 65).     retnrture tl lDlly to be
viable (pja. (6). 
Tpl_z,!t Actiom ktE    ao
_nutun    f lNE= staff
(4M6) (pra. 6).
* Odition of effectivaa
O* Odition of meleae of
the seciu tranhe.



- 27 -
D. Project Components
73.       The proposed operation will total US$62 million to which IDA will
contribute US$20 million and the African Facility US$42 million. Special
Joint Financing of 10 million pounds sterling (US$13 million equivalent) is
expected to be provided by the United Kingdom for the project. The IDA and
African Facility contributions will respectively finance the following
components:
African
IDA        Facility
US$ Million US$ Million Total
(i)  Financing of imported spare        17.8         42.0      59.8
parts, raw materials and
other productive inputs
for industry;
(ii)  Technical assistance to             1.8            -       1.8
INDECO, the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry, the
Ministry of Finance, and BOZ
(iii)  equipment and vehicles              0.2            -       0.2
(iv)  training                            0.2           -        0.2
20.0         42.0     62.0
The proposed credits would be made to the Republic of Zambia. The funds
allocated for the industrial imports component (US$59.8 million) would be
sold by the BOZ through the foreign exchange auction system, while the
funds al'located for technical assistance (US$1.8 million), equipment and
vehicles (US$0.2 million) and training (US$0.2 million) would be made
available on a grant basis, to INDECO and to the BOZ. Xvacha received from
the sale of the credit proceeds would be remitted to the Treasury for
general government purposes.
Industrial Imports Component
74.       The purpose of this component of US$59.8 million (about 96
percent of the credit) is to help efficient enterprises in manufacturing
operate at higher levels of capacity utilization. As they bid successfully
in the auction for foreign exchange, they would use the credit proceeds to
import raw materials, spare parts and other inputs for their operations.
Overall capacity utilization levels for industry are expected to rebound
modestly, i.e., from less than 45 percent in 1984 to about 55 percent in
1986. Given the expected low ceilings on total domestic credit and on
credit to the public sector, as well as the continuing foreign exchange
shortage, only efficient firms with good sales performance are expected to
be in a position to purchase foreign exchange. Hence, while overall



- 28 -
capacity utilization is expected to increase only moderately in 1986, above
its low level in 1985, a different, improved distribution among subsectors
and among firms is expected to emerge because of the new, market-determined
exchange rate and allocation mechanism.
75.       The Zambian Government presented to the Consultative Group
Meeting in May 1984 estimates which showed that in order to meet domestic
demand and increase capacity utilization the foreign exchange resources
available would fall short of the industrial sector's requirements by about
US$100 million in 1985 and by US$120 million in 1986. The estimated gaps
were based on expected copper prices which were higher than those now
projected for 1985 and 1986. Also, capital inflows have been less than
previously expected. Against this background, Bank staff estimate that the
sector's requirements for foreign exchange to achieve a modest increase in
capacity utilization rates will be about US$240 million in 1985, rising to
US$260 million in 1986. Allocations from the country's foreign exchange
receipts have declined from over $200 million per annum in 1981-83 to an
estimated US$140 million in 1984, but it is not likely that even this
amount would be available in the next couple of years. Thus, the
unfinanced gap is likely to approach $150 million per annum over the next
two years, and the amount of the proposed two Credits of US$62.0 million,
alox-g with the Special Joint Financing from the United Kingdom, would cover
about 50 percent of the gap during the first year. Also, the African
Development Bank has expressed interest in providing about US$30 million in
support of the objectives of the project.
76.       The proceeds of the industrial imports component would be added
to the foreign exchange pool available for auction and would thereby make
additional foreign exchange resources available to manufacturing enter-
prises. While the auction would make foreign exchange available for the
importation of a wide range of goods other than inputs for industry,
disbursements from the proposed credit would be made only to reimburse
against imports of goods for the manufacturing sector. BOZ would be
responsible for the overall implementation of this component, including the
submission of withdrawal requests to IDA.
Technical Assistance Component
77.       The second component for US$1.8 million (about 2 percent of the
Credit) includes technical assistance to INDECO, BOZ and the Ministries of
Finance and of Commerce and Industry. This component is of critical
importance as it would provide technical support for the policy and
institutional reforms to be undertaken by the Government of Zambia in the
coming years, particularly in the areas of public industrial investment and
public enterprises management, reform of the foreign exchange regime,
tariff and tax reform and export incentives. The draft terms of reference
for all tasks under this component have been prepared and were discussed
and agreed during negotiations. Specifically, the main elements of the
component are as follows:



- 29 -
Ci)       142 staff-months of consultants' services to help Improve
INDECO's capacity to appraise investment projects and evaluate
and improve the performance of existing enterprises. This
includes 24 staff-months of short-term consultants'
services--four staff-months of which are financed under the
PPF-for an assessment of the economic viability of projects in
INDECO's investment program for the three-year period 1985/86 to
1987/88).The total estimated cost of this component is US$1.4
million.
(ii)      21 staff-months of consultants services to help BOZ improve its
capacity to forecast and budget foreign exchange and provide
on-the-job staff training in this area; this includes two
staff-months of consultants' services provided under the PPF to
begin this task. The total estimated cost of this component is
US$280,000.
(iii)     two staff-months of consultants' services under the PPF to help
the Ministry of Finance establish the tariff commission, drawing
up the terms of reference and work program of the Commission, and
identifying its staff requirements. In addition, three staff
months would be provided to assist the Ministry of Finance to
simplify the duty drawback system and to identify areas for
expanding the coverage of the sales tax. The total estimated
cost of this component Is US$70,000.
(iv)      four staff-months of consultants' services (to be provided by the
International Trade Center) under the PPF to help the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry establish the export promotion board. The
total estimated cost of this component is US$50,000.
A total of 12 staff-months of consultants' services, costing US$160,000
would be provided under a PPF now in place.
Equipment and Vehicles
78.       This component includes the provision of a small amount of
equipment and some vehicles to assist with the establishment of INDECO's
Economic Evaluation Unit. The total estimated cost of this component is
US$160,000.
Training
79.       The Project would finance about five man-years of training to
assist INDECO to strengthen the economic evaluation work. The estimated
total cost of this component is US$240,000.
80.       UNDP/UNIDO have expressed interest in providing US$439,000 to
finance part of the program for INDECO. Assistance to INDECO's proposed
Economic Evaluation Unit and the purchase of some vehicles and equipment
have been suggested for UNIDO's consideration because they are discrete
components and fit the amount earmarked by UNDP/UNIDO. Should the



- 30 -
UNIDO-executed UNDP project finance these elements of the Technical
Assistance component, the correqponding amount under the credit would be
reallocated to the industrial Imports component.
E. Procurement and Disbursement
81.       The proceeds of the US$59.8 million component for industrial
imports would be disbursed in two tranches of US$40 million and US$19.8
million, respectively, and are expected to be disbursed over about an
eight-month period at an average rate of about US$8 million per month. The
first tranche would be available upon effectiveness. The second tranche
(Schedule 4, draft Development Credit Agreement and draft African Facility
Credit Agreement) would be available about six months after effectiveness,
or about February 28, 1986. Disbursement of the second tranche would be
conditioned on a satisfactory review of progress on the policy reform
program, as described in the Government's statement of industrial and trade
policies, including; (i) agreement on the size and composition of INDECO's
1986/87 investment program; (ii) adoption of a x-ew Investment Act; (iii)
implementation of a program of action to imnrov' forecasting and budgeting
of foreign exchange, (iv) establishment of 10 percent minimum tariff on
remaining items, (v) export duty drawback simplification, and (vi) interest
rate decontrol.
82.       Industrial Imports Component.   To facilitate disbursement and
procurement under the industrial imports component, two special accounts
would be established in BOZ, one for the IDA credit and one for the African
Facility Credit (Schedule 6, draft Development Credit Agreement and
draft African Facility Credit Agreement). After credit effectiveness, an
initial deposit of US$14 million would be made by the African Facility and
US$6 million by IDA to the respective special accounts. These accounts
would be replenished on a regular monthly basis.With subsequent
replenishments made on the basis of statements of expenditure the BOZ would
certify that the credit proceeds were used for eligible expenditures.
These accounts would be reolenished on a regular monthly basis.
83.       The proceeds of the credit for this component would be sold to
successful bidders at the auction-determined exchange rate. Enterprises
can be expected to procure their materials and spare parts from the most
efficient source and to minimize costs; consequently, only items costing in
excess of US$2 million would be procured by procedures that include broad
international tendering among suppliers. Expenditures covered by the IDA
credit would be in accordance with usual IDA rules while expenditures
covered by the African Facility Credit would be in accordance with the
resolution establishing the Facility, i.e., for goods produced in, or
services supplied from, the territories of any Part II member of IDA, Part
I members of IDA who have contributed to the African Facility and any
country which maintains arrangements with IDA for Special Joint Financing
in accordance with the Resolution establishing the Facility. Disbursements
would cover 100 percent of the foreign cost of the imported inputs and
spare parts.



- 31 -
84.       Technical Assistance, Equipment and Vehicles, and Training
Components. The selection of consultants under the technical assistance
component and the terms and conditions of the consultants' employment, as
well as their qualifications, would be satisfactory to IDA. Disbursement
from the funds earmarked under the credit for these components (US$2.2
million) would cover 100 percent of expenditures for consultant services
and training and 100 percent of the foreign cost and 75 percent of the
local cost of equipment and vehicles. The procurement of equipment and
vehicles would be carried out on the basis of local competitive bidding, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA (Schedule 3, draft Development
Credit Agreement).
85.       Disbursements under these components would be fully documented.
However, purchases costing US$100,000 or less under the industrial imports
component would be on the basis of statements of expenditure. These
statements will be periodically reviewed by auditors (Section 4.01(c),
draft Development Credit Agreement).
86.       Accounts and Audit.  The accounts to be maintained by the Bank of
Zambia under the proposed credit would be audited by auditors acceptable to
IDA and certified copies of the relevant audited accounts would be
submitted to IDA (Section 4.01(a) and (b), draft Development Credit
Agreement and draft African Facility Credit Agreement). A set of audited
accounts would be submitted in time for the release of the second tranche
and another at the end of disbursements.
F. Benefits, Risks and Justification
87.       The proposed credit, through its support of the policy and
institutional changes discussed above, would help increase the efficiency
of Zambia's manufacturing sector and would lead to improved allocation of
resources in the economy. In addition, the increase in the availability of
foreign exchange in 1985 and 1986 would allow the more cost competitive
among existing industrial enterprises to operate at higher levels of
capacity utilization. This impact would be expanded if, as expected, other
international agencies and bilateral donors agree to provide parallel
financing. The resources to be provided by the proposed credit would
prevent a further fall in industrial capacity utilization, and would allow,
in 1986, an average level similar to that of 1983, i.e. about 55 percent
but with an improved distribution among subsectors and firms. It would
also allow the maintenance of the level of employment and output in
manufacturing which would otherwise fall. After 1987, the beneficial
impact of the new policies, particularly the new foreign exchange regime,
is expected to result in further increases in output and, most importantly,
manufactured exports. Without the proposed credit and the reforms it
supports, the level of capacity utilization would continue to fall,
employment and output in the sector would be further reduced, and linkages
to the agricultural sector would diminish. GDP would continue to decline,
resulting in further hardship for the Zambian population.



- 32 -
88.       The proposed package of policy measures, together with the
expected improvements in the efficiency of public enterprises and the
rationalization of the public investment program would eliminate
long-standing distortions in the economy and provide powerful incentives
for the reorientation of manufacturing and other productive activities
(e.g. agriculture) away from their historical inward-looking stance of
producing primarily for the domestic market, and towards exporting
manufactured and other goods that Zambia has not traditionally exported or
has exported only in small quantities. The eliminatior of the
over-valuation in the exchange rate, the liberalization of the interest
rate and the withdrawal of duty exemptions on many imported capital goods
and raw materials would provide incentives to increase the use of labor and
domestic raw materials, and to reduce the sector's dependence on imported
capital goods and inputs which require scarce foreign exchange. Within the
Government's ew industrial development strategy, the improved
macroeconoa..c policy environment, together with the new Investment Act,
are expected to lead to increased private sector investment in efficient
import-substitution, as well as export-oriented, industrial activities.
Finally, the expected gradual improvements in the performance of public
industrial enterprises (the INDECO Group), including INDECO's investment
program, would increase the productivity of the sector. Thus, the net
effect would be to turn Zambia's industrial sector into an important
contributor to the solution of the country's economic problems rather than
being one of the sources of the crisis as it has been in the past.
89.       The aggregate impact of the project on income and welfare levels
in expected to be positive. Aggregate employment levels in the economy are
expected to be higher under the proposed credit than in the absence of the
program, since: (i) the reforms will eliminate biases (in the exchange
rate, interest rates and tariffs) which have encouraged the use of capital
and discouraged the use of labor; (ii) a more productive use of resources
in the economy will result in higher investment and GDP levels than
otherwise; and (iii) the additional availability of foreign exchange from
this credit will result in higher capacity utilization. Overall income
distribution is also expected to improve under the proposed program as a
result of the higher employment levels and of the change in the internal
terms of trade in favor of the heretofore relatively unprotected
agricultural sector. Welfare levels are therefore likely to be higher for
the average Zambian and for the lower income population in particular. The
main social costs are likely to include price increases as a result of the
expected depreciation of the Kwacha, and an increase in unemployment in the
short run for some inefficient, overprotected industries, and real wages
may continue to fall in the non-tradeable goods sector, which may generate
social and political pressures from segments of the urban middle-class.
However, price adjustments already took place during 1983 and 1984
following the price liberalization, and the overall income and employment
gains in the tradeable good sector, and in the efficient industries in
general, are expected to more than compensate for the economic losses in
some subsectors.



- 33 -
90.       Zambia's stabilization and adjustment process is now at critical
crossroads, with the short-term costs and benefits already being felt, but
with most of the expected long-term benefits not yet visible. In this
context, the risks of the proposed credit, and of the adjustment program
with which it is associated, relate to the uncertainties about the length
and the severity of the current economic crisis in Zambia, and the
Government's ability to withstand the social pressures that are likely to
be generated against the continuation of the reforms. Several factors make
taking this risk acceptable. First and most importantly, the Government
has already shown, during the past two years, its commitment to the reforms
and its ability to carry out the necessary measures, including some
politically sensitive ones. This includes a major price liberalization,
gradual successive devaluations followed by the decision to establish the
auction scheme, major reductions in the public sector deficit by reducing
subsidies, increases in interest rates and the recent improvements in the
tariff structure. Secondly, the prolonged nature and severity of the
current economic crisis has helped create a national consensus in Zambia
that there is a need for change.   Thirdly, the continuing progress in the
policy reform process-which is already more than two years old-is
expected to start 'turning the tide' in terms of spreading the benefits of
the reform in the near future.  In fact, the rapid growth of
non-traditional exports-although from a very low base-in 1984 is already
an indication that the supply response of the Zambian economy has started
to produce positive results. And, last but not least, the risks of
reversing the adjustment process are directly reduced by the proposed
project because the relaxation of the foreign exchange constraint would
allow the structural transformation of the industrial sector-and, indeed,
of the overall economy-to take place at a lower short-term cost in terms
of lost output and employment. Bank Group staff will closely monitor
progress in execution of the measures and will use the tranching mechanism
to reinforce the policy dialogue. Following the expected satisfactory
completion of the proposed project, additional stages in the ongoing policy
and institutional reforms would be supported through subsequent credits in
the sector.
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
9i.       Since 1956, the Bank Group has made 28 loans and 14 credits to
Zambia, totalling about U$780 million (net of cancellations). Two
additional Bank loans were made to Zambia and Zimbabwe jointly to finance
shared power facilities on the Zambezi River. Fourteen loans and six
credits have financed energy, transportation, communications and rural
water supply projects. Four loans and one credit for education have helped
expand Zambia's secondary and higher education systems, teacher training,
and commercial, agricultural and technical education systems. Two program
loans have helped Zambia maintain its development program in periods of
severe economic dislocation. In agriculture, forestry and fisheries, six
loans and six credits have been for industrial forest plantations and wood
processing, livestock, commercial crops, integrated family farming, coffee
production, smallholder dairy development and fisheries development.
Agricultural projects in the Eastern and Southern Provinces are assisting



- 34 -
smallholder farmers, and an Agricultural Rehabilitation Project is
providing inputs to the sector in support of policy reforms. Other loans
havb assisted Zambjia's urban development program, copper mining and,
through the Development of Bank of Zambia, its manufacturing, agricultural
and industrial sectors. A technical assistance credit is helping the
Government improve its planning and project preparation.
92.       The International Finance Corporation (IFC) has invested about
US$85 million in eleven projects in Zambia since 1972. Two investments
were in shoe manufacturing, two in a packaging materials plant, two in
textiles, and one each in the Development Bank of Zambia, cobalt
production, copper production, tourism and in food and food processing.
93.       The implementation of Bank-assisted projects in Zambia has
deteriorated significantly in recent years, and serious delays have been
experienced in the execution of a number of these projects. There are
several reasons for this, the main one being the lack of budgetary
resources with which to finance local counterpart expenditures and to
prefinance local expenditures which are subsequently to be reimbursed by
the Bank loan. Most seriously affected have been the Bank's agricultural
projects for which funds, although budgeted, have not been released to the
executing agencies for several months. Other reasons for the lagging
implementation of projects are ineffective project management and
inadequate inter-agency coordination. The Bank-assisted agricultural
projects, which require careful management and effective coordination due
to their complex design, have suffered from these problems, as has the
Third Highway Project.
94.       The deterioration of project implementation has, as expected,
substantially reduced the rate of disbursements on Bank Group loans and
credits. During the first four years of the period FY77-81, the
disbursement rate on loans and credits to Zambia averaged slightly over 25
percent per annum, higher than the Bankwide average of 21.2 percent, or the
21.5 percent average for the Eastern Africa Region, and well above the 22.2
percent for Tanzania, 23.4 percent for Senegal and 20.2 percent for
Bolivia. In FY81, however, the rate dropped to just over 16 percent,
compared with 20.7 percent Bankwide, 16.5 percent for Eastern Africa, 23.6
percent for Tanzania, 20.8 percent for Senegal and 21.2 percent for
Bolivia. The rate has risen since FY81, reaching 20.1 percent in FY83,
which was slightly below the average for the Eastern Africa Region (20.7
percent) and for the Bank overall (20.8 percent). To alleviate the
problem, provision is being made for technical assistance in projects to
strengthen implementing agencies and increased use of the Resident Mission
in monitoring project execution. Revolving funds are being established
under new and ongoing projects which should ease the Government's financial
burden and accelerate disbursements. The Bank or IDA makes advance
deposits into these funds to eliminate the need for prefinancing by the
Government of local expenditures financed by the Bank/IDA. In addition,
estimates of counterpart funds required and when the funds should be made
available are being prepared by Bank/IDA staff well in advance of their



- 35 -
need to allow implementing agencies as much lead time as possible to plan
for these expenditures. As of December 1983, IBRD loans disbursed and
outstanding were about 12 percent of Zambia's total medium and long-term
debt disbursed and outstanding.
95.       The Bank Group's strategy in Zambia is to support the country's
efforts to diversify and increase economic efficiency. Raising the
efficiency of the mining industry through the Export Rehabilitation and
Diversification loan so that the industry may contribute resources for
diversification programs was the first step in carrying out this strategy.
Subsequent operations, such as the recently-approved Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project and the proposed project will focus on improving
sector policies in agriculture and industry, which are, respectively, the
sectors with the best potential for production and export growth and for
employment creation. The Group's strategy also gives priic-rity to programs
to increase the use of indigenous energy resources and to ratse the
efficiency of transportation services. Emphasis will be given to
rehabilitation and maintenance, rather than expausion, of infrastructure
and Bank Group assistance is expected to include a significant proportion
of quick-disbursing resources. Support in addressing the longer-term
development constraints, e.g., improving economic management, education,
population, health, etc., is also part of the strategy. Policy and
institutional reform programs in each of the sectors, as well as on the
macroeconomic level, are being agreed with the Government.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
96.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Zambia and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
97.       The draft African Facility Credit Agreement between the Republic
of Zambia and the Association is also being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
98.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Annex III of this
report. The following conditions for credit effectiveness would apply: the
Government (a) would initiate the operations of the foreign exchange
auction system; (b) would eliminate the present system of import licenses
for all goods and participants in the auction system; (c) would eliminate
all import prohibitions for protective purposes; and (d) would reduce
maximum tariff rates from 150 to 100 percent.
99.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
100.      I am also satisfied that the proposed Africa Facility Credit
would comply with Resolution No. IDA 85-1 adopted on May 21, 1985 by the
Executive Directors of the Association.



- 36 -
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
101.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit and the African Facility Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
August 20, 1985
Washington, D.C.



-37                                               ANNEXI
Page 1 of 6
am" (LSU VJ4) AL
on                        (no aim     £ !As  AL.
U=in.a  Eam              iNrni  im
In1   1            Simla            All=Aifi . ON Sla    N. IVUCA & KU 1*8
TM                    .               6.6       75L3        75326
*  usim.me.*                                    1.ur       401.s.
cm                                      ..          ..          u                Ia                        1169
CuaLMn W OIL Nlm Oa                  ..        3LO         "S.o                561.5                     63.9
WMAUMM,UM             CtM )       3111.0      6159.0      6290..
VM umuof        (Swm a w             17.2       50.1          6.               35.0                       19.0
wMUN  U WA  200O Ca1                                       U1.0
0OP0u =0in 1i cow                                    33.0
VlA N                                                      2.0                  .
13n. 0..                            1.2         L.          6.3               63.1                      37.6
Ml _S  Uk Nh. A                    7.9        10.4        15.1               121.4                     470.1
0-11 us                          15.0        46.1        U.3                 43.1                      43.5
1541  Us                          52.5        51.3        49.3                51.3                      33.0
ISIUDASE                            .4         2.5         2.3                 2.7                       3.3
aouM  ms am t
STO                                 2.5         2.          31                 2.9                      LA
MUM                                9.1         *.          6.2                 *.1                       4.4
KmRU   muE (Nu  10003            49.6        49.0        30.0                47.0                      40.
=lull     Mm (m  TM)                n2.4        16.7        1.0                 15.0                      11.3
mIlinU        bI33    _ am            3.2        3.3         3.3                 3.2                       2.L
_am w . Os MB. m  m
(1969-7b1.200                       99.0        96.0        95.0                62.9                      33.1
m Cm
"aGwtzLe                            nAo ao                  *.                  R9b
canuin (ISV fr    U h)            100.0       9.0         KA1.0               9.5                     U11.2
1Us          _ CUI  Em    )       GSA         60          56.0                3.4                       7?.6
or  IUM anu.  3 901m             14.0        16.0        1.IC                16.3                      17.6
mu   (MR  I-) SW  ua               31.6        5.2         19.0               1I.4                       12.1
LIV  MUM. At KM  CUM)               41.7        463         30.5               0SLO                       57.3
llir o. an (.3W=.)                 l51.S       123.0       100.0               106.9                      96.0
AiM% 20 SM lAW (DOI)
..                                            37.0        6 j42.4                                      67.2
URBA.                                         70.0         67.0A      T        7.5                      33.4
Ram                                 ..         22.0      "6.4                 35.8                      45.8
TM                                  ..         W          40.0                2.9                       15.9
UI                                  .-         12.0       40.0 o37.7                                     3.0
N                                   ..         1.0        40.0A               2.7                       26.
109   El m  iSo3U                92 304     6140.0      7670.0 J          11791.7                    131.0
PM. El VMW.O SM                   320.0 L.  262L0         1220.0 Jje          2,39.6                    1645.0
PM. E  110h?F .m
TUE                              360.0       M00.        210.0 A            991.1                     621.6
ION                              160.0e        ..        36                  36.8                      33.0
KUE.                             470.0                   24                 4371.9                    2311.3
U_5tI    e   W !L.                    ..         ..         31.0                27.2                      25.7
TOTE                                .           4.4
som                                  .           .n. ..                     ..
RuE                                 ..         .....                                  
&umam  30. o  FIXONMISO
TOE                                 ..          2.6         ..                 .. -                      .
TML                                 .
RUE~ .                     ..         .... .
31o  9 Elu.a Wm m=r.
T .                                 ..         .....
mEN                       2.S          .....                                 
RUE~ .                     ..          . .*...



-38-                                            ANNEX I
PaRe 2 of 6
uaeaU                 - SOCIAL IEDOrCATORS DATA  I
wintm IOOTS (SlRtTD AVERAGES) 
NOIS                     (No(   RM r ISTIArTE) Ib
i,@L?.T          NICOLE 110C5           NIDOLS Ir
19OLlb    lip7db *STIIATIt?       AMCA S. OF SAdARA   P. AFUCA A MID CS
ADJUStw CIlNOUNT RATIOS
PRIA.   rotTA                    42.0        89.0       19.0 A             95.7                     69.8
NAtE                   51.0       99.0       102.0 7d           100.0                    103.7
FIDALC                 34.0       79.0        90.0              83.2                      75.2
ScoNAtT: ToTAL                   2z0         13.0        17.0 /d           17.3                     *2.3
NU.                     3.0        17.0       22.0               25.0                     50.9
rEtAL                   1.0        8.0        12.0 id           14.0                      34.6
vocAToNAL CZ oF SECONOD)           27.8         3.2         2.3 /d            5.9                     10.0
PUPIL-TLAOR  RATIO
MIDI                              50.0       47.0        46.0 /d           41.1                     29.7
SIWIDART                          14.0       22.0        22.0 w            25.5                     18.8
_-
PASSUNM  CASS/TROUSAD FOP          10.4        14.5       1B.7 l             20.8                     17.8
RADIO  CIYUS/U0OUISAD  OP           4  f.      18.0       26.5              107.8                    175.9
TV REcxrRISItrOSAKD POI              ..         4.1        12.4              20.8                     51.2
fuPAP  ("UALY CGOR
INeRISlT") CIRaIA tON
FZn TSnauM  POFULtASO              5.1        13.7        18.7              18.4                     37.2
CtHU   A18M. A5SuDANCZ/CAFrIA       ..          ..OJA                         0.4                      2.4
trrAL AOR  maPCZ (CNOoS)          1293.0     1621.0     2168.0
7Phz  CiaUcEiI)                  33.3        32.6       33.0               3t.2                     il.o
ACwsLrEt (PcLC T)                79.0        73.0       67.0 /d            54.5                     42.4
IDhSThIT (PORCsIT)                7.0         9.0       11.0 4             133                      27.9
PARTICmn    RATEZ CFRIfNT)
TOTAL                             41.2       39.0        34.6              36.8                     26.2
MALI                             55.3        52.9       47.5               47.1                     46.2
FER AE                           27.3        25.2        22.6              27.2                      5.8
cozwOumc DMCTADBWF WWZO-            1.2         1.2        1.5                1.3                      1.8
- -
P TRC    OF fIWAS INCOM
ocawr s5 air guuouas             33.7        23.0         .
Hszin 203 or OeUSUOLDS           58.2        6347       58.7 A
LOOS? 203 or toDstiniS            5.4         3.871      3.8.
LERST Afor 0o SO                 13.0        10.11      1.1.A
mn - -
LEVEL CUS ER     CPIA
tSTD         AU60U15S PO0   DINCK
-|-tC (95S P CtXW
URIS                              ..          ..        247.0             590.7                    22b.3
URAL                                                    168.0k            275.3                    134.0
£srmnnM REATi  Penn  tcu
LtVE (U58 PE CtTA)
URM                               ..          ..        126.0             545.6                    431.5
EZRA!.                            ..          *.        85.0  .           201.1                    32e.0
tS SM   Pce. stl  ABSOLT
FOVU NT iCom LIVE. CZ)
UUUS                              ..          ..        2U.0,                .                       .
WRIt                              ..          *.         ..                 ..                      29.0
Mr AP?LICAE.E
M0 TES
.a   Th grop curep  for each lnflcator are populatlalgtud aulthetle mans.  Cver. f  er
SNOW the lndaestoru depnda on aval blty of data 1a  is not mteforu.
lb    learo othamia noteed  "Dsta for 1960" refer to  y year hamene  1359 and 1961; "Data for 19701 human
1989a   1971; and dta for "tut Recat atls_te" humwn 1981 ad 1983.
s   1977; /d 1380; t 1979; _f 1963;  A 1978; Ab 19781 L 1982; .J 1973.
JUNL. 1985



-39                                        ANNEXI
_                                  ~~~~~~~PaRe 3 of 6-
bai  ii. m  tis jib..urib of   munbgc  inm         J.rW b  d bu nm uin  0et s oO u.mm   omd     O
COO 1d __W dl_h  WA ,_ 
ARMabual mdu1 s      Siimkmb  ia)n   pam                             AaIl&t    ib #whme   w-mbeo ivem  '    in u On euym
aTdz&baobI nam comprbib.bb h    ~tuumambsing biD   madilWwtx prdaimu  fmid-ympmhaimadom; lUi 97. bW             19ummdu.
Tabi-oml srfac  -o copuimdn landea and iopnlad   otrs    per thousd of mid-yin popuhtomu  1960.1970. and 1963 data.
emaelyfor aopi pagtr. market and kuhen pardm or to      Gm                k -AmWa  nmer of daughtes a w        aeu
lie ra.w190 1970 and IM6 daue.                                wilh        Iw h oranmal upenduwi period if do  zpi.
GNP PME CAPrrA (UiSI)-G          per apt  itmtm a tmcsrrent  in 1960,970 mad 1963.
madket pen.. calcultsd by same coavemon method as WbFU                        A               ~ (     )     ala   .
Boat ArIa (196143 !ui)1963 dAta.d*a                                                I     add          do-oWsm
KXJUGY CGGSVWPION PMR CAbA-odayppra                                 pbf pmuau
conumpzion or commnerdal piay emer  (coalad                   AMignite.  1v P U'5  r         Vammu    j- hepe
petoleum. natural aSu and hydro-. nucea and geotmmerl dec-    tap o amareim ati m     ordhid-bd.1& agp who are pmtgor
tricty) in kdlogrms of oil equivalent per capiuza 1960. IM70 and  whame usbands ass    prcid  my form  fcouetrcepion..oe
1982 data.                                                   of child-beriaemsarsegeneenlly  oen-  apdis5.49.altoghror
some countries contracetv  MP is meaured for othor BP
POPULATIONV AND VITAL SrATWSFIC                               group.
Tod Fig .h ku MU-Tmw (uh.uom) ---As of July 1. 1960.1970.    FOOD AND NIRO
ad 1913 date..
(fib h,upmk       (pwem   of ian.g-Ratio of urban to total    AWKf^                                   INIdPFdpMjO4- )-lniesof`ws
mpia aemiel peodustm of al fand qapsoedkiti. ftodumi
popuhtaoecdifferent deluntions ofurban area may affect camper-    iealdade anima feed and mmd for agricvWts Food coimmodis.
ability of data, among couatuims 1960. 1970. and 1963 data.   inhd.bpns , w,      o"    (e.g supc m        d  of samps
AlI I   Pi kas                                                which anreudible and contain nutrint (e.g. coffe and ien ans
Ppubrise  yew w20-TIM peimetb of popultio  for 2io           exduded  they compriss cmds. rnt amp, gib. aid meds.
made for each economy separately. Startin with informaton on  vegetbles hits nuts.apua   n sugarcn    w bumu livesoc, and
toa popujatio by ae and sex fissilty ratm mortalty raes, and  livesock products. Aggregae producio ofreach counay is based
imntentonal migrationi the bary r 1960. them  parammsmr       on naional averap producer p.m wdahts 1961-ES. i970. and
wan  projcted at five-yea int-val on the basis of puealimd    1IM data.
auumptioes until the populatioabceme statonar.-qe~up'm jc.n
Siakuari y populixtire-ls amin whbich agp and sem-pai mor-    ad from celd equivalen of net fodsupplie avallbkalein munty
utay rate have not changed oveta lon peniod, whil age-sepcil5c  per copota *  day. Avilbe uple compris doumuc produc.
fertility rate have smuluataouly remained at replacemen level d zion.  mpo   km eports anid hagmin stoc. Net supplies
(ce reproductio raze - 1). In such a populaton the birth ram is  exclude animal feed. snds for uwein agricbultr quanutite used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is als  food peooinda  and losses in distrbution. Requirement wmes
constant, and the growth rate is wo. The stmatioay populmaio  esdtimsd by FAO basd on physiologialneds for normal activit
sue was estimated on the basis of the projete charaducteris  of  and health consdering environmental tenerature body weights
thepopltionintheyer2       andtheraeofdeci  offertity         ged se dtbt  of popuaton dalowin 10pectf
ra  to relaeme  leel                                         waste at houhod level; 1961. 1970 and 192 data.
P,pwdimu Momeaam;*-l the tendenc for populati  growth to      f        S*l.u    gmumlPoencneto
cont6nue beyond the din that repincement-level fettalit has he   percuisa p yorfood parday. Net supplyoffood isdind.
adhieved that is. even after the net reproduction rat hasRce  as above. Requirements for all coiu- miablimed by USDA
unity. Mhe momentum  ifa populatio in th yer tpi meszud b,    proviefor- mime. .b         of`60Sgrmsorsotalprteinper
a ratio or te 1um     .ai y p lt   to the popubi oni          day and 20 warn anima d pid  pmei. ofwhic 10 gramse
the year r. given fth asmmptm ia th?rtility remains at reparn  sould. he anmal protin 7be atandzs.bare lovaerdhn thoe of
cn eve from year t onwad. 1985 data.                          75 puma of tDa prti and 23 gS  or animal prot  as an
papwwdm DOMoky                                        ampn  do teod. propoe by FAO in dt  Thid World Foo
Aw a0m.-Mid-year population per squas kilomet  (100 bin-      SPr 16. 1970 and 1912 dat. a.
tam) or total ar  190. 1974. and 1983 data.                   PwCa h         _sk S   vru  AmWinEhh -Protein supply
Per sqiaw. ckset>wa Lud-Computod a aboe 'or agual             offood   ve fhom a    lan nd p singramsperda  196145.
ladrony. 1960. 1970. and 1912 data.                           1970 and 1977 duam
PApdmd.. Are LMalrre  (pircuO-.Chidrven (0-14 year). work-    CUW(qr-4w ) DeerhA.(pwr Emd)--Numhe ofddeahsof
ingsagO(1.65year)s). andretre (65 years and over) as pmmp     childen agpd 1-4 year per xhousad childen in the sLme age
of mi&y-ar popuato  1960.1970. an  19  data.                  gop is a iven Yar For mot deveoping contr  dam deived
pu       Gwrh A.. (pvcwar-t         umuai growth Cato of     frm life tble  1960. 1970 and 1963 dat.
totl mid-year pop"   inor 195040. 90-70, and 197043.          HLALM
_ Gemr Awe   cm)  wm                     %Aual gowth ran     LVR Eqrermep a     fu     nm)-Number of years a netborn
of urban populAtion for 195040.196070. an  1970433 data,      infant would live if prevaiing pazum or motality ror all people



ANNEX  I
-40-                                     Page 4 of 6
et tlm statf ur blt   -   tolmy dh  -le od*ollh InIlk         A ,mf *          . -puwy. ad ac.iy-Toal studet -.
0110 mad 1U daa                                              rled In pbmury mI =JM           Wla div        by mauqr of
w  mg  A   ( amj-            lum ber fktm  wmo die             I do t   mpedl  toul.
yr. 1317 I         1               0 da                      COIuWflm
A i to S W    (pm    of           *                               C     Fu _pje_ cm  .a.Pse n can cao
wd-Nimn~ ofpilw (1._ Pmr  Md  wmm            h    UIi nmbI   pij now cm   ing  ee tha eioght perso   adm iambi-
mrntom   w          pply   t     _W   aNd  In      weim  or  mon, hs ivesi MA litay vehW .
unmtedbi  miatie  _ee u5t U t hai Dl_rn P'|P                 am_  RSIFS p  I            peum      -AUl types of rles..
bo hlm erip ndmuaywie) pmuinof1k tmp.                gf, jdabnW    to wnera pbUWc per thousad of popcn.m
de            In a urbr   a a poUr femiu  or usdpm           grAj   m             rivsm   in cwtrms and In yas w_-
wi.s -  r           barn a home inep be OiiIiaii     regisaratian of fdIo am w1  in 88 c d_ fr zicsnt  a    y
- beins within ISabsoum at dthe  ham. In fiiawd       U      - mm  ouatmp.rb.sasmtctatmaoahdInig
hosidho de ismt hav to ogmd a dimupeutl.si PKs of1  day       TVRd''a (P        i-TVN           TVrnoa    rbroodut
1biing&f  h ,w fts5)j ngj  i -                               to puei ubi per thbuin  poulton  clodd unlicmed TV
Acm    juwe. Dhqpud (per   *~p~ijm)-E~4   dcei-Elin ca        ul.mdi.peers he ragistraiom of TVuow wune
m_ mmu-Nombe of peo   (at w , M  .1)                 byd    t n di e. *           *
urnS dmpommi e pusemumm of dhidr repedws populmmo.           PhW-                (   i    m    ja      w  =        a-
Elaraw  depol my imds t  colldum end dpmsL with c:           agp dmu       i or"d*  p_e i2tKu   _WqW"  dI  u a
without t_md 1 or hms. eces amd we.w          r by wa.r-     pilde pubimdlA, ad primarily to rawrdig ems! awe
bom _       or tde mm or pit piim  nd dsimlr    aidsuoeu.    Ito  edd to ho admilyw if t eppeu at et fou uim a Wi.
_ I _ P*pMm-ftpulmtiam divd  by number or pius-              CFAm Aa                 rmqp Cepa p   Yah-emd  n the
timing phycidsmqulilebonesmdicalachool tuniversity level     nmbr of tidck   m   duing te y. incudin  admmo  to
d   pw Nwd   Anz       p-'"  dividmd by number    d       v i cion d mab  unittL
pract    nude nd n    _b awse nUd nn ngar
plk u_ NW bs a_ai.                                           L42 FORMC
I   pwMm  p,d A       wu. on m i-rw   pvladon      Tad Lbw eibonacti  pam    a-
(tooL wug    and rul divided by ter rpet ive _ nuer of         udin aimed frm  and unemployed bu excluing houue h
hospal bedb ava       i publIcaC:  private, womm and WpiCIM11md  t  ot cu.. coSEdI  popult   of ad   sa    De ftiui  ia
hosptaL  md rdabilimm omi. Hopib an uawbdnm                  venous ori ui na     t am umpmb  1960, 1970 and 1983 'Jata.
p  ee dy       d by mblat ok e piyymn Estbishments pPrO      FM    (peIS            labor force m pu ee of twA lr
---g penipely couodlal -  m  m  iniudet. Rra hosti.          MM= -
hou ,imwe kbemithadnmicaonnot pw_yeei            smffsd      Ap*_  (porin)-Lmbor form in rumng foy. buning
by a physicin (but by a medicl  iumn  wu. midwife. s.)       ad lin as,p           of tot lbbor f;m  1960. 1970 mad 19
wi' offe in-pedai aelo dtiodn  sd povde a limited maus       data.
of medicsl facilitieLs                                       Iad        (prwooj-Labor force in mining constucto  menu-
AJ         per  RdW  Bd-Total n_wnor at diion to or          fctringl dsltuicity. wat sod poa psnmtarot_ lor
--isc-hrg  ffro  boWitas divided by the number of bedr.      force; 190 1970 ad 190 dat
-'    I          {Amp)or-wisi o" Prdpicn
HOUSING                                                      oracdv*uyrwecopuo.du utaln ba ardeborfom
Abi    Su gf 0_o  (pwsm   lAuwIQ-OMA  rv,                    e P        e of taL mol ad I_   population of an a
miu.d-A hobaden  m  ofagrorpo9individoemwhoshere             resctvely 196   I     nd 1963 da  The  mu b_  on 11.0
ivi  qunns and their mam mae.. A board  or lodW  m  or       pecpsinra.sludtgsc of t  popula. and
may not be icude id do he utbold for itatms purposes.        log time m1d. A f1W umata ue fiten maiosal mourL
-begs           flwir   pm Bear-Wd gram; and we- Ereelk -     & ioDep.wmp Ale-tat, of population under 15, and
Aveap nmmber oron per ream in all urtb. nd rral.   65 and overto the working age population (toe a_d 1564).
ouped conventona duw_lg  rspectvely. Dwe1ip auludc
non-permanent structure ad unoccupid pwts                    INCOM  DISTRMITUION
PA..M*  of DWEeg  M   Akelokp-uel, ube.  d E   _d-           humeq -o Twtal Dbqmi&  lerw (lok * csbsai Aid)--
Convetona dwullinp with elcticity in lving quwtem as per-   Accring to perentile groups of households ranked by tote' oue
upg of totaL. ub    and rua dweip r_upictiy.                 bold icme
DUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
AEud Ew emW    Rb.                                           The follow    dntma  are very approximate man . of povety
- *_wy  FoIA   -    -.u onfmb-4rM t     m             d       leve  andehuM be interpred with conaideme caution.
r_le eofm*m 1 ofal ea at th prnny Ind - pernnp of            _sUd Aka Jim 0y hmsm Lawd (U_,p  Iapi-ber
rpocv prim  ecoa-ap popuadou  Whl may counuime                  nril-Abolute poverty incom  level is hat income levei
coneder prmay school apto be 6-11 yua otbeg do nor  The      beow which a minimautridondly adequate diet plus essetial
dulferencea in conty pra-  in the ba  and durto of school    non-food requrme  is not affordable
we refee ik the rd pt n. For ame cosmue with unival E           Ad uIes P.erry bca -- Lad (fJMlp  cqkJe-w6
-duton pm  wromnt may  esd 100 pamm sin e e               _         nowP-Runa rdative povery income levd i onethird of
pupi, uc bdeow or abovd temntxys  ad primry-choel            avea  per cai personal inome or the country. Urba kvel I
age.                                                         deived from th rual evel with adjustment for higher cost of
Secaedw  sdod - tota. mid  fo,vk-Compuzed as ah               ivmng in urban ares.
odyeducation req   at leat our y     of approved pri-        Eidwad PbpIlwem 5.e A&mlm fowery acs Lard (par-
Ma7neurtion; provide gel vationl or teacher tama             c -,sr&=   meal- Pret of population (urban ad rural
a     _tua  for pupil uafy or 12 to 17 yer ofra  comespood,  wbo ar 'absolute poor.
cw cour  am geeraly ecluded.
Vocar nd DmrsPr (Porcam faemWY)-Vccbonw in1tal-                                    Ans and Data Diviion
tons induded cL  indltldu   or ohr pro amwhicb opera                 Economic Analysi and Projectons Deprtment
indedly ora departmts of mondwry iatutioe                                            June 198S



- 41 -                                  ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
ZIA* Ei[C  DIICAI1
Ebp;la'Ln        6.225 mLUn(odk9E13)
QNP per Capita:  MSM8  ( 193)
NThML Am
1984
ZS        Percet                   Aruml Gt Rate  (2)
ledAcatr          MilUI.      of (P       1975-6      19B1      1982      1983    1964
GD, Factor Cost             2157        84        -0.7       2.7      -2.1     -6.0      -2.0
G(P, Halet PrL              2558       100        -1.1       6.2      -2.8     -2.0    -1.3
krAltutu                   377        15         0.5       82      -11.7       8.4     9.7
ri'uz                      359        14        -3.0       4.7       0.0       3.0   -40
Othr  Idsttyl              646        25        -0.2       5.1      -0.9      '5.1    -1.3
Servii                    1176       46          0.4       6.5      -1.6     -4.3    -3.5
Cixuupcinxi                 2193        86         0.0       9.3      -6.8      4.4    -1.5
Cras Tves~tt                 359        14       -16.9    -11.1    -23.5    -24.2    -42
ors  i   ods & NES           908        35        -3.5    -128        15.7     -9.7    -60
Taporcs of CGcds & *5        902        35        -69    -16.0    -22.0    -15.6   -15
Gross  xestic Savitgs        365        14         0.0    -4L2       -26.6      83.9     6.3
(DVmIENr FM=                   GeIna Gmernment2           Cental Goverztt (1964)
(K MIn.)      Z of           ( K Nin.)       Z of GC!
Qirrent lleasprs                                             1,170           24.7
Qmsnt E      Iituces                                         1,241           26.2
Qarent Sraplus                                                 -71          -1.5
Capital  qwiptums                                              275           5.8
Exernal Finan1g                                                 60            1.3
,EY, CREDIr and PRIES                    1975   1980   1981    1962    1963   1984
____     (Mai         i   kPeriod)
Dm" and Qiasli )ney                       493    907    979   1309   1444   1703
Bak Ctedit to  me nt                     318   1355   1495   1983    3)9)   2287
Ble* Credit to Private Sector3           393    505    765    905   1033   1)2
(F kramtae of Indc 3     rs)
N. aid Qasi ibwey as   oMP               31.3   30.1   28.4   36.7   34.2   36.0
Wholesale Price        (1966=.00)4      188.6  424.2  475.9  542.8  663.7  832.0
Amual percetage clue   In:
QIlesale Price radme                   16.6   11.1   12.2   14.1   22.2   25.4
Bm  Crdt to Govxnm                   406.9   2D.8   10.3   32.7    5.8    9.0
ack Credit to Private Sector3          17.0    4.6   51.4    18.3   14.1   16.4
1 Ihmfuf   rag, aetuction, electridty, gs and water.
2 Flgui  do not dLffer slgnlficatly Er. -tral Qoe=ent.-
3 Twci   peratatal orgizatia                                                        EIS
4 All dnticany used goods.                                                          Jim  1985



- 42 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
ZANDA
MM  PA =  AND CPfl  FLOW
BAAUM  OF PAWISM                                               MERC xM     E-OR  19r
1981   1982   1983   1984
OM'1ICu US$)                                   ISS KIn   2
hports of 1}:ds, NES          1,129   1,067   1,aO5    908    qaper                    685      83
lipots of C,oob, NES          1,633   1,410   1 043    902    Cobalt                    55       7
_wrm  Gup (deficdt  -)         -504   -343               6 sl  ad Zinc                  45       5
Al otbur                 39       5
Factor Sewics (rut)a           -218   -235   -188   -174         Total w
Not Truufeu                    -158    -72     -0      -50
Bale  an CGurtt Armt           -               2650   -276   -218
EIL  M. Dec. 31, 1964
(ffida  Geants                   26      30      42     50
Diect Foveip INem                ..    ..      we      ..                  ..                US Mn.
L40t MET  Borm*g                220    258    128    134        dAbic Dcbt, mc. gaited   2,817
_gSbJUItS                    407   35       T76    155                    Priva  Debt ..
a                187      92      48      21    lbtal  0zstad    & Disbssd  2,8}
Not IW                          367    -57      64      75
Cuindal PaYDts Arm s             53    240    -50       25
Ot I    (nei.)                  176    267      67    -71    ME 9V(  RATI FM 1984
awe   tn  seres                  38    -8       25       5                                    z
t-- Icrease)
cjk De.bt, ti. g _ateed  7.4 b
1O'IR -MS Item                                                  ixt-QiaranrAeed Private Debt   be
Total QItStaidIIg & D7sbwed 7.4 b
Growsintl. 1Auecm                52    140    115    110
(Meeks of lOit)                (L.7)  (5.2)  (5.7)  (6.3)
Oamit A/C Bil. as 2 GDP       -21.9  -16.7   48.2   -8.2    Th/MR WMW , %krdi 31, 1985
eiLilicm MNS)
RMS OF EWIE                                                                    -        IBD    ML
(jatstudfr & Dlsbrsced 337.92  43.03
1981     1$51.00  -         0.8684                            IWIsbasd                 108L23  139.52
1982                        0.9282                             Outstaling iLid.
1983                         1.2506                             IUdsbursed             446.15  182.55
L984                         1.7943
a 8E uds artrs an inteft t ad awrtfatin rsm  Ia   m1xts  msch,3d.
b Act3ml debt welam paid antl  bic and PubLeaiy Qlzaxteed debt, ewdudirg artears and W
.pm yto. Sd cds    debt sertw   due m MGP debt rm equivalent to 46.1 tperwt of emorts of goods
ad rox-fwtor servAms.
..not available                                                                       June 1985



- 43 -                               ANNEX It
Pag L of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BAWK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 1985)
Amount in US$ Million
(Loss Cancellations)
Loan   Credir                                                                   Undisbursed
No.   No.       Year   Borrower          Purpose                 Bank    IDA   Loon Credit
20 Loans fully
disbursed                               432.06
1424            1977   Zambia            Industrial Forestry    16.80             0.08
1566    798     1978   Zambia            Third Highway           11.25   11.25  11.25   5.29
863     1979   Zambia            Coffee Production                6.00           0.45
873     1979   Zambia            Technical Assistance             5.00           1.84
1790    973     1980   Zambia            Third Railway           25.00   15.00   7.35   1.84
1923            1981   Development       Second Development
BSank of Zambia   Finance Company        15.00            0.59
2001            1981   Zambia            Eastern Province
Agric. Development      11.00            7.99
1193     1982   Zambia            Southern Province
Agric. Development              18.00          15.19
1196     1982   Zambia            Smallholder Dairy Dev.           7.50           6.74
1251     1982   Zambia            Fifth Education                 25.00          18.01
2151            1982   Zambia Indus-
trial a Mining
Company          Oil Refinery Mod. Eng.  5.10             4.25
2152            1982   Zambia            Pet. Exploration Prom.  S.60             2.90
1333     1983   Zambia       _    aamba Coal Eng.                  4.30           3.14
1362     1983   Zambia            Rural Water Supply              10.00           9.24
SF2      1983   Zambia            Rural Water Supply               6.00           4.37
1437     1984   Zambia            Ind. Forestry-PhasetIl          22.40          21.48
2391            1984   Zambia            Export Rehab. & Diver. 75.00            73.82
1985   Zambia           Fisheries                         7.10          7.10
1985   Zambia           Agricultural Rehab.              25.00         25.00
1985   Zambia           Fourth Railways                  20.00         20.00
Total                                           597.81  182.55 108.23 139.52
of which has been repaid                       [51.66     -
Total now outstanding                           466.15  182.55
Amounts sold                       28.58
of which has been repaid          28.58           -       -
Total now held by Bank/IDA                      446.15  182.55
of vhich is undisbursed                        108.23  139.52
__ 
NOTES: The status of the projects listed In Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
1/ Credits denominated in SDRs (Credit 1193-ZA and above) are shown In US Dollar equivalents,
based on the exchange rate in effect at the time of negotiations.



- 44 -
ANNEX 11
'Paso 2 of t
B. STATE£M 0? irc INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, LO84)
Investment                                                      USS Mtillion Equivalent
No.      Year                       Type of Bustnesm        Loan Equity   Total
216-ZA     1972   Zmbia Bata Shoe
Company Limilted    Shoe Manufacturtng      0.85   0.23    1.08
250-ZA     1973   Zambit Bata Shoe   Shoe Manufacturing
Company Limited    and Tannery              1.20    -      1.20
307-ZA     1975   Century Packages
Limited             Packagtng Haterials    0.78   0.21    0.99
324-ZA     1976   Development Bank   Developmeat Pinance
of Zambia          Company                   -     0.54    0.54
394-ZA     1978   Century Packages
Limited            Packaging Materials    0.10    -        O.L0
483-ZA     1979   Zambia Consoli-    Copper and Cobalt
dated Copper Mines Production              28.00    -     28.00
527-ZA     198C   Iafue Textiles of
Z6mbia Limited     Textiles & Pt1ers        7.60    -      7.60
600-ZA     1981   Zambia Consoli-    Copper Production-
dated Copper Mines                         27.03    -     27.03
709-ZA     1984   Zambia Hotel
Properties Ltd.    Tourism                 17.25   -      17.25
Total gross commitments                    82.81   0.98   83.79
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                   29.60   0.81   30.41
Total now held by IFC                      53.21   0.17   53.38
- ~
Total undisbursed                          34.82     -    34.82
NOTES: Investuent No. 743-ZA for USS2.1 million equivalent in Rpongwe Development
Company Limited approved on June 12. 1984 vas signed on October 8, 1984.



- 45 -
ANNEX III
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL REORIENTATION CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY CREDIT DATA SHEET
T.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification                            July 1983
(b)  Project Preparation                      June 1984
(c)  Appraisal Mission                         November 1984
(d)  Post-Appraisal Mission                   February 1985
(e)  Negotiations                              July 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness             September 1985
II.  Actions to be Taken Before Credit Effectiveness
(a) Initiate the operations of the foreign exchange auction system
(para 53);
(b) Conversion of the present system of import licensing to one of
import registration (para. 56);
cc) elimination of import prohibitions (para. 56); and
(d) reduce maximum tariff rates from 150 to 100 percent (para. 58).
III. Actions to be Taken Before the Release of the Second Tranche
Make satisfactory progress in the implementation of the industrial
policies described in the Government's statement of industrial and
trade policies (Annex V), (para. 82), including:
(a) Decontrol interest rates (para. 61);
(b) Agree on the amount and composition of INDECO's investment
program for 1986/87 (para. 62);
(c) Enact new Investment Act (para. 60);
(d) Establish minimum 10 percent tariff on remaining duty free items
(para. 58); and
(e) Implement program of actiou to improve foreign exchange
forecasting and budgeting (pars. 55).
IV. Special Feature
Government statement of industrial and trade policies.



- 46 -
TIz6trha1 I m d        M  a  A deaility Cmd1t
1311 MabZmt Sdwle'
inzla±vse US allUim                               Z
Xbr Ibtedals  1T1ui1ml             hr Ibtedals  Tad1ea1
MAPr                        & e     w    M.atwme  T2bbl!   Pf  Ainlstin    Thea
1996   tmmer31,1993                          0.2       3L2          53.5          9.1     51.9
Aril 30, 196              48          0.4       484          80.3         18.2      78.2
Jme 3, 1916               59.8        0.8       60:6        100.0         36.4      97.7
1987   9ytr 30 1986             59.8         0.9       60.7        100.0         40.9     97.9
Dwmbe 31, 19              59.8        1.0       60.8         IOD.0        45.5      98.1
til 30. 19                59.8        1.2       61.0         1D0.0        54.6      98L4
Jam 3D, 1987              59.8        1.4       61.2        100.0         63.6      98.7
1998   Sptaber 30, 1987         59.8         1.6       61.4        100.0         72.7     99.0
ler  31, 197              59.8        1.8       61.6         10D.0        81.8      99.4
Aprl 30, 1998             59.8        L9        61.7          .0          86.4      99.5
Jm  3D, 198               59.8        2.0       61.8         100.0        90.9      99.7
9I or   31, 1998               59.8         2.2       62.0        100.0        1X0       100.0



b~~~~~~~~~# I: ;- %if I8~     M. ruhlb ILt
FUN1Ry OCF WNARE
-47 -                                 LUSAKA
ANNM V
June 13, 1985                                                Page 1 of 10
Mr. Ideard V. K. Jaycox
Vice-President
Eastern and Soutbarn Africa Region
World Bank
WasJton D.C.
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Jaycox:
lutroduction
1.        It bas noV been two years since my Government sent to the Bank
the Mmoradum of Development Objectives and Policies, dated January 13,
1983, which contained a statement of my Government's objectives and our
Intentiona as regards policy reforms. The progress made In loplementing
the now policies and programs during the -first year followvig this
statement, was sumarized In a more recent letter dated February 1, 1984,
sent by me to the Bank. In that letter we also indicated the speclflc
actions we planned to take to advance further the policy reforms enumerated
in the Memorandum. The purpose of this letter Is to Inform you of
additional progress that has been made on the policy front over the past
year particularly in the industrial and trad policy areas, and to indicate
to you the spcific actions we plan to take in the comlng months to support
the proposed Industrial Be-orientation Project.
2.        Considerable progress has been made (since early 1983) In
carrying out the macro economic and sector reforms specified in the
Mememorandum and the letter, and we continue to believe that we are moving
towards a policy framework essential to bring about the desired structural
changes in the Zambian economy.
3.        Clearly, such remains to be done in various policy areas.  Since
ye recognize that the long-term prospects for copper are llimted, we expect
that future economic growth will have to depend more heavily upon
agriculture and a more efficient lndustrial sector.
4.        In the industrial sector we have adopted, and are planning to
adopt In 1985 a large number of policy actions. We see the proposed
Industrial Re-orientation Project as an essential element In our strategy
for decreasing Zambia's reliance upon the copper sector and launching a
program to re-orient sanufacturing activity to Improve the efficlency of
existing operations and the economic contribution of ne lnvestments.
5.        During most of the two decades since Independence, the policy to
pronote the development of manufacturing industry in Zambia was based on
industrial and trade policy measures which emphasized import substitution
and admlnistrative cortrols, mad relied on public sector investments to
promote Industrial development. Initially this pollcy led to rapid
industrial growth and to the development of a relatively large and well
diversified manufacturing sector. At present, however, the sector Is
experiencing low capacity utilization, declining labour productivity,



-48 -                           ANNEX V
Page 2 of 10
increasing capital intensity and high dependence upon imports in a period
of foreign exchange scarcity.
Recent Policy Changes
6.        To set the stage for resuming efficient growth, a number of
problems and policy issues needed to be addressed. The correctfve policies
which started as early as 1980 met with limited success. In late 1982,
however, we agreed with the Bank Group and the IMF on a new program to
bring about better economic management and a more appropriate pollcy
environment. Agreement was reached with the IMF on a one-year standby
arrangement starting in April, 1983, and with the Paris Club to reschedule
the 1983 debt. As a part of the IMF program, the Kwacha was devalued by
20% in January, 1953 and a flexible exchange rate policy was established in
July 1983.
7.        The Memorandum of Development Objectives and Policies mentioned
above was sent to the Bank in conjunction with the Export Diversificaton
Project and it formed a part of the policy dialogue between the Government
and the Bank which focussed on the structural elements of our
diversification program. The progress made in implementing the new
policies and programs, which was summarized In the letter dated February 1,
1984, included a cumulative devaluation of the Kwacha of 62% in 1983
against the SDR, compared with inflation rates of roughly 20%, the
decontrol of prices in December, 1982, which led to the realignment of
producer and consumer prices and to a reduction of subsidies of about 80%
in 1983; cutbacks in Government expenditure, tax increases, and a 10% limit
on wage increases in the private sector, with no Increases in the public
sector; and higher customs duties on some capital goods introduced in the
1984 budget. The letter indicated that further progress in policy reforms
vould be made once the exchange rate and tariff policies were modified to
provide additional and more appropriate incentives to non-traditional
exports, and once generalized duties on intermediate goods were
introduced. Also, we mentioned that the tariff base would be shifted from
f.o.b. to c.i.f. in 1985 and that the Industrial Development Act of 1977
would be revised by December, 1985.
8.        During 1984 my Government continued to take actions consistent
with the development objectives specified in the Memorandum of Development
Objectives and Policies. These objectives included production and export
diversification, the reversal of past trends towards excessive consumption,
lessened dependence on imports in consumption and production, lower capital
intensity of production and greater economic efficiency all around. The
main policy actions taken during this past year are as follows:
(a) As noted earlier, we have made substantial progress in the
realignment of the exchange rate. From January 1983 to December
1984 the cumulative devaluation of the Kwacha has been 118%, which
amounts to about 50% in real terms. We are now following a policy
of depreciating the Kwacha at about 2.5% per month, a rate which
exceeds the domestic rate of inflation.



- 49 -                          ANNEX V
Page 3 of 10
(b)  During 1984 we continued the decontrol of retail and wholesale
prices which is now virtually complete. Malze meal and candles
remain the only exceptions.
(c)  We have managed to maintain in 1984 the levels of fiscal deficit
and of borrowing from the domestic banking system at the
significantly reduced levels which we achieved during 1983. The
fiscal deficit dropped from 21% of GDP in 1982 to 7Z in 1983, and
borrowing from the domestic banking system from 14X of GDP-to 2%.
(d)  We were also successful in our policy of limiting wage increases in
the public and parastatal sectors to 102 annually or less since the
beginning of 1983.
(e)  Interest rates have been raised significantly during 1984.  In May
the maximum lending rate went up from 12 to 15%, and in December
Interest rates were increased again by 2.5 percentage points. The
maximum lending and deposit rates are now 17.5 percent and 15.5
percent, respectively.
(f)  In addition to the above macroeconomic reforms, many important
reforms have been instituted at the sectoral level. The mining
lndustryhas been streamlined and made more efficient through a
merger of tiae two copper mining companies (which took place prior
to 1984). This has led to a consolidation of inventories and the
establishment of a s;rategic planning unit in the new company's
headquarters. Also, improved incentives for attracting high
quality expatriate personnel have been introduced; the company has
gained automatic access to foreign exchange to finance the imports
needed for mining operations; and a set of studies has been
initiated to raise labour productivity, to assess the economic
viability of new investments and to plan for the close of
uneconomic mines. These initiatives, which were supported by the
Mining Rehabilitation project, will help ensure the future
financial viability of the industry.
(g)  In agriculture, producer prices have been increased by over 30% in
real terms during the past four years, and the marginal tax rate on
agricultural income has been reduced to a flat rate of 15%.
Responsibility for the marketing of maize and fertilizer has been
given back to NAMBOARD, with the provincial cooperative unions
acting as agents of NAMBOARD. Also a major study is underway to
reorient agricultural research and extension services towards the
smallholder sector. Further reforms in the agricultural sector
have recently been agreed with the Bank in the context of the
Agricultural Rehabilitation project; these include the decontrol of
wheat prices and tractor hire charges, the escablishment of a
pricing methodology based on border prices which should lead
eventually to the termination of panteritorial pricing, the opening
up of maize marketing and fertilizer distribution to private
traders, and the initiation of studies on fertilizer usage and the
effic4ency of agricultural marketing agencies.



- 50 -                         ANNEX V
Page 4 of 10
(h) We have begun to implement policy reforms In the lndustrial
sector. In October 1984 we Introduced a LOX minimum duty on
intermediate and raw material Imports which should significantly
reduce the effective rate of protection on assembly-type industries
and provide a minimum rate of protectioD for domestic
resource-based industries. Also, the basis for levying import
duties has been changed from f.o.b. to c.i.f. This, together with
the new minimum tariff, should contribute to Increased Government
revenues while reducing somewhat the excess demand for foreign
exchange In the economy. Furthermore, we have introduced a foreign
exchange retention system for non-traditional exports and lowered
the tax rate on profits derived from such exports to the same
concessional rate of 15Z that applies to agriculture.
Industrial Strategy
9.        For the new development strategy to succeed, it is necessary that
the policy reforms be continued and, in some cases, accelerated.  The
Government is committed to this process and has requested further financial
assistance from the Bank and the Fund -- as well as from other external
donors - to be able to take the necessary measures, while mdnimizing the
short-term costs of the adjustment. This Is particularly important given
che continuing low copper price and high debt service payments that will be
posing serious constraints on Zambia's balance of payments for some years
ahead.           -
10.       In the manufacturing sector, a major reason for the recent
decline in industrial production is the shortage of imported inputs due to
the reduced availability of foreign exchange. This is particularly
Important for manufacturing because of the sector's high import intensity.
The foreign exchange allocated to the manufaturing sector for imports of
raw materials and spare parts was about USS240 million in 1983. Since then
the scarcity of foreign exchange has become more acute, resulting In
significantly lower levels of imported inputs and raw materials for
industry. The foreign exchange available to manufacturing for their import
needs during 1985 is not expected to exceed US$100 million. Therefore it
is evident that we need support from the Bank and oLher donors to improve
this situation.
11.       Notwithstanding the importance we attach to alleviatirg shortages
of imported inputs and to the need for additional foreign exchange, we
recognize that unless protective controls and restrictions are removed and
the policy framework changed, providing additional foreign exchange would
not encourage efficient industrial growth. The policy measures to be
s-tpported by the proposed project are designed to reform the import regime,
which provides high and variable protection to import substituting
activities, to remove disincentives to exports, to Improve the system of
allocation of foreign exchange, increase the efficiency of public
enterprises and improve the public investment program, and to eliminate
interest rate controls.



- 51 -                         ANNEX V
Page 5 of 10
Further Policy Changes In 1985
12.       We recognize also the need for further policy changes to
complement the galns already achieved toWards attainlng the objective of
industrial reorientation and diversification. As regards speciflc actions
that are being Implemented now and that we propose to take in coming
months, which have partlcular relevance for the Industrial sectcor, I would
like to mention the following:
1. Foreign Exchange Regime
(a)  Exchange Rate Realignment.  We regard a more competitive
exchange rate as the cornerstone of the proposed industrial
and trade policy reforms. In the context of our discusslons
with the IMF regarding the exchange rate regime, we have
decided to Introduce an auction system for the determination
of the exchange rate and the allocation of foreign exchange.
The auction may be preceded by a step devaluation.
We regard a satisfactory solution to the current foreign
exchange problems as the most important element of the policy
changes needed to reorient the industrial sector. A reform of
the foreign exchange regime will necessitate the Improvement of
the foreign exchange forecacting and budgeting process. As
announce-& in the Budget Address of January 25th, 1985, we will
improve the system of foreign exch-uige budgeting in the Bank of
Zambia. Accordingly, we Intend to Implement the following
additional measures:
(b)  Institutional Strengthenlag.  The Budget Section of the
External Finance Department at the Bank of Zambia which is
responsible for preparing the foreign exchange forecasts and
budgets will be strengthened by recruiting additional
qualified staff and specialized consultants.
(c)  Foreign Exchange Budget Reform.  The foreign exchange budget
should become an operational document and a basis for making
decisions on how to allocate foreign exchange. To
accomplish this changc the foreign exchange budget will
become a tool of economic policy decision making and will be
subject to review and approval at the ministerial level in
Government prior to the start of the period that the budget
covers. The budget will provide operational targets that
are realistic, with particular attention being paid to the
expenditure side; when a deficit is projected, the budget
will include specific recommendations on how to finance the
deficit.
The measures at 1(b) and (c) above are already in the
advanced stage of implementation.



- 52 -                          ANNEX V
Page 6 of 10
Cd)  Allocatiun of foreign exchange.  The shortage of foreign
exchange makes lt particularly imperative that Its
allocation be done efficiently. In Industry, as In other
sectors such allocation has not always been done in an
efficient manner, since the administrative mechanism and
the sytems of protection and controls have sometimes
resulted in resources being channelled to less productive
uses. The auction system to be introduced will enable us
to allocate foreign exchange to the efficient producers.
As a crucial complementary meeasure to the auction
mechanism, we will reform the import licensing system
through the following measures:
(i) eliminating the current system of import licensing
and replacing it by a simple registration system
as described below;
(ii) shortening the period of validity of licences and
making them non-renewable;
(iiI)  recalling all outstanding uncovered licences and
cancelling them;
(iv) reducing the licence fee from 5% to 2% of the
value of the licence, and making it
-    non-refundable;
2. Import Duties and Sales Tax Regime
As announced in the Budget Address of January 25, 1985, we
have adopted the following changes in the import duties and sales
tax regime in connection with the new budget:
(a) Removal of certain manufacturer's rebates under Section 89
of the Customs and Excise Act. This section exempts payment
of duties on imports of industrial iaputs by specific
subsectors.
(b) Introduction of duty on somae items where duty has
hithertofore not applied. Duty now applies to some goods
that were still free of duty after the Customs and Excise
Amendment Acts were approved in November 1984 and March
1985, and to goods that were previously exempted under
Tariff Code 100.10.00. The only exceptions wil be some
agricultural inputs, which will continue to be free of duty
temporarily.



-53 -                           ANNEX V
Page 7 of 10
(e) The existing rate of sales tax on Imports of 12.5Z will
be raised to 15%.
(d) As for local products and services which presently attract sales
tax (namely all final goods manufactured in Zambia in significant
amounts, except for some basic foods), we are increasing the tax
from 10% to 15Z on most of those goods and services where the
rate has not yet reached this level. A sales tax rate of 15%
will be charged on an expanded range of products and services by
December, 1987.                                            -
(e)  Sales Tax on Imports:  The new sales tax on imports at 15% has
been in effect as of April, 1985 on all dutiable goods.
In addition to the measures announced in the Budget address which have been
adopted, we intend to implement the following measures relating to import
duties and the sales tax regime:
(f) Removal of the remaining manufacturer's rebates under Section 89
of the Customs and Excise Act by December 1985.
(g,  Introduction of duty on those remaining Items where duty still
does not apply by April 1986, with the exception of agricultural
inputs, which will continue to be free of duty temporarily.
(h) When the-measures in (f) and (g) above have been instituted the
15% sales tax on imports will apply to all goods with the
temporary exception of agricultural inputs.
Ci) Tariff Commission: In order to prepare a comprehensive
review of the protection system and prepare changes in the
structure of tariffs and indirect taxes, a commission for
tariff and protection reform will be created by December 31,
1985 at the latest. The terms of reference of this
commission will be ready and agreed with the Bank during
negotiations. One of the main measures to be worked on and
implemented will be the lowering of high tariff rates.
All of the above changes aim to reduce the wide dispersion and the
high level of effective protection to the manufacturing sector and
encourage the efficient allocation of scarce resources to industry.
These measures will also reduce the fiscal deficit.
3.  Other Barriers to Imports.  We intend to implement the
following reforms:
(a)  Import licensing:  The existing system of import licensing
will be sir.plified at the time of introducing the auction
mechanism, and will be replaced with a registration system
(see policy measures 1(d)); and



- 54 -                         ANNEX V
Page 8 of 10
(b)  Import Prohibitions:  Protection to new industries will be
granted through the tariff system and through other incentives to
be provided by the proposed new Investment Code for a limited
period of time. Import prohibitions for protective purposes (the
Control of Goods (Import and Export) (Commerce) (Import
Prohibition) order, 1980) which now cover about 50 items will be
replaced in two stages by appropriate tariff rates. One half of
the prohibitions will be eliminated by December 1985 and the
remaining half by December 1986. 
4. Export Promotion. In order to help increase non-traditional
exports, the following measures, which were announced in the
Budget Address, are being Implemented:
(a) The export licensing system will be simplified. The exact
features of the new system are under elaboration by the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry.
(b) The export earnings retention scheme has already been
improved by lengthening the retention period from 21 days to
60 days.
(c) A new revolving fund for export development will be
established. The institutional arrangement, operational
guidelines and financial requirements have been studied by a
consultant. His report is expected soon. We hope to
discuss this report with the Bank, as soon as possible in
order to agree on a program of action to start the
operation of such a fund.
(d) An autonomous export promotion body to help exporters
identify new export products and markets and to promote
exports will be established. This promotional body is
expected to become operational by December 31, 1985.
In addition to the measures announced in the Budget Address, we
intend to implement the followving:
(e) The existing duty drawback system will be simplified by December
31, 1985. The drawback will be based on average percentages of
imported inputs for major types or groups of exports, and these
averages would be revised periodically.
(f)  Exporters will be allowed to open interest earning foreign
currency accounts at domestic banks.
5.  Investment Code. The existing Industrial Development Act has had
an inhibitive effect on business development, particularly by the
private sector. As noted above, a draft of a new investment code has
been prepared and is currently being discussed. As announced in the
Budget Address we intend to adopt legislation to amend the Act. The
proposed reforms of this Act currently under preparation will be
adopted by December 31, 1985.



- 55 -                        ANNEX V
Page 9 of 10
6. Small-Scale Enterprises. In order to promote Suall-Scale
Enterprises ye have announced in the Budget Addre.s that we
will present legislation to amend the Bank of Zambia Act so as to
Introduce a credit guarantee scheme for small-scale industrles.
7. Interest Rate Liberalization. As discussed before, over
the past year we have raised Interest rates signlficantly.
Our objectives are to allow initially for a gradual        W
adjustment in Interest rates in order to attain positive real
rates and subsequently to free interest rates from all
controls. In order to accomplish these goals we will
continue to raise interest rates from time to time. We
expect to lift all controls and thus achieve a completely
deregulated interest rate regime by December 31, 1985.
8. Public Enterprises. In order to deal with two main problems
faced by INDECO, namely:
(i) the insufficient review and evaluation of existing
operations and proposed new investments; and
(ii) the inability of INDECO, and particularly Its
subsidiaries, to recruit and retain the necessary
qualified staff, we will liplement the following actions:
(a) INDECO wlll adopt sound economic criteria to be applied in
evaluating new investments and the performance of existing
enterprises by June 30, 1985.
(b) An Evaluation Unit to apply the above criteria will be set
up and will engage consultants, to be financed under a Bank
PPF with terms of reference and qualifications satisfactory
to the Bank to undertake the following:
(i) Review projects costing more than K2 million which
started after July 1, 1984 or are expected to start
preor to June 30, 1985 on the basis of the economic
criteria referred to under (a) above;
(ii) Review the economic viability of all other investment
projects whose costs exceed K2 uwlion that are under
study as part of INDECO's investment program for the
three-year period ending in 1987/88;
(iii) Investment projects that do not satisfy the agreed
criteria of economic viability will either be reviewed
and restructured to satisfy such cziteria or be
discontinued;
(iv) Review, with the help of consultants to be financed
under the project, the economic viability and
operational efficiency of operating INDECO
subsidiaries, starting by October 1, 1985.



56-  'LN   V
- 56 -                        Age 10 of 10
(c)  INDICO will implemnt a program of action beginning October
1, 1986, based on the consultants' review tot
(1) Improve the performance of enterprises with potential
economic viabillty; and
(ii)  restructure, reorganise or phase out enterprises that are
not economically viable.
(d)  INDECO will undertake a study to determine:
(i) The appropriate level of compensatf.on as well as those
other measures necessary to recruit and retain quallfled
staff; the terms of reference and qualifications of the
study team will be discussed with the Bank by June 30, 1985;
and
(1i) an action program to implement the reemm endations of the
study will be agreed with-the Bank by December 31, 1985.
13.       This is an ambitious and far-reaching program that we have set
for ourselves over the next year or so. However, we feel it is imperative
to continue moving ahead with these reforms so that the structural changes
required in industry can get underway. The Industrial Re-orientation
Project is crucial to c_;plement this program, given the acute scarcity of
foreign exdhange for industrial Inputs.
14.       We look forward to the World Bank's support in this endeavour.
Yours sincerely,
L.LLJMJ( 1IU,NP
MINISTER OF FINANCE AND NATIONAL COMMISSION
FOR DEVELOPMENT PLANNING



