CREDIT NUMBER / 3 0 -ZA
Development Credit Agreement
(Industrial Reorientation Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                2 , 1985


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                         c0'         , 1985,
between THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Association in its
capacity as Administrator of the Special facility for Sub-Saharan
Africa (the African Facility) established by its Executive Direc-
tors by Resolution No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985 (the Resolution)
to assist in the financing of the same Project by granting a
special credit (hereinafter called the African Facility Credit)
to the Borrower equivalent to forty-two million one hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 42,100,000); and the Asso-
ciation as such Administrator is willing to grant the African
Facility Credit pursuant to the African Facility Credit Agreement
of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association as
such Administrator;
(C) the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Kingdom
a  grant   in  the   amount  of  Pounds   Sterling  ten  million
(E10,000,Q00) equivalent out of the Special Joint Financing
provided under paragraph 9 of the Resolution to assist in the
financing of the same Project;
(D) the Association has received a letter dated June 13,
1985 from the Borrower describing a program of actions designed
to bring about appropriate changes in its industrial and trade
policies (the Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to
the execution of the Program;
(E) pursuant to an exchange of letters dated February 18,
1985 and March 18, 1985 between the Borrower and the Association,
the Association has granted to the Borrower an advance in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred sixty thousand dollars
($160,000) (hereinafter called the Project Prepartion Advance)
for the purpose of assisting the Borrower in the preparation of
the Project; and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section  1.01.     The  General  Conditions  Applicable   to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, dated January 1, 1985 (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty million one hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 20,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Scheudle may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special account in its Central
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit


﻿- 3 -
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988 or
tich later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-f ourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1
and November 1 commencing November 1, 1995, and ending May 1,
2035. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on May 1, 2005 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule
5 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the proisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including the Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after


﻿-5 -
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by the said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records   (contracts,  orders,   invoices,  bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1985, commence feasibility studies on the establishment
of a credit insurance scheme and an export guarantee scheme under
terms of reference acceptable to the Association; (b) not later
than December 31, 1986 submit to the Association a plan of action
for the implementation of the recommendations of the studies; and
(c)  in   consultation   with  the   Association   implement  the
recommendations of the studies.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1985 establish or cause to be established within INDECO


﻿-6-
an Economic Evaluation Unit to apply sound economic criteria for
the appraisal of new investment projects and the performance of
existing enterprises; (b) cause the Economic Evaluation Unit to
carry out an appraisal, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, of new investment projects and existing enter-
prises; and (c) cause INDECO to discontinue by December 31, 1985
any new investment project costing one million dollars equivalent
or more which is considered by the Borrower and the Association
to be economically unsound.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than
December 31, 1985 submit to the Association an Action Program
acceptable to the Association for (i) phasing out or otherwise
disposing of on-going industrial activities and enterprises
considered by the Borrower and the Association to be economically
unsound; and (ii) restructuring and/or taking other appropriate
measures  to  improve  the  performance  of on-going   industrial
enterprises considered by the Borrower and the Association to be
potentially economically viable; and (b) commence implementing
such Program not later than April 1, 1986.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause INDECO to implement,
not later than April 1, 1986, or such other date as the Associa-
tion may agree, the Action Program acceptable to the Borrower and
the Association on renumeration and other conditons of service of
key professional and technical staff.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall, in consultation with the
Association take not later than June 30, 1986 appropriate
measures to ensure that its sales tax applies to such domestical-
ly produced goods, to be agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 4.07.   The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program. To that end,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its review and
comments a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:


﻿-7-
(a) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the African Facility Credit made
to the Borrower for the financing of the
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant-
to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor, or
(B) the African Facility Credit shall have become
due and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the   Association  that:   (A)  such   suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that the event specified in paragraph (a) (i) (B) ot Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (a) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) The auction system for determining the exchange rate,
referred to in the Program, has been approved by the Borrower and
has been put into operation.
(b) The Borrower has submitted to the Association evidence
satisfactory to the Association that necessary governmental


﻿-8-
action has been taken: to modify the existing import licensing
system towards an unrestricted import registration system; and
(ii) to repeal all regulations for prohibiting imports for
protective purposes.
(c) The Borrower has submitted to the Association a list of
items expected to attract zero import duty after December 31,
1985.
(d) The Borrower has submitted to the Association evidence
satisfactory to the Association that the naximum tariff rate on
imports has been reduced from 150 per cent \;o 100 per cent.
(e) All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
African Facility Credit (other than the effectiveness of this
Agreement) have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02.  The date sixty days after the date. of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 50062
Lusaka
Zambia
Cable address:                          Telex:
MINFIN                             MINFIN ZA 42221
Lusaka


﻿-9-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                          Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ByjsjlelDc~             V    /
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation,i of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Industrial goods         17,200,000        100% of foreign
and spare parts                            expenditures
under Part A of
the Project
(2) Equipment and                160,000        100% of foreign
vehicles under                             expenditures and
Part D of the                              75% of local ex-
Project                                    penditures
(3) Consultants' ser-          2,190,000        100%
vices under Part
B of the Project
(4) Training under               285,000        100%
Part C of the
Project
(5) Refunding of                 165,000        Amount due pur-
Project Pre-                               suant to Section
paration                                   2.02(c) of this
Advance                                    Agreement
(6) Unallocated                  100,000
TOTAL               20,100,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule: (a) the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in a currency other than that of
the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of
any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) The term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) expen-
ditures under Category (1), after the aggregate of the proceeds
of the Credit withdrawn from such Category or committed under
special commitments or under qualified agreements to reimburse
shall have reached an amount of SDR 10,000,000 equivalent, unless
the Association shall then have been provided with evidence
satisfactory to the Association in compliance with Section 4.07
of this Agreement that the Borrower has achieved progress satis-
factory to the Association in the carrying out of the Program and
the provisions of Schedule 4 of this Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) support important
policy and institutional reforms designed to increase the effi-
ciency and productivity of the private and public firms in the
industrial sector; (ii) to encourage the reorientation of the
industrial sector towards greater use of local resources and
increased exports and (iii) to increase the capacity utilization
of the most cost efficient among existing enterprises.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Industrial Imports
A program for the importation of spare parts, raw materials
and other inputs for private and public industrial enterprises.
Part B:   Technical Assistance
Provision of technical assistance to:
(a) the Ministry of Finance to set up the Tariff Commission
included in the Program, draw up terms of reference and
work program of the Commission and identify its staff
requirements;
(b) the Ministry of Commerce and Industries to establish
the Export Promotion Board, included in the Program.
(c) the Bank of Zambia to work on forecasts and budget of
foreign exchange and to provide on-the-job staff train-
ing to Zambia nationals in this area; and
(d) INDECO to improve INDECO's capacity to appraise invest-
ment projects and to improve the performance of exist-
ing enterprises.
Part C:   Training
Local and overseas training of INDECO staff in project
apraisal and evaluation.


﻿- 13 -
Part D:   Equipment and Vehicles
Provision of equipment and vehicles to assist in the estab-
lishment of INDECO's Economic Evaluation Unit, included in the
Program
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1989.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A.   Modified International Competitive Bidding
Contracts for the procurement of industrial inputs and spare
parts under Part A of the Project estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:
(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done
by advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a
bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or
to bid; such advertisements should be placed in at least one
newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:


﻿- 15 -
"As  a  further  alternative, bidding    documents may
require the bidder to state the bid price in a single
currency widely used in international trade and specified in
the bidding documents."
(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and     2.56    of the Guidelines are
deleted.
Part B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for industrial inputs and spare parts under Part A
of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$2,000,000 each shall be awarded on the basis of normal procure-
ment procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
2.   Equipment and vehicles under Part B of the Project may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
Part C.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for industrial imports
and spare parts estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appen-
dix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such proce-
dures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6
(the Special Account Schedule) to this Agreement.


﻿- 16 -
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B of
the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Tranche Release
The measures to be specifically included in the review
provided in paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement are as
follows:
The Borrower shall have:
(a) taken appropriate measures to implement its Program for
the removal of all controls on interest rates;
(b) submitted   to   the  Association  INDECO's  investment
program acceptable to the Association for fiscal year 1986/1987;
(c) completed the legislative process for enacting a new
Investment Act;
(d) commenced the implementation of a program of action
acceptable to the Association for improving the forecasting and
budgeting of foreign exchange;
(e) taken appropriate measures to simplify its export
procedures so that the current system of duty drawback shall be
replaced by a system based on average drawbacks covering major
groups of exports; and
(f) taken appropriate measures to rationalize tariffs on
imports so that with the exception of a restricted list of items
submitted by the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of this
Agreement, all other items with a zero import tariff shall be
subject to a 10 per cent minimum tariff.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
In carrying out Part A of the Project the Borrower shall
sell foreign exchange to importers through the auction system as
follows:
1.   (i) A Foreign Exchange Auction Committee (FEAC) shall be
established within the Bank of Zambia to administer the
auction system.
(ii) Requests for foreign exchange for all purposes shall be
made to the FEAC through a commercial bank.
(iii) A Secretariat shall be established within the Bank of
Zambia to allocate foreign exchange available from
different sources to successful bidders. The Borrower
shall ensure that the Secretariat shall include a
person qualified to advise on the eligibility of the
goods to be financed under the Credit.
(iv) The Bank of Zambia shall hold a weekly or bi-weekly
auction of foreign exchange, the amount of which shall
be announced in advance.
(v) The exchange rate at each auction shall be determined
by the marginal bid which exhausts the foreign exchange
available in that particular auction and the rate shall
apply to all foreign exchange transactions.
(vi) Importers shall be required to receive the imports
within a reasonable time of the purchase of foreign
exchange and report accordingly to the Bank of Zambia.
2.   The Borrower shall take appropriate measures to ensure that
the proceeds of the Credit shall be allocated only for the
importation of industrial goods and spare parts under Part A of
the Project.
3.   The Borrower shall take appropriate measures to ensure that
the proceeds of the Credit sold under the auction system shall
not exceed a cumulative average of $2 million equivalent per
month or such other amount as the Association may agree.*
*    A Supplemental Letter shall provide a schedule of monthly
cumulative ceilings of foreign exchange to be sold.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit allocated from time to time to Category 1 in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equi-
valent to $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdra-
wals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective Category 1,


﻿- 20 -
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to Category 1 for Part A of the Project,
minus the amount of any outstanding qualified
agreement to reimburse made by the Association and
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to Part A of the
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Cate-
gory 1 for Part A of the Project shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making pay-
ments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any


﻿- 21 -
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing ia true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the 3 day of 0_C__d
198
FOR SECRETARY


