Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6228-BO
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 6.8 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR A
HYDROCARBON SECTOR REFORM AND CAPITALIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
JUNE 2, 1995



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =    Boliviano (Bs)
US$1.00  =    Bs 4.73
Bs 1.00   =    US$0.21
GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AC           -      Advisory Committee
BOE          -      Barrel of Oil Equivalent
CESICA       -      Comision Ejecutiva de Seguridad Industrial y Control
Ambiental (Industrial Safety, and Environmental Control Unit)
CAPU         -      Capitalization Unit
CPAC         -      Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit
EIA          -      Environmental Impact Assessment
ENTE         -      Entity for Negotiations, and Promotion of Exploration and Production
E&P          -      Exploration and Production
HCS          -      Hydrocarbon Sector Superintendency in SIRESE
IDA          -      Intemational Development Agency
IDB          -      Inter-American Development Bank
MEC          -      Sociedades Anonimas Mixtas (Mixed Economy Corporations)
MOC          -      Ministry of Capitalization
MOED         -      Ministry of Economic Development
MOF          -      Ministry of Finance
MOSDE        -      Ministry of Sustainable Development and Environment
NC           -      National Congress
NSC          -      National Secretariat of Capitalization
NSE          -      National Secretariat of Energy
NSOF         -      National Secretariat of Finance
NSONRE       -      National Secretariat of Natural Resources and Environment
PEU          -      Project Executing Unit
PPF          -      Project Preparation Facility
SIRESE       -      Sistema de Regulacion Sectorial (Multi- Sectorial Regulatory Conmnission)
YPFB         -      Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos (State Owned Oil Company)



BOLIVIA
HYDROCARBON SECTOR REFORM AND CAPITALIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTION A: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION .............................................I
I. SECTOR   OVERVIEW    ............................................................                                                                         I
Introduction ..........................................................................1I
Salient Facts  about the  Sector .............................................................I
II. HYDROCARBON  SECTOR  ISSUES .............................................................                                                                3
Sector  Structure  ............................................................3
Legal and  Regulatory  Framework  ....................                                             .........................................4
Petroleum   Products  Pricing  and  Taxation ............................................................                                                    5
Environmental Aspects  .............................................................6
Yacimientos  Petroliferos  Fiscales  Bolivianos  (YPFB) ...................................................7
III. GOVERNM ENT   POLICY   ACTIONS   .............................................................                                                          7
Government's  Capitalization  Policy  Actions  .............................................................                                                 7
Government's  Hydrocarbons  Sector Policy  Actions .....................................................8
IV. PROJECT   DESCRIPTION   ............................................................9
SECTION B: PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION ........ 13
Project  Implementation ................................................... .                                                                       .......  13
Project Preparation  Status ............................................................                                                                     14
Procurement and Disbursement ............................................................                                                                    16
ATTACHMENT ............................................................                                                                                      19
Environmental Aspects:  Issues  and  Action  Plan ............................................................ 20
SCHEDULE, TABLES AND  FIGURES ............................................................                                                                   25
Schedule  1:   Summary  of Project Activities  and  Timetable  ....................                                                 ....................... 26
Table  1:   Summary  of Project Costs  by  Beneficiary  Agency  ...................                                                   ...................... 29
Table  2: Project Performance  Indicators ............................................................                                                      30
Table 3: Procurement Arrangements by Beneficiary and Estimated IDA
Disbursement ............................................................                                                                                   31
Figure  1: Project Implementation  Organization  Chart ................................................... 33






BOLIVIA
HYDROCARBON SECTOR REFORM AND CAPITALIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SECTION A: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
I.  SECTOR OVERVIEW
Introduction
1.    Bolivia's oil and gas sector has strong potential for attracting foreign direct investment and
providing needed economic growth. However, for the last decade, it has not seen major progress
partly because of the overwhelming predominance of the State through its national company,
Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos (YPFB), and the limnited attractiveness of the
Hydrocarbons Law.
Salient Facts about the Sector
2.    During the last decade, the following elements characterized the hydrocarbon sector in Bolivia:
* steady decline in the production of liquids until the end of 1986 with an increase in 1994
and renewal of exports at the end of 1993.
-  stable production and export of natural gas to Argentina but steady decline in the price.
*  decline in the number of companies exploring in the country until 1988 and an increase of
interest in Bolivia after 1990 new Hydrocarbons Law.
*  weakening of Govemment institutions dealing with the sector.
*  deterioration of YPFB's finances, and liquidity.
*  over-taxation of YPFB in the form of transfers of surplus to the Treasury.
*  considerable goverment interference in YPFB's day-to-day operations.
*  some degree of politicization and demoralization of YPFB's personnel.
3.    High inflation and political instability in the country, particularly in the early part of the 1980s,
have exacerbated the problems of the hydrocarbon sector. In addition, YPFB has experienced long
and frequent delays in being paid by Argentina for its gas sales to YPF -- more than six months at
times. This situation has led YPFB to delay its payments to its suppliers of natural gas and liquids, and
to the service contractors. By the end of the decade, YPFB was the major company exploring in the



- 2 -
country. However, after the promulgation of the new Hydrocarbons Law in November 1990, new
interest in Bolivia emerged again, particularly with Brazil natural gas market potential .
4.    Exploration. As of April 1995, there were 15 operations contracts, three secondary recovery
contracts and three association contracts. While this foreign participation in exploration is
encouraging, it remains modest compared to the country natural gas potential, and the relative success
obtained by the neighboring countries such as Argentina, Peru, and Colombia where the number of
contracts signed is much more important and the areas under exploration cover a large part of the
sedimentary basins of these countries. Furthermore, these contracts did not result in significant
investments to stimulate the sector. In 1992, investments by oil companies reached US$150 million of
which only US$76 million were in exploration. The number of oil companies including those operating
under secondary recovery contracts reached twenty five by April 1995. These companies control
about 24 blocks with an area of about 14 million hectares (about 23 percent of total potential
acreage), while YPFB controls 26 blocks with an area of about 7.4 million hectares (about 12 percent
of total). The signing of the natural gas sale purchase agreements between Bolivia and Brazil in
August 1988 -- which was replaced by the one of October 1991 -- has created a renewed interest in
Bolivia as a potential supplier of natural gas. This interest increased further after the signing of joint-
venture agreements in July 1994 between YPFB and ENRON, and YPFB and BHP Petroleum for
natural gas exports to Brazil and Chile, respectively. Interest in exploration will increase as a result of
these last agreements and the likelihood of an export market for natural gas.
5.    Reserves and Production. As of January 1995, were 56.9 there were 59 known oil and gas
fields with remaining recoverable reserves in Bolivia. The geographical distribution of the fields where
YPFB operates is as follows: 21 fields in the Area Boomerang-Chapare; 11 fields in the Central Area;
and 16 fields in the southern part of the country. Private contractors, or "contratistas" operate the
remaining 11 fields. These fields as well as the quasi totality of the exploratory efforts are in the area
known as the "Area Tradicional", covering nearly one third of Bolivia. As of January 1995, the
remaining proven oil and condensate reserves were 56.9 million barrel (MMBbl) and 71.3 MMBbl,
respectively. The remaining proven gas reserves were 3.8 trillion cubic feet (TCF) while the probable
gas reserves were 2.5 TCF. YPFB own production is about eighty percent of the total natural gas
production and about seventy percent of total liquids' production. Total production peaked in 1973 at
47,000 barrels per day (BD) declining thereafter to less than 22,000 BD in 1986. Recent discoveries in
the Chapare Area have helped increase the production to about 32,000 BD in 1995. The natural gas
reserves base, while important, needs to be increased to support export of large volumes of natural gas
to Brazil, Argentina and possibly Paraguay and Chile.
6.    Drilling. As of February 1995, YPFB's Drilling Department, staffed with 917 employees or
about 18.8 percent of total YPFB's staff, is the company's largest department. YPFB owns and
operates nine drilling rigs and ten work over rigs. According to a recent evaluation of these rigs by
Petro-Canada, only two rigs are new and nine are considered in good shape with nine being thirty two
years and older. The equipment has a variety of manufacturers and is costly to maintain and operate.
Field drilling personnel have solid experience and know-how, but, overall operational equipment/tools
are either obsolete or inadequate, making drilling costly. In comparison with private drilling companies
operating in Bolivia, YPFB's drilling cost is high.



- 3 -
7.    Refining. YPFB's refining available capacity is substantially higher than petroleum product
demand; it amounts to 50,000 BD compared to a demand of 26,000 BD. The breakdown by refinery
is: Sucre 3,000 BD (reprocessing only), Cochabamba 27,000 BD and Santa Cruz 20.000 BD. The
production of refined petroleum products from three domestic refineries is approximately in balance
with demand on a total product basis. Currently there are individual product imbalances, particularly
small surpluses of gasoline, and shortages of diesel oil. These are due basically to the nature of the
domestic crude produced, and to some extent, the limitations of refinery configuration. The plants are
simple hydro-skimming refineries, designed to process the light, sweet crude and condensates which
the country produces. Refineries produce about a quarter of the LPG consumed, and the balance
comes from field gas plants. It does not appear that there will be a need to expand capacity or to build
conversion capacity in the foreseeable future.
8.    Distribution and Marketing. YPFB has a ownership of thirty bulk storage depots with
loading racks, fifty three kerosene outlets, seven large LPG bottling plants and nineteen small one sixty
three service stations (but operates only four), no road tankers, and one hundred and thirty three rail
tank cars. The private sector owns and operate more than 171 service stations, and all river barges and
tugs. YPFB performance in this area is quite satisfactory. Supply and distribution were never
interrupted. However, marketing cost is high and investments for maintenance and modernization of
installations were low, particularly during the last five years.
9.    YPFB's Finances. YPFB's 1993 domestic sales amounted to about Bs2.067 billion while
export, mostly natural gas to Argentina, amounted to about Bs604.9 million, the equivalent of US$451
million and US$132 million, respectively. Net profit amounted to about US$200 million. Total fixed
assets were equal to about Bs3.655 billion, equivalent to about US$798 million of which production
and gas plants represented fifty six percent, refining more than seven percent and pipeline twenty six
percent. YPFB's long term debt stood at Bsl.412 billion equivalent to about US$308 million.
Operating costs are considered high and liquidity of YPFB is poor.
H.    HYDROCARBON SECTOR ISSUES
Sector Structure
10.   Presently, the Government is the policy maker, the regulator and, as indicated above, the sole
shareholder of YPFB. The National Secretariat of Energy (NSE) has supervisory authority for the
hydrocarbon sector in the areas of policy making, regulation and coordination. The Directorate of
Energy and Hydrocarbons (DGH), within NSE, exercises these functions by monitoring, regulating and
enforcing the Hydrocarbons Law and related regulations. But DGH lacks the human and financial
resources as well as the expertise and experience to do its job effectively. Moreover, the ability of NSE
to influence YPFB and overall hydrocarbon policy is very limited. Under this structure NSE and DGH
have had only very limited leverage in dealing with YPFB, and limited authority to perform their
respective roles adequately.



- 4 -
Legal and Regulatory Framework
11.   The Hydrocarbons Law of November 1990 is the legal document that established the policy
and organization of the sector. This law was an improvement over the 1972 Hydrocarbon Law. It did
open pipeline and downstream activities to the private sector participation, but has maintained YPFB's
monopoly in upstream activities, i.e. exploration and production (E&P), allowing for the entry of the
private sector through operations and/or association contracts. But since its enactment, the
Government has not taken all the required steps to promote private investment in exploration or
introduce a transparent bidding system. Moreover, the Government has neither changed the present
role nor ownership of YPFB's, except for the following: introduction of an enhanced secondary
recovery contract; the opening of marketing outlets under concession or supply agreement with YPFB;
and the establishment of private natural gas distribution companies.
12.   Operations and Association Contracts. The Hydrocarbon Law grants YPFB monopolistic
control of exploration and production in the country. It also provides for two types of contract, under
which investors may conduct exploration and production activities in Bolivia:
*  The Operations Contract. The basis of this contract is the 1971 Peruvian model (no
longer in use) under which there is approximately a 50/50 sharing of measured gross
production, with the contractor bearing all costs up to the "fiscalization - i.e supervision for
compliance" or metering point but with all taxes deemed included in the State company's
share.
*  The Association Contract. This contract is not based on any international precedent. It
is essentially an operations contract with a superimposed equity participation option for
YPFB, should it elect to participate in the development and production of a commercial
discovery. Unlike the operations contract, it does not provide any new incentives. To
date, only three association contracts have been signed, primarily for two reasons: (a) the
relative un-attractiveness of the deal on a risk-weighted basis in comparison to what is
available in other countries; and (b) private investor concerns that YPFB may have
difficulty funding its share of development costs.
13.   It is mainly the taxation regime of this law that hinders Bolivian competitiveness. Bolivia is
mostly known as a gas prone country with potential of discovery in the proven traditional basins of
only small oil and gas condensate fields. In addition, the law has several other weaknesses that
discourage private foreign direct investment, among which: (i) the limited and inflexible contractual
arrangements for upstream operations, i.e. exploration and production by obligating the foreign
investor to be a partner of YPFB; (ii) no free disposition, export and import of crude oil, petroleum
products and natural gas; and (iii) control by the government of crude oil, natural gas and petroleum
products prices which create economic distortions and dis-incentives for investment.
14.   Petroleum Regulations. With the assistance of UNDP, the previous Ministry of Energy and
Hydrocarbons prepared more than 17 draft regulations implementing the new Hydrocarbons Law and
dealing, among other things, with storage and distribution, oil blending service stations, compressed



-5 -
natural gas, transportation of liquids by pipeline. IDA was requested to comment on these drafts.
Only six were issued. In general, they were rigid, very restrictive and continue to lend too much
authority to and interference by YPFB. New regulations need to be drafted when the new
Hydrocarbons Law is approved by the National Congress (NC). In addition to this work, IDA with
funding from ESMAP, provided technical assistance for a study to analyze the economics of natural
gas distribution in Bolivia, and the drafting of a gas code to: (i) promote substitution of LPG and diesel
domestically; (ii) stimulate private sector participation in this activity, (iii) design the structure,
authority, and responsibilities of the Government in this area; (iv) define broad principles for natural gas
exports; (v) design tariff-setting principles, parameters, mechanisms for investors; and (vi) define rules
for common access to gas pipeline transport and taxes on the end use of natural gas. The new
administration that took office in August 1993 opted to have a single new Hydrocarbons Law which is
under preparation and which would incorporate the main principles included in the draft gas code.
Petroleum Products and Natural GasPricing and Taxation
15.    Prices for petroleum products, LPG and natural gas are set by the Govemment in accordance
to Article 75 of Decree 21060 and, in most cases as shown in the table below, are inconsistent with
intemational prices. In addition, there is no explicit taxing system for each product. The final prices of
petroleum products reflect an average price per composite barrel received by YPFB, augmented by an
important tax component calculated to satisfy the revenue needs of the Treasury.
Intemal Price  Opport. Pr.    Subsidy(-) or Tax(+)
Petroleum Product    US$/Barrel    US$/Barrel    Million $US Dollar
Special Gasoline          62.1             44.7           83.5
Premium Gasoline          90.6             46.1            5.5
Kerosene                  31.8             45.5           -1.5
Jet Fuel                  41.6             40.2           12.8
Diesel                    50.9             43.6           43.8
Gas Oil                   25.4             38.3           - 0.3
Fuel oil                  47.7             32.5            3.0
LPG                       21.0             29.2          -11.6
Total                                                    135.2
Weighted Average          48.5             40.1
Notc: Prices as of April 1995. Opportuniuty price includes import pfice plus transport. marketing and distribution margins.
This table shows non-explicit high taxes for gasoline in particular and large subsidies for LPG
and kerosene. This pricing and taxation system has created severe distortions for both producers and
consumers. In addition, it does not allow transparency of cost and prices at various levels of the
industry, resulting in cross-subsidization which in turn result in inefficiency in operations. These
aspects wvill be addressed by the reform program.
16.    Natural Gas Pricing and Taxation. While prices for natural gas export reflect competitive
open market prices at the Argentine-Bolivia border, the natural gas internal prices are set arbitrarily to
respond to continual pressures by ENDE, the Power Public Utility Company which is the major
consumer of natural gas and many special interest groups (private companies, labor unions, provinces



- 6 -
and public enterprises). They remain to be defined within the framework of the revised hydrocarbon
law and well designed natural gas regulations. Presently, this commodity is not explicitly taxed by the
Government.
Environmental Aspects
17.   The Diagnostic Study of YPFB's operations and physical facilities have identified a number of
environmental issues: (i) weak environmental capability within the company and lack of experience; (ii)
weakness of institutions at NSE as well as at MOSDE with respect to environmental management,
including monitoring and enforcement of environmental regulations; (iii) lack of environmental
regulations, operational guidelines and procedures within the company; (iv) lack of regulatory
capability and authority, and no viable means of enforcing regulations at the level of NSE as well as at
the level of MOSDE; (v) insufficient awareness and acceptance of the environmental impact on
operations within YPFB, NSE and MOSDE; (vi) environmental impact on areas accessed for seismic
and exploration drilling; (vii) gas flaring and related environmental impact such as noise; and (viii)
environmental impact resulting from new and more intense exploration and production activity. Other
environmental issues include:
*  impact of petroleum activities particularly exploration and production in remote rural areas
on indigenous people, wildlife, ecology and declared protected areas.
* above-ground pipelines and possible oil spills.
* lack of procedures, material, and equipment for emergency countermeasure.
18.   The study concluded that YPFB has had a poor environmental record in terms of protecting
the soil and subsoil, rivers, forests and air from effluent during all aspects of petroleum activities. The
proposed project will address identified problems in these areas. Two in-depth environmental audits of
all YPFB physical installations and operations are being carried out by two separate firms and a
mitigation plan will be developed to remedy most of the damages identified. These audits will extend
to areas covered by existing or potential private exploration and/or development projects and will also
address social as well as ecological issues of remote indigenous people. They will be reviewed by a
legal consultant to determine their implications and Government's responsibility. The Government has
already indicated that it intends to assume responsibility for all such environmental concern. The
Government also intends to implement the recommendations of these environmental audits.
19.   The Government recognizes that, if it does not adequately address the environmental problems
that petroleum operations cause and the related measures required to protect indigenous people,
serious consequences would occur and would have negative repercussions which would hinder further
private oil exploration. In addition, the Government is also aware of the need to address current flows
and installations design issues and their environmental and social impacts. The project will address
these issues through the promulgation of a defined set of petroleum regulations, norms, operational
guidelines, and provision of training of personnel in NSE as well as in MOSDE. Furthermore, the
establishment of working group in NSE dedicated to environmental aspects and supported by



-7 -
environmental experts which will lead to the establishment of an Environmental Unit in NSE will
address these issues. Funds from the credit will be provided to carry out these tasks in coordination
with those which are planned for addressing environmental issues in the power sector. These tasks
will be carried out in close coordination and under the guidance and leadership of the MOSDE and in
cooperation with the oil companies. More details are provided in Attachment 1.
Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos (YPFB)
20.   Role of YPFB. YPFB as a state company plays a dominant role in the petroleum industry in
Bolivia. By far, it is the oldest company in the country. Private companies have used YPFB as a
reliable partner, a source of information and also as a source of help to carry out many of their
operations. With a fairly good discovery success ratio, it was able to provide the energy requirements
the country needs for its economic development. Although YPFB is in a privileged exploration
position it controls only 7.4 million hectares out of a total of about 69 million hectares of sedimentary
basins. However, because of Government budgetary constraints, YPFB cannot get the financial
resources to actively explore this acreage. The privileged position which YPFB hold stems from the
Hydrocarbons Law which grants it the monopoly in exploration and production, and a special role to
act on behalf of the state. In addition, YPFB is in a unique position of funding a significant portion of
the Government's budget. But this fiscal relationship to the state budget has also restricted its ability to
have the financial resources in order to plan and manage its investment programs and its operations in
general.
21.   Government Interference in YPFB Operations. Because of YPFB's predominant role in
the economy and the impact it has on local and regional business, many segments of the Government
have been interfering in its operations -- central, provincial and local Govemments as well as incumbent
political parties This interference covers: (i) appointment and dismissal of personnel; (ii) procurement
process; and (iii) insistence on continued operation of uneconomic units, such as the Sucre refinery.
This has caused productivity and efficiency to be low thus breeding instability among personnel and the
hiring of unnecessary personnel. However, since January 1994, YPFB's personnel has decline and as
of April 1995, its total work force decreased by about 12 percent.
III. GOVERNMENT POLICY ACTIONS
Government's Capitalization Policy Actions
22.   Significant policy measures have been taken in order to lay the foundation for the reform of the
sector and the capitalization of YPFB. These measures are characterized by the passage of three
important laws that open the way for the Government to implement its reform program. The first is
the Capitalization Law (Law No. 1544) which was approved by the NC on March 21, 1994. This
law, in particular, authorizes the Executive Office to: (i) transfer all assets of the public enterprises,
including YPFB, for the creation of " Sociedades de Economia Mixta" (MECs) or joint venture
companies; (ii) capitalize each public enterprises including YPFB through a Supreme Decree; (iii)
transfer the State shares in these MECs to the Bolivian citizens, age 21 and above; (iv) establish a



- 8 -
"Fideicomiso" or Trust Fund which will be the depositoiy of these shares until the creation of Pension
Funds; and ()i) to let the Treasury assume, prior to sale, part or the whole financial liabilities of these
companies.
23.   The second law is the SIRESE Law (Law No. 1600) which was enacted recently on October
28, 1994 by the NC. This law defines the activities that will be regulated and the authority responsible
for regulations cnforcement as well as the mechanisms in case of litigation and complaints by either the
investor, the consumer or the public authority. It establishes a General Superintendency and five
Sectorial Superintendencies, among them that of the hydrocarbon sector. The law defines clearly the
functions and responsibilities of each of these units, their funding and the way the respective
Superintendent is designated.
24.    Finally, the third law is the General Tax Law (Law 1606) amending that of May 20, 1985 (Law
843), and which was enacted on December 22, 1994, by the NC. This Law establishes, in particular, a
new common corporate tax regime of 25 percent on taxable income for companies involved in
exploration, exploitation, refining, processing, pipeline transport and marketing. In addition, the law
introduces an excise tax on petroleum products which should not be in excess of Bs 1.50 per liter or
equivalent unit without specifying which products will be subjected to this tax. Regulations
implementing these laws will be promulgated in the near future. The passage of these fundamental
laws to achieve this program and the agreement on the Policy Framework Paper with the IMF are clear
signals of the Govemment commitment. They also establish a clearer framework for implementing this
T A and reflect a direction of reform whichi IDA agrees with.
Government's Hydrocarbons Sector Policy Actions
25.    These policy actions specific to the sector which were pledged by the Govemment and which
will be supported by this project include:
*  redefinition of the relative roles of the government --including central, province and local
(lovemments -- and the private sector in the hydrocarbons sector.
*  reorganization of the sector by the passage of a new Hydrocarbon Law, including an
internationally competitive fiscal regime and the promulgation of new regulations
implementing the law to attract private investment as the State withdraws from this sector.
a  r eform of the pricing and taxation system of petroleum products, LPG and natural gas, that
establishes explicit excise taxes on petroleum products. The new tax regime will help
restore price transparency at each stage of the industry, and thus, stimulate greater
competition in downstream operations.
*  capitalization of YPFB so that the resulting company or companies will compete fully in all
stages of the sector and have a contractual relationship with the Government for
exploration and production as well as pipelines, similar to any other private company. The
Government will open a portion of the exploration acreage presently held by YPFB to



- 9 -
exploration by private companies, preferably through simple and attractive contractual
arrangements in the form of concession.
* issuance of environmental regulations, standards and norms that would be legally
enforceable as well as strengthening of Government capacity to monitor environmental
aspects of hydrocarbons activities and mitigate damages that may be identified by
environmental audits of YPFB.
26.    Draft of the Hydrocarbons Law is in final stage (see para. 31 below for more detail) before
submission to the cabinet and the NC. There are still some pending issues that need to be resolved.
These concern in particular the upstream (E&P) fiscal regime, the organization of the sector, and the
future of existing Operations Contracts. The fiscal regime will be reexamined in the light of the new
General Tax Law discussed in para. 24 above. In particular, national royalty should be readjusted
upward to compensate for the low corporate tax rate approved by this law. However, the enactment
of the Hydrocarbons Law remains the most important building block to be put in place in order to
bring to fruition: (i) an adequate reorganization and governance of the sector that would capture the
economic rent and bring sufficient revenue to the government as well as long tenn sustainability and
stability of the sector; (ii) an environment which is competitive enough to attract major private sector
investment; and (iii) an acceptable trade off among all these considerations and those specifically
related to YPFB capitalization which are somewhat dependent on the way the sector will be
reorganized.
IV. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
27.    The Project includes the following three components:
(a)    Legal and Regulatory Framework This component will provide technical assistance
to NSE for developing and implementing a legal and regulatory framework fbr the
hydrocarbon sector. It wkill include to the final drafting of (i) regulations to the new
Hydrocarbons Law which are consistent with those of SIRESE law; (ii) model
concession and other contracts for exploration and production; and (iii) environmental
regulations, standards and norms related to the hydrocarbon activities to be consistent
with the Hydrocarbons Law, in close coordination with the MOSDE. In addition it
will include reviewing all legal aspects of natural gas distribution concessions and
identification of YPFB's financial and other liabilities arising from YPFB's current legal
relationship with natural gas distribution companies as a result of its wVithdrawal from
these companies pursuant to the capitalization process. The cost of this component is
about 6 percent of the total project cost.
(b)    Capitalization of YPFB. This component will provide technical assistance to the
MOC for designing a strategy and a master plan that would include measures leading to
the capitalization of YPFB It will include: (i) carrying out a technical and financial
valuation study of all YPFB assets, particularly physical assets; (ii) carrying out an
analysis and definition study of YPFB's business units and cost centers in order to



- 10 -
define best options for packaging such units; (iii) carrying out a follow-up study on the
finding of a preliminary YPFB's human resources study in order to identify issues
related with, and prepare a program for optimization of its personnel; (iv) carrying out
an analysis of YPFB's debt structure and composition and related issues in order to
determine their impact on the capitalization process and define, prior to capitalization,
how much debt would be allocated to each MEC and how; (v) following-up on the
initial stages of the two already commissioned environmental audits of all YPFB's
installations and operations, including, inter-alia, the development of respective plans
mitigation actions related to environmental concems arising from YPFB's activities and
following the recommendations of said audits by the development (prior to tendering
bids under the capitalization process) of an overall mitigation plan containing the
actions to be carried out prior and after the capitalization of each MEC, the definition
of which of the corresponding responsibilities will be imputed to each MEC in question
and the determination of the time frame for the respective mitigaation actions; (vi)
following up on the existing pilot inventory of YPFB's refining warehouses with a full
scale inventory study of all YPFB's remaining warehouses in order to analyze inventory
problems, prepare a plan for the disposal of obsolete materials and equipment, and
report realistic figures for inventory assets in YPFB's and MECs balance sheets; (vii)
providing administrative support to the CAPU in order to enable it to fulfill its role in
the capitalization process; (viii) analyzing the issues involved, primarily legal issues, and
preparing the documentation for the creation out of YPFB of each MEC, including
drafting and processing required regulations to the Capitalization Law which directly
relate to such creation and the regularization of YPFB's titles to all of its assets,
particularly in preparation for the aforesaid transformation of all the above based on
the relevant aspects of the findings and recommendations from other parts of the
project; (ix) preparing the bidding, and other legal documents, related to the
capitalization of each MEC by private investors under the capitalization process,
providing legal assistance in the process of evaluation of bids submitted by prospective
investors, negotiations and drafting of agreements and documents required to formalize
the capitalization of each MEC and all required transactions; (x) carrying out an
information campaign directed to the personnel of YPFB's trade unions political parties
and the public at large about YPFB capitalization process and strategy in order to raise
public awareness and enhance public endorsement of the process; (xi) establishing data
rooms in Bolivia and outside to provide information, particularly to prospective
investors about YPFB, each MEC and the sector, (xii) defining and implementing a
marketing strategy for the capitalization of YPFB, including the required road shows'
with the assistance of an investment bank; and acquisition and utilization for all of the
above of office furniture and materials, computers, software, and equipment such as
printers, and photocopying and facsimile machines. The cost of this component is
about 43 percent of total project cost.
The cost of the "Retainer Fee" for the investment bank will be financed by the Regulatory Reform and
Capitalization 'FA Credit, while the cost of the "Success Fee" will be financed by the private strategic investor(s).
An amount of US$200,000 is included to cover activities not included in the TOR of the investment bank.



- 11 -
(c)     Institutional Strengthening. This component2 will provide technical assistance to
enhance NSE capacity to prepare itself for playing its monitoring and regulating role.
More specifically, this component will include: (i) strengthening of DGH which 'Will be
involved in preparatory activities leading to the establishment, initial staffing and start
up operations of an appropriate organization structure (satisfactory to the IDA) as
provided by the Hydrocarbons Law which will, inter-alia: (a) formulate E&P policies,
(b) promote E&P activities and investment, (c) negotiate concessions and other types
of contracts with and be counterpart of investors, (d) implement a Data Bank (to be
made available to interested parties, including oil companies and contractors)
composed of technical information and physical samples related to and provided
under, the hydrocarbon activities currently performed by YPFB and other contractors;
(e) enforce technical and safety standards and norms applicable to the hydrocarbon
operations and (f) monitor concessions, operation contracts and ensure compliance of
obligations of contractors, including compliance of investors' investment obligations in
E&P activities, but not limited to, under the capitalization process and training of
Bolivian individuals; (ii) designing a unit within the organizational structure referred to
in (i) above that will manage the data bank referred above and determine its initial
staffing; (iii) designing the organizational structure and determine its initial staffing and
start up needs of a unit that will monitor compliance with environmental regulations,
norms and standards applicable to the sector, including indigenous population and
ecological issues, particularly in remote areas; (iv) carrying out a promotion campaign
to attract private foreign investment in for exploration and production activities in the
sector; (v) designing the organizational structure and determining initial staffing and
start up needs for the HCS in SIRESE, (vi) providing training to NSE personnel for the
staffing of the units described above in item (i) through (iii) and (v) i.e for the data
bank, enforcement of technical and safety regulations, monitoring environmental
regulations, implementation of promotional campaigns, contract negotiations, as
applicable, and in general monitoring the corresponding of activities in the sector; (vii)
providing administrative support to the PEU in order to enable it to fulfill its role in the
reform of the sector process; and (viii) acquiring and utilizing for all of the above office
equipment and materials, computers, software, printers, and photo-copying and
facsimile machines, and two four-wheel drive vehicles for the working group in charge
of environmental matters. The cost of this component is about 51 percent of total
project cost.
Table I shows Project Cost and Financing by Beneficiary Agency. Table 2 shows Project
Performance Indicators. Table 3 shows Procurement and Disbursement Ar-angements, and
2 rhe content of this component depends on the new Hydrocarbons Law which will be enacted by the NC. This
law will determine how the sector will be organized and what should be the relations of this law with that of
SIRESE. The Government's objective is to limit the creation of many separate entities for the sector. Keeping this
uncertainty in mind, it is assumed that DGHi will be maintained and the creation of a small ENTE



- 12 -
Schedule 1 gives a Summary of the Project Activities and Timetable. Terms of Reference (TOR)
of first main activities have already been prepared and were discussed during negotiations, as well
as the phasing of these main activities.



- 13 -
SECTION B: PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
Project Implementation
28.   By ministerial resolution dated March 28, 1995, the Minister of Economic Development
established a Project Executing Unit (PEU) in NSE in charge of executing components " A" and " C"
(Legal and Regulatory Framework, and Institutional Strengthening) of the project. The Executive
Director of PEU was also appointed by another ministerial resolution dated April 17, 1995. He will be
reporting to the National Secretary of Energy. Furthermore, the NSE has already established four
small working groups during project preparation. These working groups are staffed with local
consultants supported, on an ad-hoc basis, by foreign consultants which are funded (initially by the
Japanese Grant Facility) by the PPF-727-0-BO. The first is in charge of carrying out component A.
The second is in charge of supporting the National Secretariat of Finance (NSOF) in the analysis of
petroleum prices deregulation and taxation. The third is in charge of carrying out component C which
concems the preparation for the restructuring and reorganization of the NSE, and organization of
HCS. Finally, the fourth group is still at its embryonic stage. It will be initially in charge of the
environmental unit organization study and will assist in the drafting of environmental regulations in
close coordination and cooperation with the NSONRE. This group will eventually include an
ecologist, a social scientist, engineers and a lawyer, all with experience in environmental aspects related
to the industry. It will lead to the establishment of an energy environmental unit in charge of
monitoring environmental matters not only for the hydrocarbon sector but also for power (with support
for the latter from the Power Reform and Capitalization Technical Assistance Project which is under
preparation). These working groups will be supported by long term advisors as well as short term
technical, financial and legal consultants.
29.   In addition, by ministerial resolution dated March 27, 1995 the Minister of Capitalization
established a Capitalization Unit (CAPU) and appointed its Executive Director. The Executive
Director will be reporting to the National Secretary of Capitalization in the Ministry of Capitalization.
CAPU is in charge of carrying out component " B" of the project and will be supported by long term
advisors as well as short term technical, financial and legal consultants. CAPU is physically located in,
and is receiving assistance from, YPFB but totally independent from YPFB's management as specified
by a special resolution of its Board of Directors dated May 11, 1995 which spells out clearly YPFB's
obligations toward the CAPU. Furthermore, CAPU will be advised by an Advisory Committee (AC)
which the Government will establish and which will be chaired by the Minister of Capitalization and
will include the Minister of Economic Development, the Minister of Finance, the National Secretary of
Energy, the National Secretary of Capitalization, the National Secretary of Natural Resources and
Environment and the President of YPFB. Figure 1 shows the Project Implementation
Organization Chart.
30.   Furthermore, to ensure successful and timely monitoring and control of project
implementation, agreement was reached on target date for project activities and performance indicators
shown in Schedule 1 (Summary of Project Activities and Timetable), and Table 2 (Project



- 14 -
Performance Indicators). Schedule C of the Memorandum of the President shows the IDA
supervision plan. CAPU and PEU will submit to IDA semi-annual progress reports, respectively,
indicating implementation status of each project component, identifying problems and actions taken.
These reports will form the basis for IDA supervision missions (para 39).
Project Preparation Status
31. With regard to the Component 'A" of the project, Legal and Regulatory Framework the
NC has already approved the two main building blocks that would serve as a basis for the capitalization
of the six main public enterprises, including YPFB: the Capitalization Law and the SIRESE Law.
Wide ranging preparatory activities for the preparation of the Hydrocarbons Law and the fiscal regime
for E&P were completed in March 1994 with the support of a Japanese Grant Facility for Yen 71
million, equivalent to US$550,000. Work continues in this area with the support of a PPF of US$1.0
million. In addition, during the technical negotiation of the CPAC the Bolivian Delegation agreed to
provide IDA with a draft Hydrocarbons Law which embodied basic principles which were agreed upon
and which are included as an annex in the Development Policy Letter. These basic principles are: (i)
free competition, and elimination of all monopolies and preferential treatment; (ii) rights of free
disposition of crude oil, natural gas and derivatives including freedom of import and export; (iii)
deregulation of prices except in the case of natural monopolies; (iv) the introduction of a fiscal regime
for upstream operations which is competitive with that of other countries in the region while meeting
Bolivia's fiscal needs; (v) elimination of direct and indirect barriers to entry, including the limited use of
concessions; ((vi) open access to pipelines for third parties, subject only to payment of a non-
discriminatory tarinff (vii) flexibility in contractual arrangements for exploration and production; (viii)
definition ofjurisdiction of HCS within the SIRESE; (ix) establishment of an appropriate independent
institution to promote E&P investments, negotiate and administer E&P contracts, manage E&P Data
Bank Unit, assume rights and obligations under existing and future operations contracts, and monitor
strategic investor's minimum investment commitment for the capitalized YPFB; (x) no controls on
remittance abroad of proceeds of sales whether local or foreign; (xi) stability of tax and exchange
regimes to E&P contractors for the duration of the contract or such changes as the contractor may
agree; (xii) authorization of measures necessary for the capitalization of YPFB; (xiii) existing contracts
will be honored and contractors will be offered the option of free disposition of natural gas and liquid
hydrocarbons; and (xiv) responsibility of environmental standards will be specified.
32.   With regard to the Component 'B" of the project, YPFB's Capitalization, two recent
ESMAP studies have been completed. The first dealt with several aspects: (i) upstream activities
(E&P) and more specifically strategy for selection of exploration areas for a capitalized YPFB; (ii) level
of investments in existing producing fields for a capitalized YPFB and definition of core fields to be
retained by the MEC(s); and (iv)operations contracts economics and legal aspects related to YPFB's
capitalization strategy. This study was presented to the Government in July 1994. The main
recommendations of the study were to: (i) create two separate E&P Business Units (BUs) or packages
that would include only core producing fields and few exploration blocks; (ii) maintain the existing
operations contracts with the State and not to grant to the Capitalized MEC the interest presently held
by the State; and (iii) establish four small investment packages which will include non core producing
fields and selected exploration blocks that would be offered for bids outside the capitalization process.



- 15 -
The second dealt with YPFB's Capitalization objectives, principles, criteria, options and strategy as
well as action plan. This study was based on interviews of 21 key ministers, national secretaries and
YPFB's top management. This study was presented to the Government and the President of Bolivia in
December 1994. It analyzed four packaging options which were defined along the line of traditional
BU which characterize the oil and natural gas industry. Each option considered the establishment of a
separate natural gas transmission company for the following reasons: (i) a large number of
interviewees recommended a separate gas transmission company; (ii) the objective of the Governnent
to make Bolivia a major player and a hub for the regional gas market and, transit and transport in the
Southern Cone and (iii) the need to have a credible open access transmission system which is
independent from the gas producers. Furthermore, the strategy involved a combination of
capitalization of core BUs with privatization of non essential BUs such as bulk storage of petroleum
products, rail and road transportation, marketing outlets, and services, particularly drilling and work
over. Option " A" includes one BU comprising one BU for E&P integrated with the two refineries
and the petroleum product pipelines network. Option " B" includes one separate BU for E&P, and
one separate BU comprising the two refineries and the petroleum product pipelines network. Option
" C" includes two separate BUs for E&P of nearly the same size with regard to reserves, with one
E&P BU integrated with the two refineries and the petroleum product pipeline network Finally, option
"D" includes two separate BUs for E&P and one separate BU comprising the two refineries and the
petroleum product pipelines network The study recommended option " D" combined with a flexible
bidding process based on the same option in order to let the market determine the future structure of
the industry but with the restriction that producers cannot acquire a majority shareholding in the gas
transmission system.
33.   IDA endorsed the study conclusions and recommendations. In particular, IDA has expressed
to the Government that the option to capitalize YPFB "as is" i.e., as an integrated company, is the least
attractive when compared to all other options using the objectives and criteria of YPFB's
capitalization identified during the interviews. More specifically, IDA considers that this option should
not be considered because of the need to: (i) reduce the Capitalized YPFB's predominant market
position and introduce competition at all phases of the industry; (ii) reduce risks (commercial and
political) associated with the transformation of a quasi-state monopoly to a quasi-private monopoly;
(iii) increase the chances of success of the bidding process by offering more than one package, thus
giving more choices to the bidders to participate in the process, (iv) increase the number of potential
winners which will bring new technology and know how; (v) optimize capitalization value; and (vi)
add more credibility to the open access gas transmission system presently considered by the
Government. In addition, the combination of capitalization of core BUs with privatization of non core
BUs and the proceed from the sales would provide financial resources to set up a fund in order to
cover certain capitalization costs. Finally, IDA endorsed the Study recommendation to maintain the
existing operations contracts with the State.
34.   On April 1995, the Government submitted to IDA a letter in which it presented two
alternatives which were considered: (i) alternative I which is very sinrilar to option D discussed above;
and (ii) altemative 2 which includes three separate BU: one single E&P but integrated with natural gas
transmission business unit, a separate refining BU with oil and product pipeline, and a marketing and
distribution BU which will not be privatized as recommended by the consultant but capitalized. IDA,



- 16 -
in its response, indicated that alternative 2 will not be appropriate. With regard to Operations
Contracts, the Consultant recommended that they should remain with the State in order to maintain
stable long term government revenues. In the same letter mentioned above, the Government endorsed
this recommendation. The investment bank which will assist the Government in the finalization of its
capitalization strategy is on board and a decision is expected soon.
35.   With regard to the Component " C" of the project, Institutional Strengthening, NSE has
started preliminary reorganization work of the Secretariat using the various working groups it has
established (para. 28). However, this work is dependent on the enactment by the NC of the
Hydrocarbons Law which will determine how the sector will be organized and consequently how to
reorganize the Secretariat. Furthermore, with the technical assistance of CIDA, NSE and YPFB has
initiated preliminary work for the organization and establishment of the Data Bank Unit and the HCS
as well as for a two comprehensive environmental audits as well as the preliminary organization of the
HCS.
Procurement and Disbursement
36.   Procurement. The Procurement Unit which was established in MOC will be carrying out
procurement for CAPU for goods and services included in component " B". This unit does not need
any technical assistance under the project because it is already receiving technical assistance form the
Regulatory Reform and Capitalization Technical Assistance Credit which is disbursing. Furthermore, a
Supreme Decree enacted recently authorizes the MOC to procure directly under IDA guidelines but
without resorting to the Procurement Agencies and the fairly lengthy government procedure. PEU will
carry out its own procurement for goods and services included in components " A" and " C"
independently of CAPU, but under a different and new Supreme Decree enacted in April 1995 which
simplified the procedure by eliminating the procurement agencies. If needed, it will receive some
support form the procurement unit of MOC.
37.   The project will involve only two categories of procurement: (i) goods to be used for
implementation of capitalization and institutional strengthening components such as office equipment
(copying and fax machines), office furniture and materials, computer hardware and software and two
four-wheel drive (4WD) vehicles for the future environmental unit of NSE; and (ii) consultancy
services for: (a) the drafting of legal and regulatory framework; (b) the pre-capitalization studies and
capitalization transaction; and (c) the strengthening of NSE, including training of personnel. The
procurement of goods which the IDA credit will finance will take place according to: (i) International
Shopping for the procurement of office equipment, computer hardware and software and two 4WD
vehicles for an estimated amount of US$315,000 which, to the extent possible, will be packaged in
contracts of US$25,000 or more each but not exceeding US$ 100,000; and (ii) Local Shopping for
goods such as office furniture, supplies and materials, in packages of less than US$25,000 per contract.
Goods will be procured in accordance with the provisions of the " Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and credits (January 1995). The selection and hiring of consultants will follow
procedures consistent with "Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
(August 1981)". Contracts for goods will be subject to IDA post review requiring submission of full
documentation promptly after their signing and prior to delivery to IDA of the first application for



- 17 -
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account for ail contracts valued at US$25,000 or more, and ex-
post during supervision mission and on a random basis for all contracts valued less than US$25,000.
For consultancy contracts with consulting firms, valued at less than US$60,000 and with individual
consultants valued at less than US$30,000, IDA prior review will cover only TORs with requirement
to use model Letter of Invitation. Based on the above arrangements, IDA prior review will cover
about 80 percent of the contracts which the Credit will finance; which is satisfactory, given the nature
of the items to be financed.
38.   Disbursement. As detailed in Schedule B attached to the Memorandum of the President and
Table 3 in the Technical Annex disbursements would be made against: (a) 100 percent of net of tax
costs of local and foreign consultants; (b) 100 percent of training expenses; (c) 100 percent of CIF cost
of imported goods and of the ex-factory cost of local manufactured goods; and (d) 85% of the cost of
locally procured goods. Disbursements may be made against Statement of Expenditures (SOE's) for
the following expenditures: (a) contracts for goods valued US$25,000 equivalent or less; (b) contracts
with firms for services including technical assistance and training for US$60,000 equivalent or less and
contracts valued at US$30,000 or less per individual. For all contracts that exceed the amount
indicated above, frll documentation is required. The supporting documents for SOE's will be retained
by NSE and MOC, and will be available for review by supervision missions upon request. All other
requests for disbursements will require full documentation. Two Special Accounts will be established
in the Central Bank, one for MOC and the other for NSE. The total authorized allocation for both
Special Accounts would be US$900,000 to be shared one third and two third between PEU and
CAPU, respectively, with an initial deposit to be made of US$150,000 and US$350,000, respectively,
and a full amount authorized allocation to be released when disbursements reach a level of US$1.0
million and US$2.0 million, respectively. These amounts allocated for each Special Account and the
initial deposit to each account were confirmed during negotiations. Disbursements will be made under
authorized signatures from a designated representative of the Borrower. Retroactive financing for
consultancy services and related equipment procured under IDA guidelines after September 30, 1994
(but not more than one year after the date of signing) is proposed up to US$ 1.0 million equivalent to
about 10 percent of the proposed amount of the credit. During negotiations, Government assurance
were sought that withdrawal applications for replenishment of the Special Accounts will be prepared by
the irnplementing agencies in accordance with IDA policies and procedures. The project is expected
to be completed on June 30, 1998 and the closing date is December 31, 1998.
39.   Auditing and Reporting. Records and auditing will be the responsibility of each unit, the
PEU and CAPU, which will establish separate accounts for each component and will monitor all
expenditures financed by this project. The Bank which will be chosen will maintain separate records
for all transactions under this credit. Project Accounts, the two Special Accounts and Statements of
Expenditures will be audited each year by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA within 6 months
after the end of the fiscal year. In addition to financial auditing, PEU and CAPU will prepare separate
full progress reports and submit them to IDA every six month within the fourth week following the end
of each semester. This report will detail all project and related activities, report on the progress in
relation to agreed schedules and project milestones, and identify any problems which may have been
encountered and which could adversely affect the overall impact of the project. Detailed reporting



- 18 -
requirements will be established during the first supervision mission. These auditing and reporting
requirements were confirmed during negotiations.



- 19 -
ATTACHMENT



- 20 -
ATTACHMENT 1
BOLIVIA
HYDROCARBON SECTOR REFORM AND CAPITALIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Environmental Aspects: Issues and Action Plan
Introduction
I .    Environmental sub-components of the Hydrocarbon Sector Reform and Capitalization
Technical Assistance Project will help identify existing environmental problems in the industry and
provide measures to address them. This will include promulgation of environmental regulations,
definition of standards, norms and procedures, and strengthening of government institutions to monitor
activities in all phases of the sector. Furthermore, this will help improve environmental and risk
assessment and mitigate hazards affiliated with the industry as a whole and also with the capitalized
YPFB.
2.    Environmental sub-components will increase the efficiency of the NSE and the MOSDE in
environmental assessment of hydrocarbon-related activities, proposed public enterprise reforms and
private sector development. The Mining Sector is being reviewed under a project called
Environmental Technical Assistance Project and a new TA is under preparation. This experience will
assist the hydrocarbon sector. The cost of this sub-component is about 10.4 percent of total base cost.
Major Environmental Issues Affecting the Hydrocarbon Sector
3 .    Issues of concem which were identified by the Environmental Diagnosis which was carried in
February 1993 are: (i) very weak capability of the Environmental Unit (Comision Ejecutiva de
Seguridad Industrial y Control Ambiental - CESICA) in YPFB and extremely limited resources to
carry out its duties; (ii) the pressure to discover and produce rapidly to meet liquid demand; (iii) weak
institutional capability to carry out environmental impact assessment (EIA) and audits; (iv) the gas
export contract with Brazil and impact of the gas pipeline; (v) awareness-building and acceptance of
the environmental dimension in operations; (vi) access to colonists created by seismic and exploratory
drilling programs; and (vii) the lack of clear regulatory capability and therefore authority at the central
govemment level. Minor issues affecting the sector are: (i) gas flaring (although economically very
costly); (ii) impact on indigenous people and protected areas; (iii) above-ground pipelines and risk of
oil spill contamination, (iv) non availability of materials and appropriate equipment to deal with
environmental problems; (v) oil spills in general; and (vi) lead in gasoline.
4.    In general, the environmental performance of YPFB requires improvements in the areas of
communication with other agencies, and in the performance of exploration, production and storage,
refining and processing, transportation (gathering and distribution), and commercialization.
5.    Existing Legislation, Regulations, Norms and Standards. Key aspects of legislation are the
Environmental Law (Ley de Medio Ambiente) of 1992, and the Hydrocarbons Law of 1990 (Ley de



- 21 -
Hidrocarburos). The latter is being revised with assistance from the proposed Credit. The
Environmental Law is considered a strong, well-developed law upon which environmental regulations,
standards, and norms can be drafted and promulgated. Both laws give the authority to the Secretariat
of Environment (Secretaria Nacional de Medio Ambiente --SENMA), which was changed to the
Ministry of Sustainable Development and Environment (MOSDE), to review and approve all
environmental impact assessments (EIA), and to the Ministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons which was
changed to National Secretariat of Energy (NSE) to develop environmental regulations, norms and
standards for the hydrocarbon sector.
6.    Already a preliminary draft set of regulations to be promulgated as well as draft operational
guidelines for the exploration, perforation, production, transport, industrialization, and
conmmercialization of the sector, were developed at a seminar which included the participation of
MOSDE (Calidad Ambiental), YPFB (CESICA) and the private petroleum industry (Diamond
Shamrock, Tesoro, Perez-Compac, Chevron, Mobil, Texaco, Phillips, Maxus, and Petro-Canada).
This work was incorporated in a document entitled "Environmental Regulations for the Petroleum
Industry".
7.    Environmental Impact Assessment. MOSDE is now finalizing Bolivia's first EIA
regulations. In the future, most of the activities and particularly major project will have an EIA. The
credit will provide the necessary technical and financial resources to assist the future Environmental
Unit to ensure that these EIA are carried out and presented to NSE as well as to MOSDE for review,
recommnendations and final approval.
8.    Indigenous People. The Government is aware and concerned about the potential impact that
inadequately addressing environmental problems associated with petroleum operations will have on
indigenous people( as well as ecology), and on attracting further private investments in exploration.
While draft regulations and operational guidelines have been developed with the help of consultants
under a previous IDA project, there is a risk that these may be difficult to implement given the scarcity
of resources of the implementing agency. Therefore the project will address these issues and will
provide training and consultant support to the Environmental Unit that will be established in NSE as
part of this credit.
Environment Audit and YPFB Capitalization
9.    Clarifying environmental responsibilities and liabilities in the restructuring process helps to
improve investment decisions and the long-term viability of the investments, and to minimize future
health and economic risks from poor environmental management practices. The environmental audit
will take into account the ecological and social issues such as social impacts from road construction,
seismic and drilling operations and interaction of work crews with the local and indigenous community
who are vulnerable to the loss of traditional livelihoods. CAPU (in conjunction with NSE and YPFB),
has commissioned two comprehensive environmental audits of all YPFB facilities and operations,
especially those that will be included as part of the capitalization for private participation. These audits
are carried out by two outside consultants and are funded by the CIDA and US Trade Development
Agency, respectively. They will cover environmental problems from (i) past operating practices; (ii)
current operating practices; and (iii) design-related issues. A Legal counsel firm will review these



- 22 -
audits to determine legal obligations of each party concerned with regard to rnitigation measures and
plan which will be recommended by the audit (see para. 10 of this attachment). The Audit reports will
provide a baseline from which investors and lenders can make an improved judgment conceming risk
and appropriate mitigation. It will also help in preparing documents for bids and contracts, and can
also provide some general information on the process of developing better environmental practices in
the hydrocarbon sector. The environmental audit will include:
(a)    Assessing the scope of existing environmental problems from past operations and
identifying the remedial measures to be taken.
(b)    Detennining how and when these remedial measures are to be taken and assigning the
responsibility for these measures.
(c)   In the case of refineries and wells that will continue in production, upgrading
environmental management and defining clear operational guidelines and procedures.
(d)   In the case of assets that will be permanently closed and abandoned (including
exploration and development wells), applying clear procedures to prevent potential
future contamination.
(e)    Defining appropriate guidelines and/or legal obligations if there are no specific national
legal requirements that address the above issues.
Laboratory and Monitoring Capacities
10.   Increasing laboratory and monitoring capabilities is fundamental to improving the technical,
scientific, and legal aspects of environmental management in Bolivia. The market for these services
will gradually increase as environmental management grows, particularly if govemment institutions
generally rely on private services. Making the needed improvements will require strengthening both
technical and human resources. This credit will not finance purchase of laboratory equipment nor the
establishment of an environmental laboratory. However, laboratory services will be contracted out to
existing private laboratories. In addition, IDA is preparing an Environment, Industry and Mining
Project which has, inter-alia, two relevant components for the project: laboratory upgrading and
remediation fund. One of the objectives of this new project is to provide assistance in the remediation
of pollution stocks in the mining and the hydrocarbon sectors. The laboratory upgrading would help
improve quality of laboratory testing and calibrating in Bolivia. Hence, services from these laboratories
will be available to the environmental unit in NSE. This environmental unit will be working in close
coordination and cooperation with the Environmental Quality Control Unit of NSONRE which will be
providing guidance to the unit. Furthermore, the environmental unit will procure two 4WD jeeps with
funds from the credit to have the mobility to patrol E&P sites and operations and to take and test
samples of effluent discharge from oil and gas plants.



- 23 -
Description of the Objectives of the Environmental Action Plan
11.   Perhaps the most critical element to successful environmental protection is inter-ministerial
collaboration and coordination. The President of YPFB, with the signatures of two Vice Presidents,
should announce a corporate commitment to environmental management on the part of YPFB, as an
integral part of operations.
12.   The project will not provide technical assistance to strengthen CESICA because it was
considered that: (i) it will not be efficient to do so just prior to capitalization; (ii) the new strategic
investors that will take over will know better how to reorganize the NMLEC in order to address all
aspects related to environment. However, in order to improve in the short term, the environmental
capability of YPFB, the following is recommended:
*  The environmental responsibility should remain in one division of the company, with
procedural links requiring its involvement in the operations of the other divisions. CESICA
should maintain technically competent leadership, and human and equipment resources
should be expanded.
-  A written corporate environmental policy should be developed at YPFB as soon as
possible. A program of awareness-building be prepared and implemented. This should be
followed by a program of policy and procedures development which senior executives
would help to formulate. YPFB should require the attendance of CESICA at all corporate
policy meetings, and that CESICA be represented at all initial meetings for project planning
and financing.
*  YPFB should initiate an institutional development plan for CESICA covering the next 3
years.
*  Expand and adopt the draft set of regulations and operational guidelines that were
developed at a seminar referred to above in para. 6.
*  CESICA, in conjunction with the NSE should have the mandate and resources to address
the environmental ramifications of the gas export contract to Brazil.
*  A detailed environmental training plan should be developed for NSE.
13.   Relative to national environmental objectives, the following is recommended:
* The environmental standards adopted by the hydrocarbon industry in Bolivia should be
those recognized internationally with a phased expectancy for meeting them over a period
that should be agreed upon among the NSE, the NSONRE and the petroleum industry. At
the end of this period, the industry should be fully operational at international standards,
with concomitant obligations.



- 24 -
*  The environmental sub-component should assist the NSE to develop an Environmental
Unit in a form of a small end efficient entity, and strengthen NSE capability to develop
policy, prepare guidelines and regulations, review applications. This unit should be
managed by a Technical Director who would be supported by a chemical engineer, an
environmental engineer, an ecologist, a social scientist, and an environmental lawyer. The
project will initially provide long term consultants in these areas to establish the unit and
provide on the job training to its staff
*  At least four long term consultants should be provided to the Environment Unit to develop
hydrocarbon norms and standards in close collaboration with the NSONRE of the
MOSDE and to launch the unit activities.
*  The MOSDE should be the institution in charge of enforcing all environmental regulations,
norms and standards and should work in close cooperation and coordination with the NSE
to achieve this goal.
Relations between NSE and MOSDE
14.   The MOSDE approach to environmental matters is based on a decentralization principle which
will give the authority to each productive sector of the economy to take the lead in establishing the
specific legal and regulatory framework as specified by the sector laws and the Environmental Law as
well as the institutions they need to monitor environmental aspects specific to their respective sector.
Based on this approach, MOSDE will not interfere but will be enforcing environmental laws and
regulations, and providing assistance through the laboratories it has already established and the
technical services which are under its jurisdiction. Consequently, MOSDE indicated that it is the NSE
responsibility to establish an environmental unit which will be in charge of monitoring all environmental
aspects of all activities in the hydrocarbon sector as well as in the power sector. However, it will be its
responsibility to enforce environmental regulations, norms and standards. Within that framework, there
vill be a permanent consultation and coordination between its own departments and those of NSE, as
reflected in the draft Development Credit Agreement under Article III, section 3.01 (c). More
specifically, the Government will: (i) ensure that, from time to time and as needed, environmental
regulations are developed, (ii) establish mechanisms for reviewing environmental audits for existing
facilities of, and operations by YPFB and other oil companies currently operating in Bolivia and in the
fui.ture, for carrving environmental impact assessments for all new or rehabilitated facilities; (iii) ensure
that coordination between all Government agencies involved with environmental matters for the sector;
(iv) ensure that the various responsibilities for monitoring environmental aspects of the sector are
clearly delineated for the various agencies involved; and (v) maintain and consolidate the group of
personnel, which wNill become the nucleus for the environmental unit that will be established in NSE.
Finally, MOSDE indicated that it will maintain an open dialogue and close collaboration with the oil
companies and use their expertise and experience in other countries in order to draft satisfactory
environmental regulations and operating guidelines, and establish good and healthy working relations
with the industry., and (vi) enforcing environmental regulations, norms and standards.



- 25 -
SCHEDULE, TABLES AND FIGURES



- 26 -                                             SCHEDULE 1
Page 1of3
BOLIVIA
HYDROCARBON SECTOR REFORM AND CAPITALIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Summarv of Project Activities and Timetable
Main            Project Sub Component                                  Expected Output                                 Timing Targets
Objectives                Activities                                                                                                         I
|4A Legal and      Regulations to Hydrocarbons      Regulations to Hydrocarbons Law and consistent with SIRESE law.       Start:
Regulatory         Law                              The regulations will deal, inter-alia with the folloxving: i) organizational    3rd quarter 1995
Framework                                          structure under Part C. I of Project; ii) defunition of program, iii) procedure   Completion:
to request and select exploration area: iv) modalities for free access to pipe    4th quarter 1995
line; v) technical and security nonns and standards; vi) fair market value;
vii) amortization schedules; viii) modalities to get concessions contracts
and other; ix) right of way and occupation of land; x) construction of LPG
bottling plants; xi) construction and operation of service stations; xii)
construction of oil blending plant; xiii) construction and operation of
petroleum products storage plant; xiv) importation modalities of petroleum
products; xv) control board of operations contracts; xvi) modalities and
technical specifications for pipeline construction and operation; and xvii)
modalities for storage and operation of compressed natural gas.
Model Contracts                 * Draft model E&P contracts dealing with concessions as well as new type  Star:
of contracts, if any.                                                 3rd quarter 1995
* Draft procedure on how an oil company can apply for an exploration  Completion:
area.                                                                 4th quarter 1995
Environmental Regulations,      * Regulations that would address the main following problems and       Start:
Standards and Norms             management i) pollution control; ii) spills; iii) oil sumps; iv) access road  3rd quarter 1995
construction; v) ecological aspects; vi) social and indigenous assessment
aspects; vii) service crews; viii) dwellings; ix) consultants with local people
and authorities; x) coordinatiig NSE and NSONRE, xi) production       Completion:
facilities; xii) construction of pipelines; xiii) air pollution; xiv) water  4th quarter 1995
pollution; xv) solid and hazardous waste management etc.
Natural Gas Distribution        * Clarify consistency and status of existing concessions with the new  Start:
Legal Aspects                   Hydrocarbons Law and its natural gas provisions and regulations.       3rd quarter 1995
* Identify and define YPFB legal ohl)igatiun, arid implications as a result of   Completion:
YPFB capitalization strategy.                                         4th quarter 1995
* Identify and define financial liabilities any other legalities of YPFB.  _     _
B. Capitalization    Technical and Financial       * Select a consultant firm(s) specialized in the petroleum industry in order  Start:
of YPFB           Valuation of YPFB's Assets      to have a technical valuation of all YPFB's assets and existing facilities  3rd quarter 1995
with the aim of indicating its present technical status, quality and
maintenance and fitsure investment requirements.                      Completion:
* Financial valuation will be made using various methods in order to obtain   4th quarter 1995
a range of values for each asset of YPFB.
Business Unit Organization and   * Specialized consulting firm to define the various business units (BU) in  Start:
Cost Centers Study             the light of the capitalization strategy adopted by the Governemnt and  3rd quarter 1995
define the various cost centers related to these BUs in order to have a better
idea of costs and prepare for the capitalization.                     Completion:
4th quarter 1995
Personnel Optimization and      * The study will follow-up on a pilot study which is already carried out. It   Start:
Issues Follow-up Study          is expected that a complete profile and evaluation of the persomiel will be  3rd quarter 1995
made, and an optimization of the personnel be made on a basis of job
evaluations for each BU using as a basis practices in the petroleum   Completion:
industry. Recommendations on specific issues and of an action plan to            10 Tt   95
rationalize personnel prior to capitalization.
Debt Issues Study               * This study will analyze YPFB's debt, its structure and components and to    Start:
determine their impact on capitalization process and define how much debt   3rd quarter 1995
would be allocated and how to each MECs prior to capitalizationi and in the   Completion:
light of the capitalization strategy.                                 4th quarter 1995
Follow up on Environmental      * This study will follow-up on the already commissioned two in-depth   Start:
Audit and Mitigation Plan       audits of past and current operation practices and what remedial steps are  3rd quarter 1995
needed. It will also analyze ecological and social aspects related to remote
rural areas with the specific aim of defining environmental concems and  Completion:
assigning responsibilities for such concems, and determining which of  4th quarter 1995
these responsibilities should be included, and how, in the subscription and
other legal capitalization agreements which will be signed by the
Govemment and the Strategic Investor(s)



-27 -                                               SCHEDULE I
.________                                                                                                       Page  2 of 3
Mlain           Project Sub Component                                   Expected Output                                  Timing Targets
Objectives                Activities            _
Follow-up Inventorv Study         Specialized consulting firm to follow-up on an already commissioned   Start:
pilot study of the refining warehouses by expanding this work to all    3rd quarter 1995
warehouses in order to determine what material and equipment should be
kept and what should be disposed of and how in order to have a realistic  Completion:
l_______________                                     and meaningful balance sheet inventory account.                         4th quarter 1995
Legal Aspects of Pre-           * Includes the main aspects: i) specialized local firm to ensure that YPFB's   Start:
capitalization                  has title, concessions, agreement authorizations, right of way etc. for all its   i) 3rd quarter 1995,
assets, activities, and facilities prior to capitalization: ii) legal advisor to  ii) 3rd quarter 1995,
assist in MEC creation and, eventually, in preparing all pre-qualification
and request for proposed bidding documents, evaluating offers and       Completion:
finalizing legal documents and agreements sanctioning capitalization   i) 4th quarter 1995
transactions.                                                           ii) 2nd quarter 1996;
Establishment of Data Rooms     - Specialized firm to assist investment bank in establishing and managing  Start:
data rooms that would be made available in Bolivia and in a few key cities    3rd quarter 1995
to provide all relevant information and related services to potential
strategic investors interested in the capitalization of YPFB.           Completion:
4th quarter 1995
Information Campaign            Specialized local firm to launch an information campaign aimed at       Start:
informing YPFB's personnel and trade unions and increasing public       3rd Quarter 1995
awareness about the capitalization of MECs.                             Completion
Ist Quarter 1996
Preparation of Marketu:g          Marketing advisor which will assist the Goveriment and work in close  Start:
Strategy and Road Shows         coordination with investment bank to finalize marketing strategy and    3rd quarter 1995
participate in road shows with additional support to finalize them.
Completion:
4th quarter 1996
C. Institutional   Part C. 1 of Project              Specialized firm to carry out study on how to re-organize structure and  Start:
strengthening                                       design nucleus and staffing requirements with local and foreign consultants   3rd quarter 1995
and start up of operations.
Set up these entities to start operations.                            Comp-.in.l
Istauarter 1997
Data Bank Unit Organization      Specialized firm to design structure, initial staffing and set up as wcli as  Start:
Study, Staffing and Set-up and    start up of operations of this unit.                                  3rd quarter 1995
Start-up of Operations.                                                                                                        l
Completion:l
2nd quarter 1997
Environmental Unit              * Initial staffing and set up of a xvorking group as well as start up of'  Start:
Organization Study, Statfing    operations of this unit including small laboratory on the basis of an initial  3rd quarter 1995
and Setup, and Start-up of      organization study to be carried out by a specialized firm and in close
Operations.                     coordination with NSONRE that would lead to establishment of an         Completion:
environment unit.                                                       Ist quarter 1998
Hydrocarbon Superintendency    * Initial staffing and set up as well as start up of operations of this unit  Start:
organization study, staffing and    which will be part of SIRESE and which will be based on an initial  3rd quarter 1995
setup, and start up of          organization study to be carried out by a specialized firm.
operations.                                                                                             Completion:
Ist quarter 1997
Exploration and Production      - Organization of a E&P campaign with assistance of a specialized firm  Start:
Promotion Campaign              which will prepare a promotion package, and assist in the licensing round.    Ist quarter 1996
Completion:
2nd quarter 1997
Training of NSE 1'ersonnel      *Training of personnel in i) monitoring of petroleum activity and       Start:
concessions according to the legislation and regulation in force; ii)   4th quarter 1995
negotiating with oil companies; (iii) enforcing technical and safety
regulations, (iv) implementing E&P promotional campaign (v)             Completion:
management, inventory (and filing) of data bank; and vi) monitoring of  2nd quarter 1998
environmental aspects related to the petroleum industry and carrying it
samplc for analysis.



BOLIVIA
HYDROCARBON SECTOR REFORM AND CAPITALIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Project Timetable
Entity                Project Component                 1995          1996              1997            1998
3Q 4Q  IQ  2Q  3Q 4Q  IQ  2Q  3Q  4Q  1Q  2Q  3Q  4_
1. NSE    A. Legal and Regulatory Framework
Regulations to Hydrocarbons law
Model contracts for concessions & others
Environmental regulations, standards & norms
Natural Gas Dist. Co.Legal Aspects
C.Institutional Strengthening
DGH/ENTE org. study set-up and staffing           _        _        _
& start-up
Data Bank Unit org, study, set-up and        __
Staffing and Start-up
Environmental Org. study, set-up and                              .              _        _  .
Staffing and Start-up
HCS Superintendency
E&P promotion campaign                             _      _   _   _
Training of NSE personnel                          _           _
Purchase of off equipment, furnitures                                  .
Pc hardware and two 4WD vehicles
2. MOC   B. YPFB's Capitalization
Pre-capitalization phase
Capitalizationi phase
Purchase of Office equipment, furniture and
PC hardware and software
_____________________________~ ~      ~      ~       ~      ~ -C-   



- 29 -
BOLIVIA
HYDROCARBON SECTOR DEREGULATION AND CAPITALIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Table 1: Summary of Project Costs by Beneficiary Agency
(In 000's US Dollars)
Beneficiary Institutions Activities, and Costs        Local   Foreign   Total
1. National Secretariat of Energy                                  2,388    3,532    5,920
A. Legal and Regulatory Framework                                    240      360      600
* Regulations Implementing the Hydrocarbons Law                      120      180      300
* Model Contracts for concessions and others                          40       60      100
* Environmental Regulations Standards and Norms                       40       60      10(
* Natural Gas Distribution Companies Legal Aspects                    40       60      100
B. Institutional Strengthening                                     2,148    3,172    5,320
* DGH/ENTE Org. Study, Set-up & Staffing, & Start Up                 600      900    1,500
* Data Bank Unit Org. Study, Set-up & Staffing & Start-up            400      600    1,000
* Env. Org. Study, Set-up & Staffing, & Start-up                     200      300      300
* HCS Org. Study, Set-up & Staffing, & Start-up                      360      490      850
* E&P Promotion Campaign                                              80      120      200
* Training of NSE Personnel                                          240      360      600
* Purchase of Off. equip. & furniture, Computers, & 2 4WD vehicles   168      252      420
* Administrative Support to PEU                                      100      150      250
2. Ministry of Capitalization                                      1,772    2,668    4,460
A. Pre-capitalization Phase                                        1,692     2,568    4,260
* Technical and Financial Valuation of YPFB Assets                   280      420      700
* Business Unit Org. and Cost Centers Study                          120      180      300
* Follow-up on Pilot Personnel Optimization Study                     80      150      230
* Debt Issues Study                                                  120      180      300
* Follow-up on Env. Audit and Mitigation Plan                         40       60      100
* Follow-up on Pilot Inventory Study                                 160      240      400
* Administrative Support to CAPU                                      60       90      150
* Legal Aspects of Pre-capitalization                                400      600    1,000
* Establishment of Data Room and Operation                            80       120     200
* Public Information Campaign                                        320      480      800
* Purchase of Office Equipment, & Computers hardware                  32       48       80
B. Capitalization Phase                                               80      120      200
* Preparation of Marketing Strategy                                   80      120      200
3. Price Contingency                                                 360      560      920
4. PPF Refinancing                                                    _      2,000    2,000
5. TOTAL                                                           4,520     8,780   13,300



BOLIVIA
HYDROCARBON SECTOR REFORM AND CAPITALIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Table 2: Project Performance Indicators
DEADLINE FOR                                  MONITOR
BEGIN             MONITORING               MINIMUM                                         ING             EXECUTION
PROJECT SECTOR AND    EVIDENCE OF PERFORMANCE    MONITORING                                    FREQUENCY               ACCEPTABLE             PERFORMANCE   RESPONSI   RESPONSIBILITY
COMPONENT                                                                                                       PERFORMANCE               STANDARDS              BILITY
I. NATIONAL SECRETARIAT OF ENERGY                                                                                                                                                                           l
Hydrocarbon (HC) Law           Publication of HC Law in Official Gazette   Oct. 1, 1993        Monthly                September 30, 1995      As per CPAC Dev.        Working        National Secretary of
Credit Agreement       Group No. I    Energy (NSE)
(DCA) and Dev.         In NSE
Policy Letter (DPL)
Model Contract Drafting        Approved model ready to be used          As of final draft of   Monthly                December 31, 1995       As per contract with    As above       National Secretariat of
HC Law                                                                consultants                           Energy
Regulations Implementing HC    Enactment of Regulations by NSE and      As of final draft of   Monthly                December 31, 1995       As above                As Above       National Secretariat of
Law including Environmental    NSONRE                                   HC Law                                                                                                       Energy
Natural Gas Distribution       Agreement on amended concessions,        As of passage of HC    Monthly                December 31, 1995       As per program          Working        National Secretarial of
Companies Legal Aspects        clarification of YPFB position, and      Law                                                                   agreed and HC Law       Group No 1.   Energy
enactment of regulations by the NSE                                                                            and DCA                of NSE
Organization Structure Set Up    Publication of HC Law in Official Gazette   As of passage ofthe  Quarterly           December 31, 1995       Asper CPAC DCA          Workinig       National Secretariat of
and Start- up                                                           Law                                                                   and DPL                Group No. 3    Energy
of NSE
DGH Strengthening and          Resolution Ministerial reorganizing the  As of passage of HC    Quarterly              March 31, 1997          As Above and HSRC    Working           National Secretariat of
Reorganization in NSE          NSE                                      Law                                                                   DCA                    Group No. 4    Energy
of NSE                                l
Environmental Unit Set up and   Resolution Ministerial creating the Energy   As of passage of HC  Quarterly           March 31, 1998          As per program to be    As Above       National Secretariat of
Start up in NSE                Environmental Unit                       Law and enactment                                                     agreed during first                    Energy
of related environ.                                                   supervision mission
HC Superintendency             Appointment of Superintendent for HSC    As of passage HC       Quarterly              March 31, 1997          As per CPAC and        Working         National Secretariat of
(SIRESE) Design & set up       and Enactment of Regulations establishing   Law and enactment                                                  HSRC DCA               Group No. 3    Energy
I HSC                                      of related regulation                                                                        of NSE       __l
2. YPFB's CAPITALIZATION                                                                                                                                                                                    l
YPFB's Pre-capitalization     Completion ofrelevant studies and         As of credit           Monthly               December31, 1995         As per consultants     CAPU           National Secretary of
Studies                        Approval of final reports and related    effectiveness                                                         contract                               Capitalization
output                                                                                                         and per CPAC DCA                                             l
YPFB's Capitalization          Approval of capitalization strategy and  After hiring of        Monthly                March 31, 1996          As per consultants'    CAPU            National Secretary of
Implementation                 signature of relevant agreements by      Investment Bank and                                                   contract                               Capitalization
investors                                Legal Advisor                                                         and per CPAC DCA                 _



- 31 -
BOLIVIA
HYDROCARBON SECTOR REFORM AND CAPITALIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Table 3: Procurement Arrangements by Beneficiary and Estimated IDA Disbursement
(In 000's US Dollars)
Procurement by Category &             IDA Financed Procurement a/
Beneficiary                        IS             Other           N.LF. Proc. b/       Total
A. Goods                                        (315)                                      185          500
1. NSE                                         (260)                                       160          420
(a) Computer Hardware                         (45)                                                     45
(b) Computer Software                          (90)                                                    90
(c) Office Equipment                           (45)                  =                  =              45
(d) Off. Furniture & Materials                                                          160           160
(e) Two 4WD Vehicles                           (80)                                                    80
2. MOC                                           (55)                  =                    25            80
(a) Computer Hardware                         (18)                                                     18
(b) Computer Software                         (25)                                                     25
(c) Office Equipment                                                 =                   25            25
(d) Off. Furniture & Materials                (12)                                                     12
B. Consulting Services                                             (10,325)              2,475        12,800
.1 NSE                                                              (5,475)              1,485        6,960
l   Technical Assistance                                            (5,220)                890        6,110
l   Administrative Support & Training                                 (255)                595          850
2. MOC                                                              (4,850)                990        5,840
l   Technical Assistance                                            (4,800)                890        5,690
l   Administrative Support                                             (50)                100          150
TOTAL:                                           (315)             (10,325)              2,660       13,300
Notes: Figures in parentheses indicate amounts financed by IDA
a/ Internaional Shopping (IS) using IDA guidelines will be used for goods such as office equipment (copying and fax
machines). computer hardware and software, and two 4WD vehicles for an estimated amount of US$315,000
packaged in contracts of US$25,000 or more but not exceeding US$100,000. "Other" IDA procurement include
procurement of consultants according to IDA guidelines. For goods, prior review ex-post for all contracts valued at
US$25,000 or more and ex-post during supervision and on a random basis for all contracts valued less than
US$25,000. For consultancy contracts with firms valued at less than US$60,000 and with individual consultants
valued at US$30,000, IDA prior review will cover only TORs with requirement to use model letter of invitation.
b/ Means non IDA financed procurement for (i) locally procurement of office equipment and material under local
procedures; and (ii) locally-financed procurement of consultants under local procedures; and for the payment of local
taxes.



- 32-
Estimated IDA Disbursements
Amount of Credit
Allocated         Percentage of Expenditures
Category              (000's US Dollars)           to be Financed
Goods                                 315      100% of Foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-
PEU                                  260    factory cost) and 85% for other
CAPU                                 55    items procured locally
2.     Consultancy Services                 7,765     100% of expenditures net of taxes
Including Technical        PEU      4,195
Assistance, Training, and  CAPU    3,570
Administrative Support
3.     Refinancing of the PPF              2,000
4.     Un-allocated                          560
Total                        10,640
Estimated IDA Disbursements
( In 000's US Dollars)
IDA Fiscal Year      1995        1996      1997     1998
Annual                     3,000      6,000      840      800
Cumulative                 3,000      9,000    9,840   10,640



BOLIVIA
HIDROCARBON SECTOR REFORM AND CAPITALIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Figure 1. Project Implementation Organization Chart
A. Capitalization of YPFP                                                                                      B. Sector Reform
President
of Bolivia
Advisory Commitee
Chairman: Ministry ot Capitalizaton
- -embers
-Minisli&of Economic D6evlopmeir
Nabonal Secfetary of Capitalization
National Secietdiy of Energy
National Secietary of Natural Resources
and Enmronment
President of YPFB_
in ister of                   -Minister of Econ
Capitalization                                                                     Development
National Secretary of                            YPI -B-- National iecretary of
Capitalization    <                        President      -=                            Energy
r CAPU            ] .AProcurement Unit                                                                       PE
Cons. & Adv.
Cons. 8 Adv.
| Legal Technical                                                                                        Legal Technical
Financial  l                                                                                           Financial
I T    _         _                                                                     _I- -----        7 --'  -- a
|   aa  J    hia ]f~    ~rranc:al                                                                             L    2 r2               7 ] ]|A 



I



IBRD 26624
68'                    66                      64                     62'                    60                          1 0
w                                    ~~~~~~~B O L I V I A
l0-  B R A Z I L                                                                       OIL, GAS AND PRODUCT
FACILITIES AND NETWORK
_>V          ~~Guayavr 
Ribera                                                                   MAJOR GAS FIELDS
Cb zija   +P- N L  MAJOR OIL FIELDS
obi\a                                                                                  - - -  PROJECTED GAS PIPELINE           12
OIL AND PRODUCT PIPELINES
-12'
GAS PIPELINES
REFINERY
00 tt ;%fj          Fx % tGAS PLANTS
(  q                                                              -      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN PRODUCT DEPOTS
j                          i. Rogagy                         m F                                         The boundcares. colors,
0..                             L. Ragagua                L. San     *                                           denominations and ony   1 4
ania          tui                                                   other information shosnn   
144                           7eAna                                                                                 on this map do not
imply. on the port of
The World Bank Group.
any judgment on the legal
status of any territory.
or any endorsement
or acceptance of such
boundaries
t  * ww- ~ R <\  /   >\=+yi-  r M r>tA  vrN4                            OSaR JaseI L
16-
-I 8"~~~~~~~~P zru p  t!~%o __7U_,
m      amay         ii Jvs_o                   NADA t                     t        A
\   ~       ~~~~ -,,    +.'_-                               \dret                                                                      -n2 
j~.                                                            Santo Crux   .-.E                      San Josi JpG6
Oru 0                     .Rio lD                                      U   Z
1 8
\Ari                                                                       Ge-D                                         22A/
Tara                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Puerto SuarezAi'
[* (Coesa                         , .oTui            t                                                                /
Poji~~    Mo t~~doO>k   Is~orets                                                   > 2
60~~~~~~~~~~~ 
2 2 Dl       h      t                                  y                                P E R       L .-   (          B R A_Z 22
J       %         r                          fS3&,>eio               ,          WIme7 ?~-  L,~        -->
I~~~~~~~~~~ 1_ Po             0yun                                       7         \N      ,.4r I                .nlc
g   C H I L E              :             A R G E N T I N A                                               Ln<psz.rss A RAGUA
ll                                    69~~~~~~ NATIONAL CAPITAL                        ' 'So.-
T 0 S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
zS4o          ~10   0   15   200  25                 DEPARTMENT CAPITALS               24--  i4p            ILEn)     \PARAGJAY
\ ~~~KILOMETERS                  I      ~     - --   DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                    (   ;. 
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDA                         ,.JN R1RTIESTE9 
68-  66'               64'                    62            -                 GENTINA   /~~~~~~~~~~6
rij    A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUAY19









IMAGING
DRAFT
CONFIDENT I AL
RS-pLolt Nzo  p-    622. Ci
Type: MOP



