Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19476
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
HYDROCARBON SECTOR REFORM AND CAPITALIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2762 BO)
June 29, 1999
Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru Country Unit
Finance, Private Sector & Infrastructure Sector Unit
Latin America & Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performwhce of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAPU           Capitalization Unit
ESMAP          Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GOB            Government of Bolivia
IDA           International Development Association
LPG            Liquefied Petroleum Gas
MIS            Management Information System
MOC           Ministry of Capitalization
MOP            Memorandum of the President
NSE            National Secretariat of Energy
PEU            Project Executing Unit
SAM or MEC   Sociedades An6nimas Mixtas/Mixed Economy Corporation
SIRESE         Sistema de Regulaci6n Sectorial/Regulation System Law
SOE           State Owned Enterprise
VMEH           Vice Ministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons
YPFB           Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos/State Owned Oil
Company
Vice President:    : Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:    : Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager:    : Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader:  : Chakib Khelil



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA    FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
HYDROCARBON SECTOR REFORM AND CAPITALIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2762 BO)
Table of Contents
Preface
Evaluation Summary
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction .............................................1
Project Objectives and Scope .............................................2
Project Implementation .............................................3
Achievement of Objectives .............................................7
Major Factors Affecting the Project .............................................7
Project Sustainability .............................................8
IDA Performance .............................................8
Borrower Performance .............................................9
Assessment of Outcome .............................................9
Future Operation ............................................ 10
Key Findings ............................................ 10
Key Lessons Learned ............................................                               10
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .13
Table 3: Project Timetable .13
Table 4:   Cumulative Estimate and Actual Loan Disbursement (SDR) .14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .14
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .14
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .15
Table 8A: Project Costs (US$mm) ............................................. 16
Table 8B: Project Financing (US$mm) ............................................ 17
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits ............................................ 17
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ......................................... 17
Table 11: Status of Legal Covenants ............................................ 18
Table 12: Use of IDA Resources: Staff Inputs ............................................      19
Table 13: Use of IDA Resources: Major Project Missions ............................................ 19
APPENDIX A - BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION (Translation from Spanish)
MAP - IBRD 26624R
Project Identification Number: BO-PA-6178
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
HYDROCARBON SECTOR REFORM AND CAPITALIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2762 BO)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Hydrocarbon Sector
Reform and Capitalization Technical Assistance Project in Bolivia, for which Credit
2762-BO in the amount of SDR6.8 million (US$10.64 million equivalent) to the
Government of Bolivia was approved on July 6, 1995 and made effective on December 5,
1995.
The Credit closed as scheduled on December 31, 1998. Final disbursement took
place on May 11, 1999, at which time a balance of SDR 272,891.79 was cancelled.
The ICR was prepared by H. Morsli, Principal Petroleum Engineer (EMTOG) and
reviewed by Mr. Chakib Khelil, Petroleum Adviser and Task Team Leader (EMTOG),
Susan Goldmark, Sector Leader (LCSFP), Maria Victoria Lister, Quality Assurance
Officer (LCSFP) and David Varela, Counsel (LEGLR).
Preparation of the ICR began during the IDA's final supervision'and completion
mission in December 1998 prior to the Credit's closing date. It is based on material in
the project file and discussions with and information provided by GOB and the
implementing agencies. The Borrower contributed to the ICR by preparing its own
project evaluation (Appendix A).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
HYDROCARBON SECTOR REFORM AND CAPITALIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2762 BO)
Evaluation Summary
i.   Introduction. Bolivia's hydrocarbon sector provides the country with significant
natural gas export opportunities to neighboring liberalized energy markets. However, the
sector requires capital-intensive investments that are beyond public sector financing
capabilities. In 1990, the government of Bolivia promulgated a new hydrocarbon law
expanding the role of the private sector, but the response was limited. Some of the major
reasons were the overwhelming predominance of the national oil company (Yacimientos
Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos/YPFB) and the limited attractiveness of the hydrocarbon
law. Privatization was an obvious option, but like in many developing countries, it was
contentious and feared as a loss of jobs and the nation's patrimony. Yet, to develop the
country's hydrocarbon potential and take advantage of the regional markets, GOB had no
alternative than to involve the private sector.  In 1993, therefore, the incoming
Government conceived a privatization scheme for six state owned enterprises (SOEs)
with investment opportunities in hydrocarbons, electricity, mining, telecommunications,
railway and aviation, with a total value estimated at about $4 billion (exceeding 65
percent of GDP). Under the scheme, GOB contributes to the formation of new
corporations, in which pre-qualified companies would be invited to bid for 50 percent of
the shares. The investor's contribution is not paid to GOB, but invested into the
corporations in the form of capitalization for further development. The scheme provides
the investor with a full management contract for a fixed period of time after which the
investor would be able to increase its shareholding. The State's equity representing 50%
of each company's capital is transferred into a collective pension fund, to benefit all
Bolivian citizens, over the age of 65 (about 3.2 million people), initially this was in a
payment of 250 US dollars per year, later the new Government changed the cash payment
to a participation in a mutual fund representing the value of the Government's share in
the Capitalized Companies. To ensure adequate redistribution of the state's equity, the
pension fund would be privately operated (later the new Government requested the
pension fund to report to the superintendent of pensions) and created from the reform of
the country's inefficient pension and social security systems. For the scheme to succeed
and stimulate expansion with job creation, GOB needed to proceed with a number of
inter-sectoral policy initiatives, involving substantial changes in the legal and regulatory
framework to ensure effective and transparent process, including in the hydrocarbon
sector, for which this project was designed.
i



ii
ii.    Project Objectives and Scope.  The project's objectives were to assist the
government in developing sector policy initiatives for (i) the reform of the hydrocarbon
sector, including the strengthening of the government's agencies which will be
monitoring and regulating activities in the sector; and (ii) the capitalization, by private
investors, of YPFB assets. To achieve these objectives, the project provided assistance in
(a) developing and implementing a legal and regulatory framework for the hydrocarbon
sector; (b) designing a strategy and a master plan leading to the capitalization of YPFB;
and (c) strengthening the regulatory agencies. The project's objectives and the scope
required no changes during implementation and they proved to be realistic and of the
utmost importance to the country's hydrocarbon sector.
iii.   Project Implementation. The project was a continuation of a sectoral reform
program that was initiated a few years earlier with the support of IDA through two
Project Preparation Facilities (PPFs). Prior to the project, therefore, GOB approved the
necessary general enabling legislation consisting of a number of enterprise reform related
laws and regulations. In March 1994, GOB passed the Capitalization Law, which
established the legal framework for the program, and, in October 1994, the GOB passed
the Sectoral Regulation System Law (Sistema de Regulaci6n Sectorial/SIRESE), which
established the regulatory and oversight structure for the capitalized sectors. In March
1994, GOB established a Ministry of Capitalization (MOC) to develop a capitalization
plan and carry out the multi-sector reform policy. MOC, which relied on a small group of
high level and competent officials, became a strong focal point with the full backing of
the President of the Republic.  MOC devoted more than a year developing the
capitalization program before proceeding with its implementation at the sectoral level.
iv.   Implementation of the hydrocarbon capitalization plan began with the creation of
two implementation units, the Project Executing Unit (PEU) to carry out the regulatory
framework and institutional strengthening under the Ministry of Economic Development,
and the Capitalization Unit (CAPU) to develop the capitalization of YPFB under MOC.
Both units were staffed essentially with local and foreign high level professional
consultants, covering all area of activities, including technical, financial and legal. YPFB
capitalization began with a series of studies, including a number of seminars organized in
and outside Bolivia and a detailed asset valuation that allowed the government to set a
baseline benchmark to ensure a fair process. A pre-qualification of bidders attracted
thirty-seven oil and gas companies that also provided useful input into the process.
v.    The government decided to capitalize YPFB's assets into three mixed economy
corporations (Sociedades Anonimas Mixtas/SAMs), two in production and one in
pipeline transportation. YPFB's technical services, consisting essentially of well drilling
were not capitalized, but privatized in February 1998 by direct sale. The downstream
activities, consisting of two refineries (50,000 bbl/d), thirty-two bulk storage depots and
seven large LPG bottling plants were also taken out of the capitalization program because
of labor union pressure and also market conditions under which they appeared to be better
off privatized rather than capitalized. The privatization of the downstream activities was
initiated in mid-1998 and would be completed in 1999.  To facilitate YPFB's



capitalization, a number of laws and regulations were adopted. A Hydrocarbon Law
passed in April 1996 enhanced substantially the value of YPFB companies and equally
important, provided significant incentives for the exploration of the country's large
sedimentary basins without reducing the government's long-term tax revenues. In May
1997, the government geographically delimited the areas to be promoted under a new
contract of operations with transparent bidding procedures. Within the same month, an
environmental protection regulation was introduced, enforcing application of the newly
passed Environmental Law. Several other important regulations were adopted within a
year later to implement the hydrocarbon law.
vi.   YPFB two production SAMs were: (i) Empresa Petrolera Chaco, and (ii) Empresa
Petrolera Andina, that were made by dividing YPFB production properties into two equal
parts. YPFB pipeline properties were organized into one SAM, Transportadora Boliviana
de Hidrocarburos (Transredes). Each SAM consisted of two series of shares of equal
value and consisting of "A" shares for the Republic of Bolivia and "B" shares for the
private participation. The "B" shares were issued to be entirely subscribed and paid for in
cash and full amount by the new investor. The investor's funds were deposited in full
amount into the SAM's account to be invested in Bolivia petroleum sector over a period
of eight years with no restrictions put on the capitalized enterprise.
vii.  Sixteen bidders were pre-qualified to bid for Chaco and Andina production
corporations and nine bidders were pre-qualified to bid for the Transredes pipeline
corporation. Only one multinational oil and gas company was pre-qualified to bid for all
three corporations. However, it would have been awarded only one production company
and the pipeline company because of the government's intention to enforce the third party
access to the transmission system. The bids were submitted and opened on December 5,
1996. Under public disclosure of the bid amounts, Empresa Petrolera Chaco production
SAM was awarded to AMOCO, USA, Empresa Petrolera Andina production SAM to
YPF-Perez-Pluspetrol, Argentina and Transredes pipeline SAM to Enron-Shell Overseas
Holdings, USA. AMOCO and YPF-Perez-Pluspetrol took over the operations of their
respective companies on April 10, 1997 and Enron-Shell took over theirs on May 16,
1997.
viii. YPFB workers were offered early retirement packages and given preferential
options to subscribe "A" shares in the SAMs, at book value and up to an amount equal to
their social benefits, bought about 4% of the production SAMs and 16% of the pipeline
SAM. The remaining "A" shares were transferred to a collective pension fund on behalf
of all Bolivian citizens. In addition, the government also took advantage of the reform of
its key economic sectors to replace the country's nearly bankrupt social security by a
pension system aimed at increasing the well-being of Bolivian citizens and developing
capital markets with the resources transferred from the newly capitalized enterprises.
Both the worker stock options and social security reform enabled the government to draw
some support from unions that helped the implementation process.



iv
ix.   Under the new legal framework, YPFB has no more operating rights and remains
as a government agency, for monitoring the compliance of the oil companies with their
contractual exploration and production obligations. The new YPFB will also aggregate
gas export contract commitments to Argentina and Brazil and manages the government's
share of petroleum liquids and gas resulting from contracts of operations. Under the new
legal framework, the government is paid a royalty and not anymore a share of production.
x.    Achievement of Objectives. The project achieved its key objectives of assisting
the government to: (i) establish a regulatory framework to properly regulate the
capitalized enterprises; (ii) develop an accountability mechanism to ensure that the
private investors will comply with the capitalization terms; (iii) maximize the value of the
Bolivian's share in key petroleum sector entities before and after capitalization; (iv)
redefine the role of the government by transferring the hydrocarbon operations to the
private sector; and (v) enhance competition, promote efficiency and protect the consumer
and the environment. The achievement of these objectives was attained with the
assistance of various foreign and local consultants financed under the project
components, details of which can be seen in table 7 and 8A of the ICR.
xi.   Major Factors Affecting the Project. The concept of capitalization was complex
and its implementation proved to be more difficult than anticipated. The government's
publicity campaign to mobilize general public support was limited resulting in some wide
opposition to the capitalization organized by the Confederation of Bolivian Workers. The
privatization of the downstream activities and field technical services were delayed until
late 1998 and 1999. In addition, critics indicated that poverty would have been better
alleviated if the capitalization's proceeds were used for current social needs, such as the
large deficits in basic health and education. Criticism was also drawn to the insufficient
logistics associated with the implementation of the pension fund scheme, particularly
with regard to locating, documenting and paying a dispersed population of pensioners.
xii.  Project Sustainability.  The project's achievements are highly likely to be
sustainable. Bolivia's new government, which took office in August 1997, despite some
initial reservations about (i) the scope of autonomy provided to the superintendence (ii)
the issuance of regulations without obtaining the consensus of all the Ministries, not only
preserved the reforns, but has been deepening them, such as the ongoing privatization of
the refineries. Since then, the capitalization of the petroleum sector is being legitimized
by a number of other important follow-up reform actions, which would make the project
irreversible and, therefore, sustainable.
xiii. IDA Performance. IDA performance was highly satisfactory throughout the
project's cycle. IDA played an important role during the capitalization program by
supporting through ESMAP and other grant funds a number of studies, which enhanced
the government's implementation performance and increased Bolivia's credibility within
the international oil and gas industry. During implementation, IDA contributed important
and timely advice to the borrower on various implementation issues allowing the project
to be completed as scheduled.



v
xiv.  Borrower Performance. The Borrower's performance was highly satisfactory.
First, the design of the Bolivian reform had a unique feature, which mitigated the popular
doubts about traditional trade-sale privatization that undermined so many reforms
elsewhere in the world. Second, the project implementation, in spite of the program's
complexity, was carried out in a transparent manner.
xv.   Assessment of Outcome.  Bolivia's capitalization attracted investors who
subscribed $835 million in 3 corporations with a joint book value of about $383 million.
In addition, an amount of about $1.6 billion has been committed to other sector
development activities, such as in new contracts of operations and other sector related
activities. Furthermore, ongoing negotiations for new petroleum exploration agreements
and other activities are expected to generate and commit as much as $2 billion within the
next two to three years. Moreover, the Bolivia-Brazil gas pipeline, a project that was
decided between both countries in 1975, has been finally implemented and the pipeline
inaugurated in February 1999.  Another major outcome, in the form  of poverty
alleviation, is making some 300,000 elderly Bolivians, the majority of whom are poor,
benefit from a total of about $75 million in pension funds as early as 1998. The number
of pension beneficiaries is expected to rise by about 10,000 per year. In addition, by
freeing state budget resources, more government funds become available for expenditures
in social sectors that would benefit poor rural areas.
xvi.  Future Operation. Although no explicit arrangements were made about the
project's future operation, there was an understanding between GOB and IDA that the
petroleum sector reform process will continue. In fact, the government has initiated the
privatization of YPFB refining and other related activities. A Learning and Innovation
Credit is in the process of preparation to finance a Hydrocarbon Environmental
Management Capacity Building Pilot Project.
xvii. Key Findings. The project's key finding were: (i) the program was completed
about one year behind schedule, but comparatively speaking, it was implemented faster
and with less problems than reforrn programs in other countries; (ii) changes in macro
policy facilitated the implementation of the reform program; (iii) the employment level in
the capitalized enterprises was not dramatically affected; (iv) the conversion of state
shareholdings into pension fund for all citizens is a unique approach by which private
corporate-led economic expansion is associated with the welfare of the population; and
(v) prospects of exporting gas to Brazil was critical in attracting foreign investors.
xviii. Key Lessons Learned. The project's key lessons were: (i) quality staff with a
clear mandate, sufficient autonomy and authority is critical to implementing reform
programs, particularly privatization of SOE; (ii) to succeed, the reforms have to be not
only economically but also politically sustainable; (iii) privatization process should be
transparent with continued education of the public to ensure their understanding,
particularly in countries with an exclusionary decision making history; (iv) for the
privatization to lead to greater competition, it is necessary to prepare a transparent



vi
regulatory framework, prior to the divestiture process; (v) Bolivia's capitalization might
be worth considering in other countries, because compared to a regular privatization
under which the sales proceeds will be allocated to the state treasury, the capitalization's
sales money is invested into the enterprise, providing it with the necessary capital for its
growth. The distribution of the state shares, or the benefits from them, to the public in
the form of workers' compensation benefits or retirement pensions, would make the
reform process more acceptable to the population, and (vi) a committed central power
represented by the President helped smoothen the differences between the Capitalization
entity and the Ministry of Energy.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
HYDROCARBON SECTOR REFORM AND CAPITALIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2762 BO)
Part I - Project Implementation Assessment
Introduction
1.    Bolivia's hydrocarbon sector predominates the country's economic activities
although it is still largely undeveloped. In 1997, it represented about 6.3 percent of GDP,
40 percent of government revenues of which 10 percent from export and has the potential
of a much greater source of government fiscal revenue. It offers a significant natural gas
reserve potential and large unexplored sedimentary basins that provide important
commercial opportunities, particularly in the area of natural gas export to the recently
liberalized energy markets in the region. To achieve a meaningful level of development
and take advantage of these markets, Bolivia's hydrocarbon sector requires large capital-
intensive investments, which are beyond the public sector's financial resources. To
attract foreign direct investment, the government revised the hydrocarbon law in 1990,
expanding the role of the private sector.  While the law generated some interest,
particularly with Brazil's natural gas market potential, private participation remained
modest and lagged far behind the one experienced in neighboring countries such as
Argentina and Peru, where the petroleum sectors were privatized earlier. One of the
reasons was the overwhelming predominance of the State through YPFB, which was
holding more than 80% of the proven oil and gas reserves and most of the prospective
petroleum exploration areas. YPFB was also controlling most of the country's oil and
gas production, all of the refining, pipeline transport and wholesale distribution of
petroleum products and natural gas. Other reasons were a weak local market, a
precarious export capability and a limited attractiveness of the hydrocarbon law and
sector related regulations.
2.    Privatization was one obvious answer to Bolivia's hydrocarbon sector's lack of
development. However, like in many developing countries with a limited economy and
capital market, privatization is contentious and feared as a loss of jobs and the nation's
patrimony. With no alternative, the government, therefore, had to conceive a unique and
innovative privatization scheme for selected key state owned enterprises (SOEs) with
investment opportunities in hydrocarbons, electricity, mining, telecommunication,
railway and aviation, with a total value estimated to be more than $4 billion (exceeding
65 percent of GDP). Under the scheme, the government does not sell its net worth, but
contributes to the formation of new corporations, in which, rigorously pre-qualified
I



2
international companies would be selected through international competitive bidding, to
purchase 50 percent of the new corporation's shares. The investor's contribution is not
paid to the government, but invested into the corporations in the form of capitalization for
expansion and further development. A 50 percent share of the capitalized corporation is
usually enough to ensure management control. However, to avoid any uncertainty, the
scheme is flexible enough to provide the investor with a management contract for a fixed
period of time after which the investor would be able to increase its shareholding. The
State's equity (about $2 billion) is transferred into a collective pension fund, which will
have the legal obligation to provide a universal and equal annual pension payment of
about $250 to all Bolivian citizens, over the age of 65 (about 3.2 million people). To
ensure adequate administration and redistribution of the state's equity, the pension fund
would be privately operated and created from the reform of the country's inefficient
pension and social security systems. For the scheme to succeed and stimulate expansion
with job creation, the government needed to proceed with a number of inter-sectoral
policy initiatives, involving substantial changes in legal and regulatory framework to
ensure effective and transparent process, including in the hydrocarbon sector, for which
this project was designed.
Project Objectives and Scope
3.    The project's objectives were to support the government's capitalization process
of the hydrocarbon sector, particularly the policy initiatives to maximize the long-term
economic benefits from foreign direct investment and protect the consumers and the
environment.  Specifically, the project was designed to assist the government in
developing the policy and regulatory framework for (i) the reform of the hydrocarbon
sector, including the strengthening of the government's agencies that will be monitoring
and regulating activities in the sector; and (ii) the capitalization, by private investors, of
YPFB assets. To assist the government achieving its objectives, the project consisted of
three main components: (a) development and implementation of a legal and regulatory
framework for the hydrocarbon sector; (b) design of a strategy and a master plan that
would include measures leading to the capitalization of YPFB; and (c) institutional
strengthening of the sector's regulating agencies. Another project component was the
set-up of a petroleum data center to help the government promote petroleum exploration
and development through risk sharing contracts (concession type contracts) with private
companies.
4.    Neither the project's objectives nor the scope required changes during
implementation. Both proved to have been well designed and of the utmost importance
to the country's hydrocarbon sector. The project was implemented by two ministries, the
Ministry of Capitalization and the Ministry of Economic Development, which were in
charge of different, but inter-related aspects.



3
Project Implementation
5.    The project was a continuation of a sectoral reform program that was initiated a
few years earlier with the support of IDA through two Project Preparation Facilities
(PPFs). Prior to the project, therefore, GOB approved the necessary general enabling
legislation consisting of a number of enterprise reform related laws (i.e., capitalization,
hydrocarbon, environment and tax) and regulations (i.e., environmental management,
environmental control and prevention, atmospheric pollution control and water pollution
control). In March 1994, GOB passed the Capitalization Law, which established the legal
framework to support the program, and, in October 1994, the government passed the
Sectoral Regulation System Law (Sistema de Regulaci6n Sectorial/SIRESE), which
established the regulatory framework and oversight structure for the capitalized sectors.
SIRESE consisted of a General Superintendent authority and Sectoral Superintendence,
operationally autonomous, intended to ensure efficient operations in their specific area of
activities with the objective to safeguard the rights and obligations of the state, private
operators and consumers. One of the Superintendences (Hydrocarbon Superintendence),
is in charge of regulating the activities in petroleum transport, refining and distribution.
In March 1994, GOB established a Ministry of Capitalization (MOC) to carry out the
multi-sector reform policy. The Ministry of Capitalization reported directly to the
President of the Republic and relied on a small group of high level and competent
officials with clear mandate and sufficient autonomy to develop a capitalization plan
within the scope of the reforms defined by GOB. MOC became a strong focal point with
the full back up of the President, who was himself deeply involved in the process,
providing the necessary strong executive authority to define strategy and take key
decisions. MOC devoted more than a year working out the scope, timing, method and
pace of the capitalization program before proceeding with its implementation at the
sectoral level.
6.    Implementation of the hydrocarbon capitalization plan began at the sectoral level
in 1995 with the creation of two implementation units, consisting of: (a) the Project
Executing Unit (PEU) to carry out the legal regulatory and institutional strengthening
under the Ministry of Economic Development; and (b) the Capitalization Unit (CAPU) to
develop the specific sector related strategy and implementation plan leading to the
capitalization of YPFB under MOC. PEU consisted of 4 working groups (legal and
regulatory framework, petroleum pricing and taxation, institutional strengthening and
environmental regulations). The groups were staffed essentially with local long-term
high level professional consultants, who were supported (on an ad-hoc basis) by foreign
consultants. CAPU was supported by short and long-term technical, financial and legal
local and foreign consultants. CAPU was under the control of an Advisory Committee,
consisting of high-level government officials, chaired by the Minister of Capitalization.
Both PEU and CAPU were subject to rigorous implementation schedule, although the
details of their activities were worked out on a learn-as-you-go basis.



4
7.    The YPFB capitalization program began with a series of studies covering all
aspects of the process. Although the transfer price of the companies to be capitalized was
to be decided through competitive bidding procedures, a detailed and thorough asset
valuation was carried out in accordance with nationally and internationally accepted
accounting and auditing standards. This allowed the government to set an essential
baseline benchmark to ensure a fair process. A number of seminars were organized in
and outside Bolivia, during which potential investors were given the opportunity to
provide input into the process. A key step taken early in the process was a rigorous pre-
qualification of bidders that attracted some thirty-seven oil and gas companies that
expressed interest.  Data rooms were organized by a specialized consulting firmn
providing complete financial, corporate, legal, technical and other operational
information on YPFB.
8.    The studies and a continuous dialogue with the international oil and gas industry
allowed the government to (i) develop a strategy of maximizing competition, the value of
YPFB and the investments to be derived from the capitalization; and (ii) consolidate
YPFB activities to be capitalized into operationally and financially viable companies,
while minimizing the risk of establishing private monopolies. Therefore, the government
decided to capitalize all of YPFB production and pipeline assets into three mixed
economy corporations (Sociedades An6nimas Mixtas/SAMs), two in production and one
in pipeline transportation. Smaller financially viable business units, which would have
probably increased competition, entail the risk of attracting investors that may not have
the capital to meet the large investment requirements, especially in natural gas pipeline
infrastructure. YPFB downstream activities, consisting of two refineries of a total
capacity of about 50,000 bbl/d and related marketing facilities with thirty-two bulk
storage depots and seven large LPG bottling plants, were taken out of the capitalization
program because of labor union pressure and also market conditions under which they
appeared to be better off privatized rather than capitalized. Similarly, the technical
services, consisting essentially of well drilling units, were taken out of the capitalization.
The well drilling services were privatized in February 1998 while the downstream
activities are being prepared for privatization in 1999/2000.
9.    A Hydrocarbon Law promulgated in April 1996 enhanced substantially the value
of YPFB companies to be capitalized and, equally important, provided significant
incentives for the exploration of the country's large sedimentary basins without reducing
the government's long-term tax revenues. Some of the Law's key features included: (i)
attractive fiscal and tax incentives for petroleum exploration and development
investments with reduction in royalty payments from the equivalent of 50 percent
previously paid on gross production to 18 percent and introduction of a 25 percent
income tax and a surtax of 25 percent for windfall profits; (ii) independent, non-
discretionary framework to petroleum exploration through open access to acreage to any
technically and financially qualified company subject to a minimum work program
commitment; (iii) internationally competitive prices for petroleum products with the
possibility for a full price deregulation within the next 5 years; and (iv) third party access
with non-discriminatory tariffs to gas, oil and product pipelines.  In May 1997, the



5
government geographically delimited the areas to be promoted for petroleum exploration
and development within the potential sedimentary basins and issued the model
exploration and production contract with clear and transparent bidding procedures, which
were designed for a much faster process than in the past. Within the same month, an
environmental protection regulation was introduced, enforcing application of the
Environmental Law and focusing on management, prevention and control, atmospheric
pollution, water pollution and handling of dangerous substances and solid residues.
Within a year later, several sets of important regulations were adopted.
10.   YPFB production assets were organized into two SAMs: (i) Empresa Petrolera
Chaco, and (ii) Empresa Petrolera Andina, by dividing all of YPFB production properties
into two equal parts. YPFB pipeline assets were organized into one corporation,
Transportadora Boliviana de Hidrocarburos (Transredes), to operate all of YPFB crude
oil and natural gas pipelines, including the Bolivian portion of the Bolivia-Brazil natural
gas pipeline and a small participation in the Brazilian side. Each SAM was governed by
its own by-laws and with two series of shares of equal value and consisting of "A" shares
for the Republic of Bolivia and "B" shares for the private participation, through
capitalization. The "B" shares were issued to be entirely subscribed and paid for in cash
and full amount by the new investor. To attract bidder interests and minimize the risk of
negative impact on the bidding price, the capitalization law provides the investor with a
full management control of the SAM through an administration contract to be signed with
the government for a fixed period of time. After that time, the investor would be able to
buy shares in the open market to increase its holding beyond 50 percent. The full cash
payment by the new investor would be made before or no later than the award of the
capitalization contract to ensure that the SAM is with a healthy balance sheet when it is
taken over. The new investor's funds deposited in the SAM's account would be invested
in Bolivia petroleum sector over a period of eight years with no restrictions put on the
capitalized enterprise. The new investor would decide on how to carry out its investment
program, without enforcement mechanisms or sanctions spelled out at the time of the
transaction, except the contractual obligation to complete the investment within 8 years.
11.   Sixteen bidders with strong production experience were pre-qualified to bid for
Chaco and Andina production corporations. Because of their financial resources, twelve
of these bidders could bid for the two production corporations and four bidders could bid
only for one of the two companies. Nine bidders with strong pipeline experience were
pre-qualified to bid for the Transredes. Only one multinational oil and gas company was
pre-qualified to bid for all three corporations. However, it would have been awarded only
one production company and the pipeline company because of the government's intention
to apply the third party access to the transmission system. The bidders were carefully
pre-qualified based on their proposed business plans, technical qualification and financial
resources. The bids were submitted and opened on December 5, 1996. The capitalization
implementation team made great effort to ensure the transparency of the process, through
clearly defined competitive procedures and proper bid evaluation. The winning bidders,
whose quotation amounts were publicly disclosed, were AMOCO for Empresa Petrolera
Chaco, YPF/Perez Compane/Pluspetrol for Empresa Petrolera Andina, and Enron/Shell
Overseas Holdings for Transportadora Boliviana de Hidrocarburos, Transredes. AMOCO



6
and YPF/Perez Companc/Pluspetrol took over the operations of their respective
companies on April 10, 1997 and Enron/Shell took over theirs on May 16, 1997, after
having completed the share subscription they quoted for and signed the SAM
administration contract allowing them to manage the capitalized enterprises as freely as
possible within the limits set by the law. All of the involved parties, including the
international oil and gas industry conceded that Bolivia's hydrocarbon capitalization was
well conceived and coherently implemented through a transparent process. It succeeded
to move away from traditional privatization strategies that aim primarily to sell off state
enterprises to private investors.
12.   Until the closing date of the bidding process, YPFB workers were given
preferential options to subscribe "A" shares in the SAMs, at book value and up to an
amount equal to their social benefits (such as pension contributions and disability
insurance), to be exercised within a year after the bidding. The worker participation was
quite high with an estimated total of about 4% in the production SAMs and 16% in the
pipeline SAM. The remaining "A" shares were transferred to the collective pension fund
on behalf of all Bolivian citizens. Workers were also offered early retirement packages.
In addition, the government also took advantage of the reform of its key economic sectors
to replace the country's nearly bankrupt social security by a pension system aimed at
increasing the well-being of Bolivian citizens and developing capital markets with the
resources transferred from the newly capitalized enterprises. The new pension system
consists of two government regulated private funds established through competitive
bidding. Both the worker stock options and social security reform enable the government
to draft some support from unions that helped the implementation process.
13.   On the institutional side, the elaborate structure of regulatory system set-up prior
to capitalization has become almost fully operational in 1997.  Since then, the
hydrocarbon sector regulating agency has been provided with number of specifically
developed hydrocarbon related regulations, including operational safety in all upstream,
downstream and pipeline transportation activities. An Environmental Unit to deal with
environmental regulations and environmental impact assessments in the hydrocarbon
sector was also established in 1997 under the Vice Ministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons.
14.   Under the new legal framework, YPFB has been retained as a government agency,
for monitoring, on behalf of the government, the compliance of the oil companies with
their petroleum exploration and development contracts. The new YPFB has no more
operating rights and cannot act as a working interest partner in any of the existing or
future petroleum exploration and development contracts of operations. It will aggregate
gas export contract commitments with Argentina and Brazil and handle the percentages
of petroleum liquids and gas resulting from exploration and production contracts between
the government and the operating companies. It will also administer the petroleum data
information center, which was financed under the project for petroleum exploration
promotion and development. In this regard, YPFB organized after the capitalization, a
highly successful petroleum exploration promotion in USA that led to the award of 34
exploration areas. A management information system (MIS) is being installed to
interconnect YPFB with the other petroleum sector agencies to facilitate exchange of



7
information between them.
Achievement of Objectives
15.   The project achieved its key objectives of assisting the borrower to: (i) establish a
regulatory framework that not only helped in implementing the capitalization program
but provided the state with the capability to properly regulate the capitalized enterprises
in the future, including avoiding the risk of establishing private monopolies; (ii) develop
an accountability mechanism to ensure that the private investors will comply with the
capitalization terms, and a legal framework that will guarantee the rights of all relevant
parties; (iii) maximize the value of the Bolivian's share in key petroleum sector entities
before and after capitalization; (iv) redefine the role of the government by transferring all
of the country's petroleum exploration, development, production and transportation
operations to the private sector; (v) attract the necessary private investment; and (iv)
enhance competition, promote efficiency and protect the consumer and the environment.
The achievement of these objectives was attained through the studies done by
consultants, the individual consultants and the consulting firms financed under the project
components, details of which can be seen in table 7 and 8A of the ICR.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
16.   The concept of capitalization was complex and its implementation proved to be
more difficult than anticipated. The government's publicity campaign to convince the
general public and gain its support, was limited, too technical and political. As a result
and in spite of the govermnent's explicit attempt to involve the majority of the Bolivians
in the process, the Confederation of Bolivian Workers managed to oppose the
capitalization program and organize sufficient labor union movements and social unrest
that resulted in delaying the program and postponing the privatization of the refineries
and some of the technical services. In spite of a strong focal point within the ministry of
capitalization and a clear mandate with the officials in charge of the program, there have
been implementation difficulties and disagreements between the various ministries and
government agencies, which required the President of the Republic oftentimes to referee
the process.
17.   In spite of having established a regulatory framework (SIRESE) prior to
capitalization, the regulatory agencies came into operation only after the capitalization
due to the lack of adequate staffing and resources.
18.   The pension scheme proposed as a benefit resulting from the Capitalization
process has drawn criticism, which affected, to some extent, the project implementation
performance. The critics indicated that there are many social needs, including large
deficits in basic health and education that would have a better development impact on the
country if they benefited from the capitalization's proceeds. Criticism was also drawn to
the insufficient logistics associated with the implementation of the pension fund scheme
as the survey to locate the pension beneficiaries proved to be very difficult to carry out.
The law specifies that payment can only be made to those in possession of an identity



8
card, which must include a photograph, a fingerprint and date of birth. Reportedly, many
old people have no way of proving their date of birth and may even not know how old
they are. The law provides that authorities should issue an ID to any individual claiming
to be of a certain age provided he is backed by two other persons. In rural areas, locating,
documenting and paying a dispersed population of pensioners, often illiterate, proved to
be more difficult than anticipated.
Project Sustainability
19.   The project's achievements are highly likely to be sustainable. The hydrocarbon
capitalization process was part of a broader reform program initiated in 1993 aimed at
sustainable  development,  national  income  redistribution  and  administrative
decentralization  and  involving  other  sectors  such  as  electricity,  mining,
telecommunication, railway and aviation that would make the project irreversible and,
therefore, sustainable. In fact, the reforms achieved in the petroleum sector are so well
interconnected and, in some cases, intricate with some of other reforms covering a much
larger economic activity in the country, such as the national social security reforms, that
any attempt to revert the capitalization process would seriously affect the country's
economy. Bolivia's new government, which took office in August 1997 and opposed the
privatization when it was initiated in 1993-94, not only preserved the reforms so far
made, but has been deepening them, such as the ongoing privatization of the refineries.
Since then, the capitalization of the petroleum sector, like other restructured economic
activities, is no longer being viewed as the result on one political party and, therefore, is
being legitimized by a number of other important follow-up reform actions.
20.   The project's sustainability is also highly likely because of the personal stake for a
large part of the population in the capitalized enterprises through the pension fund
scheme. In fact the distribution of state shares in the form of retirement pension funds is
a form of ownership of the people in the capitalized enterprises, that provides some long-
term credibility for the privatization, as was experienced by the distribution of shares in
some East European countries.
IDA Performance
21.   IDA performance was satisfactory throughout the project's cycle, from appraisal
to implementation supervision and this view is shared by almost all of the Bolivian
officials associated with the project. IDA played an important role during the crucial
early stage of the capitalization program by supporting through ESMAP and other grant
funds a number of studies, which enhanced the government's implementation
performance and increased Bolivia's credibility within the international oil and gas
industry.  During implementation, IDA provided consistent supervision with the
necessary expertise and continuity, which developed a very close collaboration between
IDA and all government agencies involved in the process. IDA contributed important
and timely advice to the borrower on various implementation issues allowing the project
to be completed as scheduled.



9
Borrower Performance
22.   The Borrower's perfornance was highly satisfactory. First, the design of the
Bolivian reform had a unique feature, which was the popular participation by which the
government's share in the new company was distributed to the people. This approach
mitigated the popular doubts about traditional trade-sale privatization that undermined so
many reforms elsewhere in the world. Second, the project implementation was carried
out in a fairly transparent manner, in spite of the complexity caused by the fact that the
hydrocarbon sector capitalization was part of a much wider macroeconomic policy
reform, involving among other sectors, financial, institutional and social systems. In this
regard, most of the international oil and gas companies conceded that Bolivia's petroleum
upstream privatization was a remarkable achievement. There was no improper behavior
from the implementing agencies and government officials and the few technical
implementation problems experienced early in the process were essentially due to the
lack of experience and limited skilled staff in the area of sector regulations.
Assessment of Outcome
23.   Bolivia's capitalization process attracted the right investors, which have the
necessary incentives to develop the country's hydrocarbon potential and human resources
and, therefore maximize the value of the capitalized corporations. The investors have
already subscribed for $835 million in three corporations with a joint book value of about
$383 million. As per the capitalization agreement, the subscribed amount, of which
about $200 million has already been paid as of December 1998, will be fully utilized in
investment with eight years from the capitalization in 1997. In addition, an amount of
about $1.6 billion has been committed to other sector development activities, such as the
down stream part and new contracts of operations between the government and other
operating companies, which joined Bolivia for petroleum exploration and development
after the capitalization. Moreover, the Bolivia-Brazil gas pipeline, a project that was
decided between both countries in 1975, has been finally implemented and the pipeline
inaugurated in February 1999. Furthermore, ongoing negotiations for new petroleum
exploration agreements and other sector related activities are expected to generate and
commit as much as $2 billion within the next two to three years. The investment level
expected to be generated by the capitalization will provide the petroleum sector with far-
reaching economic development and job creation possibilities and a significant impact on
the country's GDP growth.
24.  Investing fifty percent of the shares of the capitalized enterprises in a social
security system to benefit all elderly Bolivian, the majority of whom are poor, will tackle
a major poverty related problem making the project's outcome a significant contribution
to poverty alleviation. Initially this was in a payment of 250 US dollars per year, later the
new Government changed the cash payment to a participation in a mutual fund
representing the value of the Government's share in the Capitalized Companies. The
pension scheme started in 1998, involving some 300,000 Bolivians. In subsequent years,
the expected number of beneficiaries would rise by about 10,000 per year. In addition, by



10
freeing state budget resources that previously went to support state-owned enterprises,
more resources become available for other govermment expenditures in social sectors that
could benefit poor rural areas.
Future Operation
25.   There was an understanding between GOB and IDA that the petroleum sector
reform process will continue. In fact, the government has initiated the privatization of
YPFB refining and other related activities, and a Learning and Innovation Credit is in the
process of preparation to finance a Hydrocarbon Environmental Management Capacity
Building Pilot.
Key Findings
26.   The project implementation schedule seems to have been somewhat too
optimistic, particularly for achieving such radical policy changes. The program was
completed about one year behind schedule, but comparatively speaking, it was
implemented faster and with less problems than reform programs in other countries. In
general, achieving policy objectives, particularly privatization of important large
economic sectors, should be viewed as a long-term process and forrnulated for an
implementation beyond the project's scope.
27.   The close coordination with changes in macro policy, such as trade and labor
liberalization, and financial and pension reform, that were taking place in Bolivia during
the petroleum sector's capitalization, facilitated the implementation of the reform
program.
28.   While social implications were expected, particularly from the transition of laid-
off workers, the employment level in the capitalized enterprises was not dramatically
affected, even though YPFB is still with some surplus of personnel and for which a
redeployment program is reportedly under consideration.
29.   The conversion of state shareholdings into passive dividend for all citizens is a
unique and innovative approach of private corporate-led economic expansion where
private corporations are associated with a whole population.
30.   Only investors who were prepared to invest significant amounts of capital in
Bolivia's hydrocarbon sector were involved in the capitalization process. They were
attracted by the prospects of exporting gas to Brazil where consumption is projected to
increase more than five times (from 18 to 100 mmcm/d) within the next 10 years.
Key Lessons Learned
31.   Successful implementation requires high quality staff with a clear mandate,
sufficient autonomy and authority, minimal bureaucracy and quick access to top decision-
makers is critical to implementing reform programs, particularly the privatization of
SOEs.



11
32.   For market-oriented reforms to succeed, they have to be not only economically
but also politically sustainable.  For this purpose, during the reform  process, the
government should demonstrate the political will to carry out the reforms and the political
capacity to implement all the changes necessary to achieve the reform objectives.
33.   Privatization concept and implementation design should be transparent to avert all
sort of critiques, including allegations of corruption. Adequate and continued education
of the public to ensure their understanding and gain their support is essential, particularly
in countries with an exclusionary decision-making history. Similarly, if the privatization
is intended for foreign investors, a well prepared international media campaign, carried
out with the assistance of an experienced public relations firm, could significantly
increase investor interest and competition.
34.   For the privatization to lead to greater competition, which is one of its major
objectives, it is necessary to thoroughly prepare and define a transparent regulatory
framework, prior to the divestiture process.
35.   Bolivia's capitalization offers two aspects, which might be worth considering for
reforms of SOEs in other countries, particularly those that lack the financial resources and
would like to have direct and tangible benefits from their SOEs to the public. The first
aspect is that, compared to a regular privatization under which the sales proceeds will be
allocated to the state treasury, the capitalization's sales money is deposited into the
enterprise, providing it with the necessary capital for its growth. The second aspect is the
distribution of the state shares, or the benefits from them, to the public in various forms,
i.e., workers' compensation benefits, retirement pensions, disability insurance, including
social safety nets and other urgent social and poverty alleviation needs. This could be
considered in countries where political resistance has been preventing privatization.



12
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
HYDROCARBON SECTOR REFORM AND CAPITALIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2762 BO)
Part II - Statistical Tables
A. Achievements of Objectives      Substantial     Partial      Negligible     Not Applicable
Macroeconomic Policies             F3            0               u     
Sector Policies                                                                  F  :  
Financial Objectives
Institutional Objectives                         D              D 3                I
Physical Objectives                              D              LI 0      
Poverty Reduction                  L             L              LI
Gender Concerns                    LI            LI             LI
Other Social Objectives                          L              L                L I
Public Sector Management                         LI 0           0                  I
Private Sector Development                       L              L                LI
Environmental Objectives           n             n              LI
B. Project Sustainability            Likely                    Unlikely          Uncertain
C. Bank Performance                  Highly                    Satisfactory      Deficient
SatisfactoryD
Identification                      l                           z                F
Appraisal                          0                                              I D
Supervision                         -I                          Eii
D. Overall Borrower Performance
Preparation                                                                      L E
Implementation                     LI                           XI
Covenant Compliance                                                              L 0
Operation                                                       LI LnI
E. Assessment of Outcome             Highly     Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory      Highly
SatSatisfacto Sr                            Unsatisfactory
E              L               L I
Source: Bank staff estimates.



13
Loan/Credit Title                   Purpose             Approval   Status
Preceding Operations
Bolivia - Power Sector (18180)    Power Sector                     1998    Lending
Bolivia - Finan Sctr (C1925)      Power Sector Rehabilitation      1988    Lending
Bolivia - Mining Sctr (C2013)     Mining Sector                    1989    Lending
Bolivia - Private Entrp Dev (C2134)  Private Enterprise Development    1990    Lending
Bolivia - SAC (C2298)              Structural Adjustment Credit    1992    Lending
Bolivia - SAC (22983)              Structural Adjustment Credit    1995    Lending
Bolivia - SAC (22983)              Structural Adjustment Credit    1995    Lending
Following Operations:
There has been no other petroleum
operations.
Source: Bank Records
_~~~~~~~~~~~~' i
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned                  Actual Date
Identification                           NR                            NR
Appraisal                                NR                         June 1995
Negotiations                           May 1995                   May 9-11, 1995
Board Presentation                     July 1995                   July 06, 1995
Signing                                July 1995                   July 19, 1995
Effectiveness                       October 17, 1995             December 05, 1995
Project completion                   June 30, 1998                 June 30, 1998
Loan closing                       December 31, 1998             December 31, 1998
NR = Not Reported
Source: Project files



14
FY 1996           FY 1997            FY 1998            FY 1999
Appraisal Estimate*   1,917,295.00      5,751,885.00       6,288,725.00       6,800,000.00
Actual                2,972,779.55      4,845,910.70       5,692,387.55       6,527,108.21
Actual as % of          155.05%            84.25%             90.52%             95.99%
estimate
Date of Final Disbursement: May 11, 1999
Source: Disbursement Office
I SDR = 1.56 USD (Calculated for appraisal purposes only)
Key Implementation Indicators           Estimated                      Actual
A. Legal and Regulatory Framework     4th quarter of 1995          1 st Quarter of 1998
B. Capitalization of YPFB             4th Quarter of 1995          4th Quarter of 1997
C. Institutional Strengthening        2nd Quarter of 1998          4th Quarter of 1998
Source: Project files and Borrower Records
Key project operations                                  Key Indicators/Date Issued
Hydrocarbon Law                                         Law 1689, passed April 30, 1996
Model Contract Drafting                                Issued, 1997
Various Regulations Implementing HC Law Including       Supreme Decree Issued, July 19,1996
Environmental ones
Determination of Legal Aspects Related to Natural Gas   Seven Draft, October 30, 1997
Distribution Companies
Organization Structure Set-up and Start-up              Completed 1998
DGH Strengthening and Reorganization in NSE             Completed 1998
Environmental Unit Set-up and Start-up in NSE           Established 1997
HC Superintendence (SIRESE) Design and Set-up           Law 1600, passed, October 29, 1994
YPFB Pre-Capitalization Studies                         Published, December, 1997
YPFB Capitalization Implementation                      Implemented, May 1997
Source: Project Files and Borrower Records



15
Studies        Purpose as defined at appraisal  Status        Impact of Study
Technical and     Indicate YPFB's present status,   Completed  Helped the government
Financial Valuation  quality, maintenance and future           determine sales value of
of YPFB' s Assets  investment requirements.                    YPFB and circumvent
political issue of book value
sale
Business Unit (BU)  Define the various BUs in the light of  Completed  Helped determine the best
organization and    the capitalization strategy adopted by     way to capitalize the
cost center Study   the Government and the various cost        company
centers related to these BUs in order
to have a better idea of the cost and
prepare for the capitalization
Personnel         Create a complete profile and     Completed  Helped determine a plan for
optimization and    evaluation of the personnel, optimize      shedding personnel
Issues Follow-up    the personnel, recommend an action
Study             plan to rationalize personnel prior to
capitalization
Follow-up         Follow-up on an already           Completed  Helped to have a realistic
Inventory Study   commissioned pilot study of the              and meaningful balance
refining warehouses by expanding            sheet inventory account
this work to all warehouses to
determnine what material and
equipment should be kept and what
should be disposed
Debt Issues Study   Analyze YPFB's debt to determine its  Completed  Helped determine the
impact on capitalization process and        amount of responsibility for
define how and how much of it will          assuming YPFB's debt
be allocated to each MECs prior the
capitalization in the light of the
capitalization strategy
Data Bank Unit    Design structure of the Data Bank  Completed  Helping setting up a data
Organization Study  Unit                                       center required under the
new role of YPFB
Environmental Unit Design structure of the Environmental Completed  Helped setting up, staffing
Organization Study  Unit                                       up and training up of new
environmental unit under
the VMEH
Hydrocarbon       Design structure of the Hydrocarbon   Completed  Helped set up new
Superintendence    Superintendence                             regulatory agency for
Organization Study                                             transmission, and
distribution activities
Source: Project Files



16
Appraisal Estimate                 Actual
Project ComponentsLocal   Forei'gn    Ttl Local  Foreign                      Toa
Proyect Components          ~~Costs    Costs    Ttl Costs    Costs            Toa
A. Legal and Regulatory Framnework
* Regulations Implementing Hydrocarbons Law             120       180       300      185     1,277      1,462
* Model Contract for concession and others               40       60        100      39       261        300
* Environmental Regulations Standards and Norms         40        60        100      15       120        135
* Natural Gas Distribution Companies Legal Aspects      40        60        100      33       515        548
Subtotal   240        360       600     272      2,173      2,445
B. Capitalization of YPFB
1. Pre-capitalization Phase                            1,692     2,568     4,260     ---    3,729,7   3,729.7
* Technical and Financial Valuation of YPFB Assets      280       420       700      ---      960        960
* Business Unit Organization and Cost Center Study      120       180       700      ---     151.8      151.8
* Follow-up on Personnel Optimization Pilot Study        80       150       230
* Debt Issues Study                                     120       180       300      ---     131.3      131.3
* Follow-up on Environmental Audit and Mitigation Plan   40       60        100
* Follow-up on Pilot Inventory Study                    160       240       400      ---      390        390
* Administrative Support to CAPU                         60       90        150      ---     613.4      613.4
* Legal Aspects of Pre-Capitalization                   400       600      1,000     ---     634.4      614.4
* Establishment of Data Rooms and Operation              80       120       200      ---     186.9      186.9
* Public Information Campaign                           320       480       800      ---     360.5      360.5
* Office equipment and furniture, computers hardware and  32      48        80       ---      41.6      41.6
software for CAPU
* Reservory Studies*                                    ---       ---       ---      ---     218.8      218.8
* Others*                                                ---      ---       ---      ---      41         41
2. Capitalization Implementation Phase                   80       120       200      ---     175.2      175.2
* Preparation of Marketing Strategy and Road Shows       80       120       200      ---     175.2      175.2
Subtotal   1,772    2,668    4,460       ---    3,904.9   3904.9
C. Institutional Strengthening
* ENTE/DGH Org. Study, Set-up & Staffing, and Start-up  600       900      1,500     23       144        167
* Data Bank Unit Org. Study, Set-up & Staffing, and Start-up    400  600   1,000     93       650        743
* Env. Unit Org. Study, Set-up & Staffing, and Start-up  200      300       500     14.7      92        106.7
* HCS at SIRESE Org. Study and Set-up                   360       490       850     24.3      152       176.3
* E&P Promotion Campaign                                 80       120       200       2        18        20
* Training for NSE Personnel                            240       360       600       1        6          7
* Office Equipment and Furniture, Computers Hardware and  168     252       420     38.2      239       277.2
Software for NSE
* Administrative Support for PEU                        100       150       250      ---      400        400
Subtotal   2,148    3,172    5,320   196.2    1,701        1,897.2
Base Cost                                              4,160    6,220    10,380   468.2   7,778.9   8,247.1
Price contingencies                                     360       560       920
Total project cost   4,520    6,780    11,300   468.2   7,778.9   8,247.1
PPF Refinancing                                          ---     2,000    2,000      ---     1,884      1,884
A and C Component                               ---      1,000     1,000     ---      884        884
B Component                                     ---      1,000     1,000     ---
GRAND TOTAL   4,520    8,780    13,300   468.2   8,662.9   9,131.1
Source: SAR and Borrower Finance Department          * Not included in SAR



17
Appraisal Estimate                       Actual
Source of Financing      Local      Foreign      Total       Local     Foreign       Total
_____________________ Costs     Costs                   Costs       Costs
Government of Bolivia      2,660        -----      2,660       468.2 -468.2
IDA                        1,860       8,760       10,640       -----     8,662.9     8,662.9
Total                      4,520       8,780       13,300      468.2      8,662.9     9,131.1
Source: SAR and Borrower Finance Department
SAR                        ICR Re-estimate
Production
Major Costs                                  Not                              Not
Capital Costs ($ million)                 Applicable                      Applicable
Operating Costs ($ million)
Economic Rate of Return (%)
Source: Project Files
4                                              _,
Statement number and title              Describe and comment on lack of compliance
There has been no lack of compliance with applicable Bank Policies and Procedures
Source: Project Files



18
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Agreement -Section           Type   Status    Date    Revse    Description of Covenant
Credit Agreement
CA 2.02 (b)                    13        C                             GOB to open special account for purposes of Parts A (Legal and Regulatory
(_________ )Framework) and C (Institutional Strengthening) of the Project
CA 2.02(c)                     13        C                             GOB to open special account for purposes of Parts B (Capitalization of YPFB)
CA_2.02(c)  13  C                          of the Project
GOB to carry out Part A and C of the Project through PEU and Part B through
CA 3.01 (a)                    10        C                             CAPU
GOB to ensure environmental regulations for the hydrocarbon sector are
CA 3.01 (c)                    6         C                             developed, and to establish mechanisms for reviewing environmental audits
CA 3.01 (f)                    10        C                             GOB to establish an Advisory Committee
CA 4.01(b)                      1        C                             GOB to have project accounts audited and provided to IDA
CA (Schedule 2-Part C-1)    13          c                              GOB to create a petroleum exploration and development promotion databank to
be made available to interested parties
Covenant types:                                                                    Present status:
I =  Accounts/Audits                     8 =  Indigenous People                    C  = covenant complied with
2 =  Financial performance/revenue       9 =  Monitoring, review, and reporting    CD = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries       10=  Project implementation not           CP = complied with partially
3 =  Flow and utilization of project          covered by categories 1-9            NC = not complied with
funds                               11=  Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 =  Counterpart funding                      budgetary or other resource
5 =  Management aspects of the                allocation
project or executing agency         12=  Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 =  Environmental covenants                  regulatory/institutional action
7 =  Involuntary resettlement            13=  Other



19
Stage of                Planned                 Revised                  Actual
Project Cycle        Weeks      US$mm        Weeks      US$mm        Weeks       US$mm
Through appraisal       NR          NR          NR          NR           84        314.50
Board-effectiveness      NR          NR          NR          NR          18.20       70.90
Supervision          NR          NR          NR           NR         50.98       198.58
Completion           NR          NR          NR           NR         7.00        27.27
Total              NR          NR          NR          NR         160.18      611.25
Source: Bank O0S            NR: Not Reported
Performance Rating
Stage of    Month/  Number of  Days in    Specialized Staff   Implementation  Development
Project Cycle   Year    Persons    Field      Skills Represented      Status         Impact
10/95       4                   PE,RE,ES,TS             NA             NA
02/96       5                   PE, RE, ES, TS          NA             NA
Through      05/96       1                        RE                 NA             NA
Appraisal    12/96        1                        ES                NA              NA
03/97       3                    PE, RE, ES             NA             NA
11/95       3        NR          FA, ES, TM              S             HS
3/96        1        NR              FA                  S             HS
7/96        1        NR             TM                  S              HS
Supervision    5/97        1         10            TM                  HS             HS
9/97        1         14            TM                  HS             HS
2/98        1         10             TM                 HS             HS
6/98        1         9             TM                   S              S
12/98       1         10             TM                 HS             HS
Special Staff Skills:
TM   Task Manager              EC   Economist                    FA   Financial Analyst
TS   Technical Specialist      PS   Procurement Specialist       ES   Environment Specialist
PE   Petroleum Engineer        RE  Restructuring Expert
Source: Bank OIS and Project Files  NR = Not Reported   NA = Not Applicable






Appendix A
Page 1 of 5
Appendix A:
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
(Translation from Spanish)
Introduction
The structural reforms being implemented by the Bolivian Government during the past
years have focussed on establishing the most favorable conditions to achieve efficient
allocation of resources within the Bolivian economy and the hydrocarbon sector, and
fundamentally, to create a favorable environment in order for the private sector to
become the protagonist for sustainable development in the long term, as a means to
reduce poverty and increase the population's welfare, while preserving the environment.
The structural reforms also meant a redefinition of the state's role, which implied the
state leaving the production sector and strengthening its policy-making and regulatory
capacity, and the establishment of permanent "rules of the game" so that all the economic
agents operate in the free market and allow the performance of an efficient and
competitive private industry.
The main steps proposed within the sector scope of the structural transformation were the
capitalization of the state-owned company Yacimientos Petrol feros Fiscales Bolivianos
(YPFB), the design and implementation of a new legal and regulatory framework like the
New Hydrocarbons Law (LH) and regulations, and liberalization or deregulation of the
hydrocarbon market, all this within an environment of macroeconomic stability.
In harmony with the main government policy, on July 27, 1995 the Credit Agreement
(Cr. 2762-BO) for a Technical Assistance Project for the reformn and capitalization of the
hydrocarbon sector was signed between the Government of Bolivia and the International
Development Association (IDA), for an amount of SDR 6.8 million, to support the
structural reforms of the hydrocarbon sector. The credit closing date was set for
December 31, 1998.
A.   Project Objectives
The project objectives were aimed to improve the policy and normative framework with
the purpose of completely changing the hydrocarbon sector structure and promoting
private investment in that sector for the benefit of the Bolivian economy, including the
strengthening of the agencies in charge of the design, implementation, evaluation and
regulation of sector activities, and the YPFB capitalization by private investors.
In agreement with the main government policy, the project provided technical assistance
through three components: a) the development and implementation of legal and
regulatory framework for the hydrocarbon sector, b) the design of a strategy that moves



Appendix A
Page 2 of 5
toward the capitalization of the state agency, YPFB, and c) the strengthening of the
agencies in charge of the policy and regulation of the sector.
B.   Achievements of the Objectives
Since 1994, the government has created measures to generate the necessary legal basis
for the reforms in the hydrocarbon sector and the capitalization of the state agency,
YPFB. These measures showed the strong commitment of the Bolivian government to
complete the reforms by approving the following laws, regulations and doing other
activities of institutional strengthening:
B.1   General Laws
- Law No. 15.14 of Capitalization of March 21 1994. This is a general law of
capitalization of all public companies, including the petroleum state-owned company
YPFB, and basically authorizes the transfer of the state-owned companies shares for the
creation of Sociedades An6nimas Mixtas (SAM) or joint ventures, the capitalization of
each public company, the transference of the shares of these companies to the Bolivian
citizens older than 21 years, the establishment of the Trust Fund before the creation of the
Pension Fund and the subrogation to the state of the companies' debts before their
capitalization or sale.
-The Sectoral Regulation System Law (SIRESE) - Law NO. 1600 of October 29 1994.
This law defines the activities to be regulated, the authorities responsible for the
implementation of the regulations and the establishment of mechanisms of impeachment
and litigation interposed by investors, consumers and public authorities.
-The General Tax System Law (N. 1606) of December 22 1994 that emended the General
Law N.843 May 20 1995. This law creates a 25% tax on the utilities and introduces the
Special Tax to the Hydrocarbons and its Derivatives (IERD), which is a tax to
consumption of specific Petroleum Derivatives.
B.2   Laws and Regulations Specific to the Hydrocarbon Sector
The objective of the Hydrocarbon Law of April 30, 1996 was to create conditions to
attract private participation in the hydrocarbon sector and force the development of all the
related activities: (i) exploration, exploitation and commercialization of hydrocarbons
through risk contracts between YPFB and the private sector, with hydrocarbon transport
and natural gas distribution under administrative concessions; (ii) in commercialization,
the establishment of unrestricted export and import of liquids after guaranteeing the
supply of the local market, with the exception of natural gas; and (iii) the refining and
industrialization by YPFB and third parties.  In addition, this law introduced a
competitive tax and royalties system for the upstream, and the new institutional
organization of hydrocarbon sector.
The Surtax law of November 25 1996 (Law N. 16119) introduced in the general system
of taxes, the concept of a surtax on the exploitation of non-renewable resources
(hydrocarbons and mining), through an additional rate of 25% to the utilities tax,
previous to the deduction for the second time of the investments and a proportion of the



Appendix A
Page 3 of 5
gross production (applicable to large discoveries that generate important surtaxes), these
surtaxes being collectible by the state.
Finally, the development and approval of 25 regulations, that regulate among other
aspects: (i) Institutional, as the organization of the sector; (ii) Tributary, as the payment
of bonuses and participation on the production of hydrocarbons and the surtax; (iii)
Upstream, as the relinquishment and retention of areas, technical units of exploration,
right-of-path and right-of-way, commercialization of natural gas; (iv) Tariffs of transport
of hydrocarbons for pipelines; (v) Prices of the derivatives, environmental aspects of the
hydrocarbon sector and environmental liabilities; and (vi) Technical and security of all
the upstream and downstream activities. Two important regulations are in process of
completion: the handling of oil operations inside indigenous territories and the
distribution of natural gas systems.
All these legal dispositions and regulations were promulgated as supporting instruments
for the execution of the strategy, policies of the hydrocarbon sector.
B.3  Institutional Strengthening
At the same time, technical assistance was granted with the project for the sector's
institutional strengthening process, the initial establishment of the staff and the beginning
of operations of the hydrocarbon sector institutions, including General Directorate of
Hydrocarbons (DGH) now denominated Vice-presidency of Negotiations and Contracts
(VPNC), the Data Bank denominated National Center of Hydrocarbon Information
(CNIH), the ex-secretariat of Energy, now Vice ministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons
(VMEH) and the Superintency of Hydrocarbons (SUPHYD). Additionally, a promotion
campaign for upstream areas was done in Houston as the first bidding round after having
promulgated the Law of the Hydrocarbons and some of its regulations and finally the
personnel's training and furniture acquisition and equipment for these institutions.
C.   Major Factors Affecting the Project
Among the factors that affected the project's implementation process are the following:
- The available time was not enough to do such deep structural reforms within the
hydrocarbon sector in spite of technical assistance received through IDA and other
organisms like CIDA.
- The resistance of the state-owned company employees and other labor and civic
organizations of the country.
- Lack of flexibility for the design of a tax system for the upstream, which should be
competitive with other countries' and neutral from the fiscal revenues point of view.
This fact originates a trade off among these two factors.
- The influence in the definition of the capitalization strategy of the state-owned
company YPFB, country partners and some international private companies.
- Government's lack of counterpart resources and knowledge of the financing entity
procedures.



Appendix A
Page 4 of 5
- Service of the capitalized company's debt and the costs involved by the
rationalization process, the discharge of YPFB employees, factors of fiscal imbalance
that could be partly originated in the fiscal competitive system, and the tendency of
international prices to drop, which have diminished the transfers from the
hydrocarbon sector to the Nation's General Treasury (TGN).
D.    Project Sustainability
The structural reforms carried out in the hydrocarbon sector can be sustainable in the long
term, however it is necessary to evaluate the factors that support the sustainability and
those that could affect it.
D.1   Factors that Support Sustainability
-  Investments committed in the hydrocarbon sector that would allow the fulfillment of
the hydrocarbon policy's general objective of substantially increasing the
hydrocarbons reserves, produce enough liquids to guarantee the supply in the medium
term and generate exportable quantities in the long term, as well as the market
diversification for the exportation of natural gas, transforming Bolivia in the Southern
Cone's Distribution "Hub."
- The natural gas exports agreements with Brazil were finalized; the gas pipeline
construction was complete at the end 1998 and started of gas export during the first
trimester of 1999.
- Democracy and macroeconomic stability accompanied by liberalization of capital
flows, freedom to import and export, deregulation of activities and prices, and the
establishment of a more simplified tributary system with credibility in other countries,
etc.
- Establishment of levies and participations to support the establishrnent and
strengthening of sector institutions, although in some cases these levies are not
enough.
- Privatization of the remainder activities of YPFB and other minor companies in other
sectors.
D.2   Potential Factors Against Sustainability
- During the implementation stage and enactment of the hydrocarbon sector laws and
regulations, the lack of financial and human resources was evident in some
institutions of the sector. This is the case of the Vice Ministry of Energy and
Hydrocarbons, which did not have the necessary financial resources to fulfill its role
as supervisor of the environmental aspects, and this has determined that they cannot
attract and maintain qualified human resources in a sector where important revenues
are generated for the country; this also applies on a lesser extent to the VPNC.
- The implied cost derived form the structural reforms process like: the financial cost of
the debts subrogated to the state as a result of the capitalization process; the
maintenance cost of the old system of pensions for citizens 65 years and older; and



Appendix A
Page 5 of 5
those derived from a reduction in the sector contribution to the public finances as a
result of the establishment of competitive tributary system and the drop of
hydrocarbons international prices.
E.    Performance of the Financing Entity
IDA provided technical and financial assistance to the country in agreement with the
policy of the government, and that assistance was done opportunely. The support
provided through the credit agreement 2762BO for the Reform of the Hydrocarbon
Sector and Technical Assistance for the Capitalization, has been fundamental in hiring
international and local consultant firms, as well as individual consultants that helped to
make all the necessary studies, to carry out the structural reforms process, the design of
the new legal and regulatory framework, the design of the capitalization strategy and
some conceptual discrepancies with the position or strategy defined by the government
for the upstream on the part of financing entity. The financial support for the initial
establishment and strengthening of the institutional organization of the sector has also
been indispensable and invaluable.
F.    Project Contribution to the Objectives
The structural reforms carried out by the government in the hydrocarbon sector and in the
economy as a whole have established new rules of the game and institutions in the sector
generating a favorable atmosphere for the private sector investment, internationally
perceived by the private sector as a reduction of risk of the country and the oil industry,
this aspect have been translated in investment commitments around of 4.3 million dollars
for the next years for the upstream and transport activities only, this represent 10 times
more the state annual investments and 3 times superior to the investments within the
sector during past years of highest investment.
G.   Future Operations
The government decided to extend the structural reforms in the hydrocarbons sector by
the privatization of the YPFB remainders units and strengthening institutions like the
VPNC and, fundamentally, the VMEH, head of the sector, to improve its policy-making
capacity and the carrying out of its functions regarding the collection of royalties and
profit shares, and of environmental supervision in the hydrocarbon sector, functions that
will require of financial support.






IBRD 26624R
68'                      66         '             64                     62                      60'                            1 0
_                                                ~~~~~~~~~B O L I V I A
-10  B R A Z I L   /                                   \OIL, GAS AND PRODUCT
FACILITIES AND NETWORK
MAJOR GAS FIELDS
Cobija   PA  N  D 0O II                                                                                  MAJOR OIL FIELDS
- - ,- -    PROJECTED GAS PIPELINE          12
OIL AND PRODUCT PIPELINES
GAS PIPELINES
REFINERY
X   GAS PLANTS
U           , MAIN PRODUCT DEPOTS
LU                         L.R~~~~~~~ogaguado
LR        EThe boundaries, colors,
L.<'                            L.Sao             ~denominations and any
.           a 4 <   3    0 t igucg . nto  I.us --                                             atL  s other informatiaon shwn  14'
Ana      Ti,,,,.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                        a~~n this map do not
-14'                                                                                                                           imply, an the part of
1 4    '   c  S(   m      /   n a p    ; 2 .   l        <  g                      \            \      T h e   W o r l d   B a n k   G r o u p ,
f  I,                /                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~any judgment on the legal
^  <Trinidoiad                                                   status of any territory,
or any endorsement
or acceptance of such
boundaries.
(' T hs"i. ca, 
~ C0CHA8AMB                         '                                                            RILA PA
18)   >                          ( '                       X    _    ( """                           2 
016                             Lae~
rico   ~ ~~~~aP ooP ert
taaa                                                                            T  A ; nj       \r  Jiio
C ILEA                                   G E N TINAasa                                           . C  l
20                           150~ 200  20U                         DEARM          AITA LS                           S PA   AG  U         AY
0   S                             IN POe                                                   -                           h
-2                                         5-8 I164                                            1t                              RETN 
uertoJUN  199
m    t   eti ~        ~     ~    ~     Ams                *w,C~
t  IOU*                     NTOALCPTL                              4                        ..'-            -
21'    5   10   5020   20             DPATMNTCAITLSPA RA G U   \ARGAY
I  I    I    I    I    I ~ ~~~~~~~~~   DPARntMeNTBONDRIS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIESU                                        B   A    I 
NATIONAL CAPITAL~RENTNA 
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES ~ ~   ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     JNE  99



