CREDIT NUMBER 2762 BO
Development Credit Agreement
(Hydrocarbon Sector Reform and
Capitalization Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated           ,1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2762 BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                        , 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
BOLIVIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section
3.02 deleted and second sentence of Section 5.01 modified to read as follows, (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawal shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories
of any country which is not a member of the Association or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the
purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association,
is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)    "CAPU" means the unit for the capitalization of each MEC (as defined
below), established by means of MOC's Resolution No. 006/95 of March 27, 1995,
reporting to MOC, physically located in, and assisted by, YPFB (as defined below),


﻿-2-
operating under terms of reference set forth in the letter to the Association from the
Borrower's Deputy Secretary for Public Investment and External Financing of the
National Finance Secretariat, dated May 17, 1995, and to be maintained pursuant to the
provisions of Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement;
(b)    "DGH" means the Direcci6n General de Hidrocarburos the Borrower's
general directorate for hydrocarbons within NSE (as defined below) or such other
directorate or agency as the Association shall agree;
(c)    "HCS" means the Hydrocarbons Superintendency, the      sectoral
superintendency to be established pursuant to the provisions of Law No. 1600 referred to
in paragraph (1) below;
(d)    "Hydrocarbons Law" means a law governing and regulating the activities
of the different economic agents operating, currently or in the future, in the hydrocarbon
sector of Bolivia to be enacted by the Borrower according substantially to the draft
referred to in page 2 of the letter submitted by the Borrower's Minister without portfolio
in charge of capitalization matters to the Association, dated April 11, 1995, as said draft
is supplemented by the terms of the said letter;
(e)    "MEC" means each mixed corporation (Sociedad An6nima Mixta) into
which YPFB (as defined below) will be transformed pursuant to the provisions of the
Borrower's Law No. 1544 of March 21, 1994 (Ley L Capitalizaci6n) published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette on March 22, 1994;
(f)    "MOC" means the office of the Borrower's Minister without portfolio in
charge of capitalization matters;
(g)    "NSC" means the National Secretariat of Capitalization within MOC;
(h)    "NSE" means the National Secretariat of Energy within the office of the
Borrower's Minister without portfolio in charge of economic development matters;
(i)    "NSNRE" means the Borrower's National Secretariat of Natural Resources
and the Environment within the Borrower's Ministry of Sustainable Development and the
Environment;
(j)    "PEU" means the Project implementation unit within NSE established by
means of the Resolution No. 50 of March 28, 1995 of the Borrower's Minister without
portfolio in charge of economic development matters, operating under the terms of
reference described in the letter to the Association, dated May 17, 1995, referred to in


﻿-3-
paragraph (a) of this Section and to be maintained pursuant to the provisions of Section
3.01 (f) of this Agreement;
(k)    "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advances
granted by the Association to the Borrower, PPF No. 727-0-BO (Hydrocarbon Sector
Deregulation Project) and No. 727-1-BO (Hydrocarbon Sector Reform and Capitalization
Project), pursuant to exchanges of letters dated June 22, 1992 and July 17, 1992, and June
23, 1995, respectively, between the Borrower and the Association, as said advance No.
727-0-BO has been amended from time to time up to the date herewith;
(1)    "SIRESE" means Sistema de Regulaci6n Sectorial (Sectoral Regulatory
System), the system being established, pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower's Law
No. 1600, of October 28, 1994 published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on October
28, 1994 (the SIRESE Law), as such SIRESE Law will be supplemented by the
corresponding provisions of the respective sectoral laws which have been or will be
enacted by the Borrower's Legislative Branch, with the purposes of regulating, controlling
and supervising the activities in the telecommunications, power, hydrocarbons,
transportation and water supply sectors, and other sectors which by virtue of other
legislative provisions may be incorporated later to the system, which system shall be
governed by a Superintendencia General (General Superintendency) and the respective
Superintendencias Sectoriales (Sectoral Superintendencies);
(m)    "Special Account for CAPU" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(n)    "Special Account for PEU" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement; and
(o)    "YPFB" means Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos, the
Borrower's hydrocarbons company established pursuant to the provisions of the
Borrower's Decree-Law of December 21, 1936, as amended up to and including the
Effective Date or, if later, the date of promulgation of the Hydrocarbon Law, and the term
includes each and every subsidiary of YPFB, including, but not limited to, YABOG.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in


﻿-4-
various currencies equivalent to six million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 6,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts A and C of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account to be titled Special Account for PEU,
in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account for PEU shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part B of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account to be titled Special Account for CAPU, in
its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account for CAPU shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(d)    Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to
repay the principal amount of each of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of each of the Project Preparation Advances shall
thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or such later date as
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates


﻿-5-
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions
of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each May
15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 2005 and ending May 15, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2015 shall be one percent
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
(b)    Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five
consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.


﻿-6-
(c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph
(a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Executive Directors of CAPU and PEU, or the corresponding
person or persons appointed by each of them, are designated as representatives of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions,
in connection with Parts B, and A and C of the Project, respectively.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out: (i)
Parts A and C of the Project through PEU; and (ii) Part B of the Project through CAPU,
with the assistance of YPFB, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate economic, financial and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the monitoring targets for Projects activities, both
as set forth in the attachments to a supplemental letter of even date herewith.
(c)    Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall: (i) ensure that from time to time, as and when needed,
environmental regulations for the hydrocarbon sector are developed; (ii) establish from
time to time, as and when needed, mechanisms for reviewing environmental audits for
existing facilities of and operations by YPFB and other companies currently operating in
Bolivia, and in the future, for carrying out environmental impact assessments, if
warranted, for all new or rehabilitated hydrocarbon facilities in Bolivia; (iii) ensure that
there shall be at all times coordination between the Borrower's agencies involved in
environmental matters; (iv) ensure that the various responsibilities for monitoring


﻿-7-
environmental aspects of the hydrocarbon sector are clearly delineated for the Borrower's
agencies involved; (v) maintain and consolidate the group of personnel, which will
become the nucleus for the environmental unit that shall be established in NSE on the
basis of the preparatory work to be carried out under Part C.3 of the Project pursuant to
the provisions of paragraph (e) (iv) in this section.
(d)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Borrower shall: (i) maintain during the period of Project implementation, with an
organizational structure satisfactory to the Association, the PEU and the CAPU; (ii)
appoint directors and personnel for the PEU and the CAPU who shall have qualifications
and experience acceptable to the Association; and (iii) consult with the Association with
respect to any changes to the organizational structures referred to in subparagraph (i) of
this paragraph, and the replacement of the directors or professional personnel thereof,
prior to any such change or replacement.
(e)    Without restriction or limitation to the preceding provisions of this
Section, the Borrower shall organize four working groups to be directly supervised by and
reporting to, the Borrower's National Secretary of Energy, each of them to be in charge
of one of the following tasks: (i) day-to-day activities under Part A of the Project; (ii)
analysis of petroleum product prices deregulation and taxation, in close coordination with
the Borrower's National Secretary of Finance; (iii) day-to-day activities under Part C.1
and C.2 of the Project, the reorganization of DGH and forming the nucleus of the
organizational structure to be established under Part C.1 of the Project; and (iv) day-to-
day activities under Parts C.3 and C.5 of the Project, provided, however, that, once either
Part C.3 or Part C.5 of the Project have been completed, this group shall split so as to
form the nuclei of, respectively, the environmental unit and HCS to be designed under
such Parts C.3 and C,5. The Borrower shall provide the aforesaid groups with all such
resources as shall be necessary for the carrying out of their respective tasks.
(f)    In view of the fact that coordination among the Borrower's National
Secretariat of Finance and the office of the Minister without portfolio in charge of
economic development matters, MOC, NSE, NSC, NSNRE and YPFB will be
indispensable for the carrying out of the Project, and without restriction or limitation to
the preceding provisions of this Section, the Borrower shall, by a date not later than 30
days from the Effective Date, establish an Advisory Committee whose members shall be
the Borrower's Minister without portfolio in charge of capitalization matters (Chairman),
Minister without portfolio in charge of economic development matters, Minister of
Finance, National Secretary of Energy, National Secretary of Capitalization, National
Secretary of Natural Resources and Environment, National Secretary of Finance, and the
President of YPFB.


﻿-8-
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. In view of the preparatory nature of many of the activities to be
carried out under the Project, and the natural uncertainties related to the future enactment
of the Hydrocarbons Law and to the progress of the capitalization process under the
Borrower's Law No. 1544, the Borrower shall: (a) ensure that the terms of reference for
each set of consultant services to be contracted under the Project have been thoroughly
discussed with and approved by the Association, before entering into the corresponding
contract; (b) phase the activities to be carried out under each of such contracts to take into
account the aforesaid uncertainties, if appropriate; and (c) phase the payments to be made
under each of the contracts falling under (b) above in a fashion which is consistent with
the phasing of the activities pertaining to the contract in question.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and separate accounts referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section, including those for the Special Account for
PEU and Special Account for CAPU, for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case
not later than four months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and


﻿-9-
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintined, in accordance with paragraph
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such
expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Association has received
the audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine such records;
and
(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:
(a)    any action or measure shall have been taken by the Borrower in the
hydrocarbon sector in Bolivia which, in the opinion of the Association, shall materiaily
and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or any Part thereof or make it
improbable that any of the objectives of the Project be attained; and


﻿- 10 -
(b)    The Resolution No. 57/95 of YPFB's Board of Directors dated May 10,
1995 shall have been abrogated or changed, or shall have not been enforced.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the
following events are specified, namely, that any of the events specified in paragraph (b)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The date of id      /; 1I5  is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Borrower's Minister of Finance and/or the Borrower's Secretary
of Finance are severally designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance and/or Secretary of Finance
Ministerio de Hacienda or
Secretaria Nacional de Hacienda
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n
Casilla Postal No. 9917
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:                    Telex:
FINANZA                       2617 (FINANZA BV)
La Paz, Bolivia


﻿- 11 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                      248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.              82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Latin merica and the Caribbean


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit                % of
Allocated           Expenditures
(Expressed             into be
Category                         SDR Equivalent)          Financed
(1)    Goods under                        30,000         100% of foreign
Part B of the                                     expenditures,
Project                                            100%    of  local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 84% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(2)    Goods under                       160,000         100% of foreign
Part C of                                         expenditures,
the Project                                        100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 84%
of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3)    Consultants' Services,          2,660,000         100%
Training and
Administrative Support
under Parts A and C
of the Project, including
fees for audits
performed under
Section 4.01 of this
Agreement


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit            % of
Allocated        Expenditures
(Expressed          into be
Categorv                      SDR Equivalent)      Financed
(4)    Consultants'                    2,270,000          100%
Services and
Administrative Support
under Part B of the
Project, including fees
for audits performed
under Section 4.01 of
this Agreement
(5)    Refunding of                     1,270,000         Amounts due
Project                                            pursuant to
Preparation                                        Section 2.02
Advances                                           (d) of this Agreement
(6)    Unallocated                       410,000
TOTAL                     6,800.000
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
(c)    the term "Administrative Support" means, in respect of each of PEU and
CAPU, salaries for their respective support staff, and their respective operational
expenditures in connection with communication services, office supplies and local travel
by their staff and related per-diem; and


﻿- 14 -
(d)    the term "Training" means expenditures incurred under Part C.6 of the
Project in respect of travel by trainees and related per-diem, organization of workshops
and conferences (other than meals and beverages), training materials and, if applicable,
tuition or fees.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR
680,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before the date of
this Agreement but after September 30, 1994.
4.     The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts
costing less than $25,000 equivalent; (b) consulting firms' services and individual
consultants' services under contracts costing less than $60,000 equivalent and $30,000
equivalent, respectively, except in the cases provided for in the last paragraph of point 2
of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (c) items stipulated under
subparagraphs (c) and (d) of paragraph 1 of this Schedule; all of the above under such
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to develop the policy and regulatory framework
for: (i) the reform of the Borrower's hydrocarbon sector, including the strengthening of
the Borrower's agencies which will be monitoring and regulating activities in the sector;
and (ii) the capitalization, by private investors, of each MEC to be created with YPFB's
assets under the process provided for under the Borrower's Law No. 1544 referred to in
Section 1.02 (e) of this Agreement (hereinafter and for purposes of this Schedule referred
to as the capitalization process).
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A:       Legal and Regulatory Framework
1.     Analytical studies and preliminary activities for the design and eventual putting
into effect of a legal and regulatory framework for the sector, including drafting, leading
to the final drafting, and formalization of: (a) regulations to the Hydrocarbons Law which
are consistent with those to the SIRESE Law referred to in Section 1.02 (1) of this
Agreement; (b) model concession or other type of contracts, as applicable, such as
contracts for the exploration, production, pipeline transportation, and distribution of
hydrocarbons, all in the Borrower's territory; and (c) environmental regulations, standards
and norms with respect to activities related to the exploration, production, transport and
refining of hydrocarbons and distribution of petroleum products and natural gas, all in the
Borrower's territory, all of the above to be consistent with the provisions of such
Hydrocarbons Law.
2.     Reviewing of all legal aspects of natural gas distribution concessions and
identification of YPFB's financial and other liabilities arising from YPFB's current legal
relationship with natural gas distribution companies, all with a view of YPFB's
withdrawal from such relationships pursuant to the capitalization process.
Part B:       Capitalization of each MEC
1.     Carrying out of a technical and financial valuation of YPFB assets, particularly
physical assets.


﻿- 16 -
2.     Analysis of YPFB's business units and cost centers in order to define the best
options for packaging such units for the purposes of the capitalization process.
3.     Following-up on the findings and conclusions of a preliminary human resources
study, identification of issues related with, and preparation of a program for, the
optimization of YPFB's personnel.
4.     Analysis of the structure and composition of YPFB's debt, and related issues, in
order to determine their impact on the capitalization process, and to define how much of
YPFB's debt would be allocated to each MEC and how said allocation would be
materialized.
5.     Following-up on the initial stages of the two already commissioned environmental
audits of all YPFB's installations and operations which included, inter alia, the
development of respective plans for mitigation actions related to environmental concerns
arising from YPFB's activities, and following the recommendations of the said studies,
this Part B.5 of the Project will consist of the development (prior to tendering for bids
under the capitalization process) of an overall mitigation plan that will contain: (a) the
actions to be carried out prior and after the capitalization of each MEC under the
capitalization process; (b) the definition of which of the corresponding environmental
responsibilities will be imputed to the MEC in question; and (c) the determination of the
timeframe for the respective mitigation actions.
6.     Following-up on the existing pilot study of inventory of YPFB's refining
warehouses, a full scale inventory study of the remaining YPFB's warehouses that shall
analyze inventory problems, enable the preparation of a plan for the disposal of YPFB's
obsolete materials and equipment, and report realistic figures for inventory assets in YPFB
and MECs balance sheets.
7.     Strengthening of CAPU's management and technical capabilities in order to
enable it to fulfill its respective role in the MEC capitalization process.
8.     Analyses of issues (primarily legal issues) involved in, and preparation of the
documentation required for: (a) creation, out of YPFB, of each MEC, including drafting
and processing required regulations to the Borrower's Law No. 1544 (Capitalization Law)
which directly relate to such creation; and (b) the regularization of YPFB's titles to all
its assets, particularly in preparation for the aforesaid transformation, all of the above
based on the relevant aspects of the findings and recommendations resulting from other
Parts of the Project, particularly Parts B.1 through 7 above, and including analyses of
punctual legal issues which may arise in connection with the carrying out of said Parts
B.1 through 7.


﻿- 17 -
9.     Preparation of the bidding, and other legal documents, related to the capitalization
of each MEC by private investors under the capitalization process, and provision of legal
assistance to the Borrower in the process of evaluation of bids submitted by prospective
investors, negotiation therewith and drafting of agreements and documents required to
formalize the capitalization of each MEC and all transactions related thereto.
10.    Carrying out an information campaign directed to the YPFB's personnel, trade
unions, political parties and the public at large, about MEC capitalization process and
strategy therefor in order to raise public awareness and enhance public endorsement of
said process.
11.    Establishment of data rooms in Bolivia and certain foreign countries to provide
information, particularly to prospective investors, about YPFB, each MEC and the
Borrower's hydrocarbon sector.
12.    Definition and implementation of a marketing strategy for the capitalization of
YPFB, including the required road shows with the assistance of an investment bank.
13.    Acquisition and utilization for all of the above of office furniture and materials,
computers, software, and equipment such as printers and photocopying and facsimile
machines.
Part C:       Institutional Strengthening
1.     Strengthening of DGH's capacity to be involved in preparatory activities leading
to the establishment, initial staffing and start-up operations of an appropriate
organizational structure satisfactory to the Association, as provided for under the
Hydrocarbons Law, which will, inter alia, formulate the policies for, and promote, the
exploration and production of hydrocarbons, negotiate concession or other types of
contracts with investors and provide, through the life of said contracts, for the counterpart
to said investors on behalf of the Borrower, implement a bank of data (to be made
available to interested parties, including contractors and oil companies) composed of
technical information and physical samples related to, and provided under, the
hydrocarbon activities currently performed by YPFB and all other contractors, enforce the
technical and safety standards applicable to hydrocarbon operations, and monitor
concession and operations contract to ensure compliance of obligations thereunder,
including, but not limited to, compliance of investors' obligations, particularly those
concerning: (i) investing in exploration and production activities under, but not limited
to, the capitalization process; and (ii) training of Bolivian individuals.


﻿- 18 -
2.     Design of a unit within the organizational structure referred to in Part C.1 above
that shall manage the data bank also referred to in Part C. I above, and determination of
its staffing needs.
3.     Design of the organizational structure and determination of initial staffing and
start-up needs of a unit in NSE to monitor compliance with the environmental regulations,
norms and standards applicable in respect of the hydrocarbon sector, including indigenous
population and ecological issues, particularly in remote areas.
4.     Carrying out of a promotion campaign to attract private investments for
exploration and production activities in the hydrocarbon sector.
5.     Design of the organizational structure and determining staffing and start-up needs
of HCS.
6.     Training of NSE's personnel and personnel for the organizational structure
referred to in Part C. 1 of the Project, of the units referred to in Parts C.2 and 3 of the
Project, and of HCS, in data bank management, enforcement of technical, safety and
environmental regulations, implementation of promotional campaigns, and contract
negotiation and management, as applicable, and, in general, monitoring the corresponding
activities in the hydrocarbon sector.
7.     Acquisition and utilization for all of the above of office furniture and materials,
computers, software, equipment such as printers and photo-copying and facsimile
machines, and 2 four-wheel drive vehicles for the working group referred to in Section
3.01 (e) (iv) of this Agreement and to be eventually transferred to the unit referred to in
Part C.3 of the Project.
8.     Strengthening of PEU's management and technical capabilities in order to enable
it to fulfill its role in the hydrocarbon sector reform process.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.    Procurement of Goods
Part A:       General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:       International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the
Guidelines, subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2.63, 2.64 and 2.65 thereof.
Part C:       Other Procurement Procedures
1.     Limited International Bidding
Goods and groups of goods estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $25,000
but less than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, and goods, which the Bank agrees
can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof,
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.     National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or less per contract, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:       Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitation to prequalify for bidding or to bid for
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the


﻿- 20 -
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association,
and with the provisions of said paragraph.
2.     Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$25,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded, in accordance
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of
contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I of this Section, the provisions of
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, short
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $60,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals
estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $60,000 equivalent or above;
or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $30,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account for PEU
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (2) and (3), as set forth
in the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A and C of the Project, as
applicable, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
(c)    the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $300,000
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in this Special Account pursuant
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$150,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account under the
Eligible Categories plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal
to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 630,000.
2.     Payments out of this Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish this Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in this Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b)    (i)    For replenishment of this Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into this Special
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 22 -
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into this Special Account such amount as
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of
this Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of this Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association
shall not be required to make further deposits into this Special Account:
(a)    if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit
of the records and accounts for the Special Account for PEU or the Special Account for
CAPU;
(c)    if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account under the eligible Categories pursuant to the provisions of
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the


﻿- 23 -
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount
of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.     (a)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account for PEU or Special Account for CAPU: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule or to
paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, respectively; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the corresponding Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further
deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in this Special Account.
(d)    Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account for CAPU
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (4), as set forth
in the table in paragraph I of Schedule I to this Agreement;
(b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of services required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement; and
(c)    the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $600,000
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in this Special Account pursuant
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$350,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawal from the Credit Account under the
Eligible Categories plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal
to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,270,000.
2.     Payments out of this Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that this Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish this Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in this Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b)    (i)    For replenishment of this Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into this Special
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 25 -
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into this Special Account such amount as
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of
this Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under
the eligible Category and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of this Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association
shall not be required to make further deposits into this Special Account:
(a)    if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit
of the records and accounts for the Special Account for PEU or the Special Account for
CAPU;
(c)    if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account under the eligible Categories pursuant to the provisions of
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the


﻿- 26 -
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount
of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in this Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.     (a)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account for PEU or Special Account for CAPU: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule or to
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, respectively; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the corresponding Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further
deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in this Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in this Special Account.
(d)    Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
- Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


