                                 Document of
                              The World Bank

                          FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY



                                                  Report No: ICR00002837



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (IDA-42770 TF-93520)



                                    ON A

                                   CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 46.0 MILLION
                      (US$ 68.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF KENYA

                                    FOR A

              NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT



                                 July 22, 2014




Environment and Natural Resources (GENDR)
AFCE2
Africa Region
                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective July 31, 2013)

              Currency Unit = Kenya Shilling (Ksh)
                    Ksh 1.00 = US$ 0.0115
                      US$ 1.00 = Ksh 87

                        FISCAL YEAR
                       July 1 – June 30

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASDSP    Agricultural Sector Development Support Program
CBOs     Community Based Organizations
CDD      Community Driven Development
CFA      Community Forest Association
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
EIRR     Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
ESIA     Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
ESMF     Environment and Social Management Framework
ESMP     Environmental and Social Management Plan
FMP      Forestry Management Plan
FRA      Forest Resource Assessment
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GIS      Geographic Information System
GoK      Government of Kenya
Ha       Hectares
IAs      Implementing Agencies
IDA      International Development Association
IE       Impact Evaluation
IP       Indigenous People
IP-ERS   Investment Program for the Economic Recovery Strategy for Wealth
         and Employment Generation
IPPF     Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework
IPMP     Integrated Pest Management Plan
IWRM     Integrated Water Resource Management
IWUA     Irrigation Water User Association
I&D      Irrigation and Drainage
KARI     Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
KenGen   Kenya General Electric Company
KFS      Kenya Forest Service
Ksh      Kenyan Shilling
KSS      Kenya Soils Survey
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation



                               ii
MCM      Million Cubic Meters
MENR     Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
MEWNR    Ministry of Environment, Water and Natural Resources
MIS      Management Information System
MoU      Memorandum of Understanding
MTR      Mid Term Review
MoFW     Ministry of Forestry and Wildlife
MoWI     Ministry of Water and Irrigation
MRS      Mwea Rehabilitation Scheme
NACOFA   National Alliance for Community Forest Association
NEMA     National Environmental Management Authority
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
NIB      National Irrigation Board
NPV      Net Present Value
NRM      Natural Resources Management
NRMP     Natural Resources Management Project
NRP      National Resettlement Policy
O&M      Operations and Maintenance
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PCO      Project Coordination Office (MoWI)
PDO      Project Development Objective
PF       Process Framework
PO       Partner Organizations
RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
REDD     Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation
RP       Restructuring Paper
RPF      Resettlement Policy Framework
SCMP     Sub Catchment Management Plan
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SHG      Self Help Groups
SLM      Sustainable Land Management
US$      United States Dollars
VMG      Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups
VMGP     Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups Plan
WaSSIP   Water Supply and Sewerage Project
WRM      Water Resources Management
WRMA     Water Resources Management Authority
WRUA     Water Resources Users Association
WSCRP    Water Security and Climate Resilience Project

                    Vice President: Makhtar Diop
                 Country Director: Diarietou Gaye
                                    Jonathan Kamkwalala /
                 Practice Manager:
                                    Magda Lovei
             Project Team Leader: Stephen Danyo
                ICR Team Leader: Stephen Danyo


                                 iii
                            REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                  NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT



                                                  CONTENTS


 Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructurings
 I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 14
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 25
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 26
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 28
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 28
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 29
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 30
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 48
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 73
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 75
Annex 6. Lessons Learned ............................................................................................ 86
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents …………….……………………………….91
Annex 8. Map…………………………………………………………………………92




                                                           iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Kenya - Natural
Country:                Kenya                    Project Name:             Resource Management
                                                                           Project
Project ID:             P095050                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-42770, TF-93520
ICR Date:               12/04/2013               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                           KENYA (GOK)
Original Total
                        XDR 46.00M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 37.78M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 41.15M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Water & Irrigation (MWI), Ministry of Forestry & Wildlife
(MFW) - Kenya Forest Service (KFS), National Irrigation Board (NIB), and Water Resources
Management Authority (WRMA)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: None

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       05/11/2005     Effectiveness:           12/10/2007          12/10/2007
Appraisal:            01/11/2007     Restructuring(s):             -              06/24/2011
Approval:             03/27/2007     Mid-term Review:         03/22/2010          03/31/2010
                                     Closing:                 06/30/2013          06/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                     Ratings              Borrower          Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Unsatisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                  Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                               Moderately Satisfactory
                                                  Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                      Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                    Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                      Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation           Indicators      QAG Assessments                     Rating



                                                 v
      Performance                                          (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           Yes                                                None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                      Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                        5                    5
Forestry                                                                31                   39
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                         6                    6
Irrigation and drainage                                                 58                   50


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other rural development                                                  40                  20
Rural services and infrastructure                                        20                  20
Water resource management                                                40                  40
Land management and administration                                       0                   20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                      At ICR                                  At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                          Hartwig Schafer
Country Director:          Diarietou Gaye                        Colin Bruce
                           Jonathan Kamkwalala / Magda
Practice Manager:                                                Karen McConnell Brooks
                           Lovei
Project Team Leader:       Stephen Danyo                         Christine Cornelius
ICR Team Leader:           Stephen Danyo
ICR Primary Author:        Juan Morelli

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The PDO stated in the 2007 Financing Agreement was “to enhance the Recipient's
institutional capacity to manage water and forest resources, reduce the incidence and
severity of water shocks such as drought, floods and water shortage in river catchments




                                                   vi
and improve the livelihoods of communities participating in the co-management of water
and forest resources.” The PAD had different PDO statements. 1
Achievements under the project were to be measured at PDO level by three indicators to
assess the implementing entities’ success in achieving their institutional mandates: (a)
sediment load in rivers in project intervention areas; (b) forest areas under approved
forest management plans; and (c) number of community level interventions rated
satisfactory or higher by the participants.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)

The PDO was revised during a restructuring in June 2011 as follows: “to improve the
management of water and forest resources in selected districts.”
Indicators were updated that were considered more easily measurable, achievable within
the direct influence and scope of project, and more closely tied to the PDO statement.
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                   Original Target        Formally         Actual Value
      Indicator
                                                    Values (from          Revised           Achieved at
    (original and         Baseline Value
                                                      approval             Target          Completion or
       revised)
                                                    documents)             Values          Target Years
    PDO              Percent reduction in sediment load in rivers and water reservoirs in project intervention
    Indicator 1:     areas (dropped)
        Value
    (quantitative or         Not measured                     20%               Dropped           Not measured
      qualitative)
     Date achieved            01/31/2007                   06/30/2013          06/24/2011          06/30/2013
                      Indicator dropped at 2011 project restructuring. The indicator was dropped partially
      Comments        because the baseline was not defined within the first 2 years of implementation, and
       (incl. %       technical and institutional challenges associated with sediment control have deterred
     achievement) progress in implementing sediment reduction interventions. In addition, sedimentation
                      is affected by exogenous variables. Holding a project accountable for sediment
                      reduction is difficult to attribute to the direct sphere of project control. While the
                      project could help measure sedimentation rates, it should not be a PDO level indicator
                      as the project was not in a position to control all factors contributing to changes to
                      sedimentation rates.
    PDO               Area of forests in the project intervention areas being managed according to approved
    Indicator 2:      forest management plans (FMP)
        Value
                                  0 ha                     300,000 ha          300,000 ha          320,000 ha
    (quantitative or



1
  The PDO in the PAD Data Sheet was similar to that in the Financing Agreement but not exactly the same,
while the PDO stated in the main text of the PAD and its results framework was: “to enhance the
institutional capacity to manage water and forest resources in a sustainable and participatory way.”




                                                       vii
 qualitative)
Date achieved              01/31/2007               06/30/2013          06/30/2013        06/30/2013
 Comments          Target exceeded by 106.7% through Nandi, Uasin Gishu and West Pokot Management
  (incl. %         Plans. Awareness on participatory forest management was also conducted in Nyeri and
achievement)       Mt. Elgon with support for the development of their Participatory Forest Maanagement
                   Plans (FMP).
PDO                (A) Investments on CDD micro-projects financed (US$ value) and (B) percent of
Indicator 3:       schemes that are rated as satisfactory or higher by the participants)
    Value
                             US$0                 US$5,000,000       US$5,000,000       US$5,650,000
(quantitative or
                             (0%)                    (80%)            (Dropped)              -
  qualitative)
 Date achieved             01/31/2007               06/30/2013          06/30/2013          06/30/2013
  Comments         172 CDD micro-projects financed under the Project invested 113% of the budgeted
   (incl. %        amount; and the percent of satisfactory or higher ratings by beneficiaries was not
 achievement)      measured. However, qualitative evidence shows high satisfaction (see section 3.6 of
                   the report) and 51% of members were female.
PDO                Increased revenue from water use charges collected by WRMA (Ksh)
Indicator 4:
    Value                                                                                Increased by
                   Increase by Ksh 25 million Increase by Ksh 36
(quantitative or                                                          N/A           Ksh 37 million
                       (total 267 million)          million
  qualitative)                                                                        (total 366 million)
Date achieved               01/31/2011                06/30/2013        06/30/2013           06/30/2013
 Comments          Indicator added at 2011 project restructuring. This indicator measured WRMA’s
  (incl. %         capacity to monitor and regulate water use, using the proxy of increasing revenue
achievement)       collection. The target, which is cumulative, was exceeded as large users like Ken Gen
                   were brought into compliance. The total revenue now stands at Ksh 366 million, from
                   a baseline total of Ksh 267 million, which was made possible by regular attainment of
                   increases in revenue). Further increases seem to be more difficult to attain unless
                   enforcement measures are fortified.
PDO                Community/User Groups collaborating with the GoK institutions in water and/or
Indicator 5:       forest activities (#, % women)
    Value               40 community-user          170 community-                          172 community-
(quantitative or               groups                 user groups            N/A              user groups
  qualitative)            (42 % women)              (50% women)                            (50.5 % women)
 Date achieved              01/31/2011                06/30/2013         06/30/2013           06/30/2013
  Comments         Indicator added at 2011 project restructuring. This indicator measures NRM co-
   (incl. %        management advances in sectors supported by the Project. Target exceeded. Groups
 achievement)      are strongly engaged and participating in NRM in catchment areas, forests and
                   irrigation schemes jointly with WRMA, KFS and NIB.




                                                   viii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                  Original Target                           Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                                   Values (from                              Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                     approval                               Completion or
                                                                  Target Values
                                                   documents)                               Target Years
IOI
                  Number of micro-catchment action plans developed by WRUAs and approved by WRMA
Indicator 1:
     Value
 (quantitative or               0                        30                30                   51
   qualitative)
  Date achieved            01/31/2007                06/30/2013        06/30/2013           06/30/2013
   Comments        Target surpassed by 70%. 51 WRUAs have their Sub-Catchment Management Plans
    (incl. %       (SCMP) approved by WRMA under implementation. WRMA continues facilitating and
  achievement) overseeing the development, approval and implementation of SCMPs through WRUAs
 IOI               Percent of households adopting recommended land use practices in targeted catchments
 Indicator 2:
     Value
 (quantitative or             20%                       80%              Dropped     Dropped, Not measured
   qualitative)
  Date achieved            01/31/2007                06/30/2013        06/24/2011           06/30/2013
   Comments        Indicator dropped at project restructuring. Following SCMPs, improved SLM practices
    (incl. %       were to be applied for reducing erosion and sedimentation of reservoirs. However, there
  achievement) was no defined way to measure households adopting improved SLM practices.
 IOI                Area under irrigation in project intervention areas (hectares)
 Indicator 3:
      Value
                           0 (improved)                               9427 (improved)       9500 (improved)
   (quantitative                                        3500*
                              0 (new)                                   4000 (new)              0 (new)
  or qualitative)
 Date achieved               01/31/2007               06/30/2013        06/30/2013          06/30/2013
    Comments        Partially achieved. The new construction of the Lower Nzoia Irrigation scheme was not
     (incl. %       implemented under NRMP and is being financed under the new IDA-supported Water
  achievement)      Security and Climate Resilience Project (WSCRP) approved in 2013. As such, no new
                    irrigated area was delivered by NRMP for the Lower Nzoia scheme. For the Mwea
                    irrigation rehabilitation works, however, 9500 ha has been improved by rehabilitating
                    7250 ha and expanding 1250 ha into out-grower areas. This achievement is more than the
                    planned target of 9427 ha.

                    * Note: the PAD’s results framework’s indicator did not distinguish between new
                    irrigation and rehabilitated irrigation schemes and listed the target as a generic 3500 ha.
                    The PAD text, however, gave a rehabilitation target of 12,800 ha and an expanded
                    irrigated area target of 3500 ha. The RP’s results framework distinguished explicitly
                    between the two and the Project tracked both to closure.
 IOI                (A) Number of users benefitting from improved irrigation delivery service (dropped
 Indicator 4:       during restructuring); indicator was revised to: (B) Percent satisfied with O&M service
     Value
                              1,700                     30,000             Dropped               Dropped
 (quantitative or
                              54%                          -                80%                   95%
   qualitative)
  Date achieved            01/31/2007                 06/30/2013          06/30/2013           06/30/2013




                                                      ix
 Comments          Indicator A was dropped during project restructuring. Nevertheless, the client revised it
  (incl. %         to indicator B (not an official project indicator) which was then tracked through Project
achievement)       closure. This indicator percentage target was exceeded. Rehabilitation of Mwea and
                   capacity building of 4 schemes helped IWUAs to assume O&M and improve water
                   distribution.
IOI                % cost recovery for O&M of the project’s irrigation investments
Indicator 5:       (dropped during restructuring but measured by client through project closure)
    Value
(quantitative or              85%                        70%                 --                  95%
  qualitative)
 Date achieved             01/31/2007                 06/30/2013          06/30/2013         06/30/2013
  Comments         Target achieved. This indicator was tracked through project closure although it was
   (incl. %        dropped during the 2011 project restructuring. At the time of the restructuring, irrigation
 achievement)      rehabilitation activities were recalibrated to focus on Mwea due to lack of readiness and
                   budget. The new Lower Nzoia could not be built and was moved to a new IDA-financed
                   project, the WSCRP.
IOI                Implementation of KFS five year Strategic Plan activities supported (% of activities)
Indicator 6:
    Value
(quantitative or                0                        70%                60%                  80%
  qualitative)
 Date achieved             01/31/2007               06/30/2013          06/30/2013            06/30/2013
  Comments         The strategic plan was launched in 2009 and KFS institutional capacity was significantly
   (incl. %        enhanced through sector reforms, training of staff, infrastructure, vehicles, and increased
 achievement)      revenues, aiming to support participatory forest conservation and extension.
IOI                (A) Production forests whose management has been transferred to private sector (#
Indicator 7:       transfers); and, (B) Number of new forest investments requests as a result of improved
                   investment climate (# requests)
    Value
                           0 transfers              5 transfers          5 transfers          0 transfers
(quantitative or
                           0 requests               50 requests           dropped              dropped
  qualitative)
 Date achieved             01/31/2007                06/30/2013          06/30/2013         06/30/2013
  Comments         Indicator B was dropped at restructuring. The target for indicator A was not achieved by
   (incl. %        the end of the project period. Guidelines for transfer of management of forests had been
 achievement)      developed but the process was stopped by an NGO, the National Alliance of Community
                   Forest Associations, through a court injunction in 2012. The court ruling was ultimately
                   delivered in June 2013 in favor of the petitioner.
IOI                New area brought under forest cover in project intervention areas
Indicator 8:
    Value
(quantitative or              0 ha                    2,500 ha            3,500 ha             7,124 ha
  qualitative)
 Date achieved             01/31/2007                06/30/2013         06/30/2013            06/30/2013
  Comments         Target surpassed by 285 percent (from original target) and more than 100% (from the
   (incl. %        achievement at the time of the 2011 project restructuring). The achievements were
 achievement)      attained through the involvement of the local forest-based communities organized in
                   Community Forest Associations (CFAs) to supply seedlings and labor paid for by the
                   project. Average survival rate is 75% which is sufficient to restore the degraded sites.
IOI                Number of livelihood based micro-projects supported.* (# CBOs, % women members)
Indicator 9:
    Value                       0                        500                500                  713
(quantitative or                -                         -                (50%)                (51%)



                                                     x
  qualitative)
 Date achieved           01/31/2007              06/30/2013         06/30/2013          06/30/2013
  Comments       Under Component 3 only, a total of 713 CBOs (142% over target) with a membership of
   (incl. %      119,771 citizens (51% women) have been mobilized and trained to implement their own
 achievement)    discrete CDD micro-projects; of these 706 were financed out of 3332 proposals received.
                 4,721 CBO leaders (2077 women) were trained on governance, financial management,
                 and procurement, M&E and reporting.

                 * Note: The RP slightly revised the indicator as above, substituting the word “supported” for the word
                 “completed” that appears in the PAD. The target of 500 remained the same in the PAD and RP.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                                             Actual
       Date ISR
No.                                   DO                                       IP                        Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                                                         (USD millions)
  1   11/20/2007            Satisfactory                        Moderately Unsatisfactory                            0.00
  2   05/20/2008       Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Unsatisfactory                            0.30
  3   11/24/2008       Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Unsatisfactory                            3.85
  4   05/26/2009       Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Unsatisfactory                           12.50
  5   06/30/2009       Moderately Satisfactory                   Moderately Satisfactory                            12.50
  6   08/13/2009       Moderately Satisfactory                   Moderately Satisfactory                            12.50
  7   12/15/2009      Moderately Unsatisfactory                 Moderately Unsatisfactory                           12.50
  8   05/23/2010      Moderately Unsatisfactory                 Moderately Unsatisfactory                           18.50
  9   06/29/2010       Moderately Satisfactory                   Moderately Satisfactory                            20.14
 10   10/23/2010       Moderately Satisfactory                        Satisfactory                                  25.71
 11   03/02/2011       Moderately Satisfactory                        Satisfactory                                  30.89
 12   05/30/2011       Moderately Satisfactory                   Moderately Satisfactory                            30.89
 13   07/20/2011       Moderately Satisfactory                   Moderately Satisfactory                            30.89
 14   10/07/2011       Moderately Satisfactory                   Moderately Satisfactory                            30.89
 15   12/24/2011       Moderately Satisfactory                   Moderately Satisfactory                            30.89
 16   01/23/2012       Moderately Satisfactory                   Moderately Satisfactory                            32.28
 17   09/26/2012       Moderately Satisfactory                   Moderately Satisfactory                            43.81
 18   04/24/2013       Moderately Satisfactory                   Moderately Satisfactory                            49.92
 19   06/30/2013       Moderately Satisfactory                   Moderately Satisfactory                            55.75


H. Restructurings (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                                               Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                                                   Restructuring was to adjust
  06/24/2011                             MS         MS                30.89        project outcomes so that they
                                                                                   were within the control of, and



                                                           xi
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                             Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                   Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                        could be delivered by the
                                                        implementing agencies. It
                                                        included simplifying PDOs,
                                                        changing outcome indicators and
                                                        reallocating 21 percent of credit,
                                                        increase disbursement
                                                        percentages by category and to
                                                        eliminate outdated covenants.
                                                        Credit proceeds totaling US$7.24
                                                        million were cancelled as they
                                                        would not be spent before closing
     06/20/2013                 MS   MS         55.75   due to absorptive capacity
                                                        limitations. The remaining funds
                                                        were also reallocated among
                                                        disbursement categories.


I. Disbursement Profile

As of December 4, 2013, disbursement was 92%. Also, US$7.24 million was cancelled in
the June 2013 restructuring, which does not show on the graph taken from the system:




1.       Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1      Context at Appraisal



                                          xii
1.      At appraisal in 2007, Kenya had one of the most degraded natural resource bases
in the region, while nearly 70% of the population was living on 12% of total land area
classified as medium to high potential for agriculture and livestock production. The
growing population and increasing demand for land, energy, food and water was resulting
in tremendous pressure on natural wealth, impacting economic growth and poverty
reduction. A majority of the rural poor are reliant upon forest, cropland, grazing lands,
and water resources for their livelihoods, which is directly affected in both the short and
long term by degradation of natural wealth including soil erosion, forest loss and
fragmentation, and greater variability of water flow and reduced water quality.
2.      In 2007, Kenya’s water scarcity – which continues today – presents challenges
for managing water, land, and forest resources for multiple uses. There are five main
characteristics that illustrate the difficulty of water management in Kenya: First, the
country has a limited endowment of just 647m3 per capita per year. 2 Second, the annual
rainfall is highly variable in space and time and fluctuates annually by up to 30%.
Changes in climate will likely amplify this variability. Third, the major rivers of Kenya
originate from only five specific forested mountainous areas, and it is widely recognized
that the management of these “water towers” has consequences throughout Kenya.
Fourth, almost 80 % of Kenya is arid or semi-arid, where groundwater is often the only or
the primary freshwater source. Fifth, over half of Kenya’s water resources are shared
with its neighbors, requiring trans-boundary management. Water resources therefore
must be managed cooperatively to avoid exacerbating or creating tensions and ensure that
the benefits of the nation’s water are available to all.
3.       Kenya’s endowment of water, forests, and soil is one foundation for much of the
country’s economic activity, but is vulnerable to natural shocks, mismanagement, and
depletion. The 1997-2000 El Niño / La Niña episodes cost the country 290 billion Ksh,
about 14% of GDP during the three year period 3. In response, the 2002 Water Act
provided for the establishment of a new institutional framework for water resources
management, chiefly through the Water Resources Management Authority (WRMA) and
Water Resource Users Associations (WRUAs). Acute problems in forest management led
the Government of Kenya (GoK) to prepare a new Forest Policy and Forest Law,
approved in July 2005, placing accountability for forest management in the Kenya Forest
Service (KFS) and Community Forest Associations (CFAs) as decentralized partners.
The GoK requested Bank support in implementation of the new policy, which included
institutional reforms and the creation of incentives for the private sector and local
communities to participate in forest co-management and invest in forest conservation for
multiple livelihood options upstream and downstream in sensitive catchments.

1.2      Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators




2
 In mid-2013 a very large aquifer was discovered in the Turkana region that will expand these resources.
3
  World Bank (2004) Towards a Water Secure Kenya: Water Resources Sector Memorandum and Mogaka et al (2006)
Climate Variability and Water Resources Degradation in Kenya: Improving Water Resources Development and
Management, World Bank Working Paper No. 69.


                                                     1
4.       The PDO in the 2007 Financing Agreement was “to enhance the Recipient's
institutional capacity to manage water and forest resources, reduce the incidence and
severity of water shocks such as drought, floods and water shortage in river catchments
and improve the livelihoods of communities participating in the co-management of water
and forest resources.” The PDO in the PAD Data Sheet differed slightly, while the PDO
in the PAD was: “to enhance the institutional capacity to manage water and forest
resources in a sustainable and participatory way.”

5.      Achievements under the project were to be measured at PDO level by three
indicators to assess the implementing entities’ success in achieving their institutional
mandates: (a) sediment load in rivers in project intervention areas; (b) forest area under
approved forest management plans; and (c) number of community level interventions
rated satisfactory or higher by the participants.

1.3       Revised PDO and Key Indicators

6.      In June 2011, the PDO was revised as: “to improve the management of water and
forest resources in selected districts.” Project restructuring clarified the ambiguity
between the Results Framework and the PDO as stated in project documentation.
7.      The Restructuring Paper (RP) stated that the project “was not providing financing
for activities which were designed to actively reduce water shocks in river catchments in
the project areas,” addressing what the Mid Term Review (MTR) team considered an
overly ambitious objective.
8.      Key indicators were then adjusted to better measure progress toward the
achievement of the expected outcomes, which included: (i) replacing indicators that
lacked baseline values 4; and (ii) changing some indicators to align to the revised
objective. The revised indicators are more easily measurable, achievable within the
Project scope, more cost-effective, and more closely tied to the PDO.

1.4       Main Beneficiaries

9.      Direct beneficiaries were not quantified in the PAD or the RP, but in this report
are clustered into five groups: (i) farmers benefitting from irrigation schemes, (ii) diverse
rural residents benefitting from CDD activities in targeted catchment areas, 5 (iii) forest
communities benefitting from CDD activities and improved forest management, (iv) Athi
Water Service Board’s priority water supply dams (Sasumua and Ndakaini) that benefit
from bathymetric surveys of the dam and catchment management, and (v) the
Implementing Agencies (IAs) including the National Irrigation Board (NIB), WRMA and
the KFS, that benefit from staff training and support for institutional reforms.


4
  Two out of four original PDO indicators were substituted: (i) “reduction of sediment load in rivers and reservoirs in
project areas” substituted by “increased revenue from water use charges”; and (ii) “micro-projects that are rated
satisfactory or higher by the participants” substituted by “community/user groups collaborating with GOK institutions
on water and/or forest activities (% of which members are women)”.
5
  The project was located in the Upper Tana Catchment which is part of the Tana River Basin draining into the hydro-
dams Masinga and Kamburu. The area is confined to West and South of Mt. Kenya and East and South of the
Aberdares including the areas around Masinga and Kamburu dams.

                                                           2
10.     There are millions of people who indirectly benefit from the project intervention,
such as farmers downstream from the forested water towers (such as the Lower Nzoia),
users of power from the Masinga and Kamburu dams, and Nairobi residents dependent on
Sasumua and Ndakaini dams for water supply (which are downstream from the work
carried out in the Upper Tana catchment).

1.5      Original Components

11.      The project had four components: (i) Water Resource Management and
Irrigation; (ii) Management of Forest Resources; (iii) Livelihood Investments in the
Upper Tana Catchment; and (iv) Management and Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E).
According to the PAD, the first two components aimed to support the legal and
institutional reforms contained in the newly approved legislation at the time of appraisal,
and develop some investments in the catchment areas. The third component aimed to
provide assistance to incentivize communities to participate in NRM, while the fourth
component was designed to support project administration and comprehensive M&E.
12.    Component 1, Water Resource Management and Irrigation (US$44.5 million)
included two sub-components as follows:
      1.1. Strengthening the capacity of the WRMA including direct investments in the
      Upper Tana Catchment (US$l5.5 million). This sub-component supported
      implementation of laws, policies, and regulations related to WRM, following
      promulgation of the 2002 Water Act. WRMA’s 6 Regional Offices and its 26 sub-
      regional offices and their administrative and technical capacities would be
      strengthened to enable the new agency to equip itself and undertake its core business,
      including river and ground-water monitoring to regulate the use of water, and to begin
      to reverse the widespread degradation of catchments jointly with the Water Resource
      Users Associations (WRUAs).
      1.2 Consolidation of irrigation reforms and investments (US$29 million) supported
      (i) infrastructure development, (ii) reforms at NIB, preparation of an Irrigation
      Strategy and Business Plan, and inputs into the Irrigation Act, and (iii) the creation
      and strengthening of participatory Irrigation Water User Associations (IWUAs).
10.       Component 2, Management of Forest Resources (US$22.4 million) aimed to
improve forest governance, participation and investment by stakeholders. The joint
management with local communities and private sector was consistent with reforms in
other sectors. The Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (MENR) and the
newly established Kenya Forest Service (KFS) would be supported to develop a
transparent and accountable regulatory and institutional framework. Activities included:
      2.1 Forest sector institutional reforms (US$10.1 million): This subcomponent aimed
      to transform the Forestry Department into a semi-autonomous KFS, enhancing
      governance and improving revenues for forest management. The design and
      implementation of the strategic plan would enable a socially and environmentally
      sound implementation of the Forestry Act. With the adequate base information and
      the development and management of forest plantations the protection of forests would
      be improved. To address the lack of reliable data on forest resources it was envisaged

                                               3
    that the project would conduct a phased Forest Resource Assessment (FRA) including
    a detailed inventory of plantations and a rapid assessment of indigenous and farm
    forests. Training and sensitization of staff, together with provision of equipment and
    other infrastructure support would facilitate technical and cultural change towards an
    effective, transparent and accountable KFS administration.
    2.2 Community participation and benefit sharing (US$9.6 million) would articulate
    rights and responsibilities of stakeholders, defining processes for developing
    arrangements and approving management plans and benefit-sharing mechanisms.
    Initial focus was on identifying and prioritizing partnership models to implement the
    legislative framework and improve benefit-sharing in Kakamega, Mt.Elgon, the
    Aberdares and Upper Tana.
    2.3 Community and Private Sector Investments in Commercial Forestry (US$2.7
    million) aimed to revitalize Kenya's forest industries in line with the Forestry Act,
    and ensure closer integration between forest products manufacturing, harvesting and
    forest management goals, and increase rural income. Strengthening institutional
    support services would create an enabling environment for community and private
    sector involvement in development and management of production forests.
11.       Component 3, Livelihood Investments in the Upper Tana Catchment (US$6.2
million), supported a Community Driven Development (CDD) approach for managing
catchments and forest perimeters. It aimed to develop livelihood enhancing schemes
supporting the natural resource base, as afforestation, private sector/community
partnerships for timber, fuel-wood and pulp production, tree seedlings, introduction of
productivity-enhancing techniques of agro-forestry or conservation farming, so on.
12.        Component 4, Management and M&E (US$4.9 million) promoted an
integrated approach to management and measuring results. A Project Coordination Office
(PCO) in the MoWI would coordinate activities, coordinate and carry out M&E and
fiduciary requirements, and develop a communication strategy. Activities supported
under component 4 were also designed to address issues of resource rights, conflict over
land and resettlement, envisioned as potentially necessary for the irrigation infrastructure.
US$1.6 million was budgeted for the GoK to develop a set of transparent safeguard
instruments to mitigate current and future conflicts over land, customary rights and the
rights of indigenous people. In addition, preparation of a National Resettlement Policy
(NRP), outside of Project support, would allow these processes to be mainstreamed into
GoK policy. The GoK’s existing draft Land Policy at the time was not fully able to
address land and legacy related issues including resettlement, mainly due to the number
of stakeholders to be consulted. The safeguard instruments were to be developed for the
NRMP and other Bank-financed projects at the time based on extended, substantive
consultative processes; these frameworks include the Indigenous Peoples Planning
Framework (IPPF) 6, Process Framework (PF), Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF),


6
  Indigenous people were later referred to as Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups (VMGs) upon request from the GoK
in line with the 2010 Constitution of Kenya which uses the term “Vulnerable Groups” and “Marginalized Groups”
instead of “Indigenous People.” The use of the terminology VMGs does not in any way diminish the benefits and
protections available under the OP4.10 policy to the people who meet the eligibility criteria accorded to Indigenous
Peoples under OP 4.10.

                                                         4
and accompanying action plans if necessary. The PAD stated that because specific
intervention sites were not known at the time of project approval, resettlement action
plans (RAPs) would only be developed (i) when specific intervention sites were
identified, and (ii) if a RAP was necessary for a specific site.

1.6      Revised Components

13.     The 2011 project restructuring addressed the factors delaying implementation but
maintained the project’s component structure. Twenty percent (SDR 9.49M) of the credit
proceeds were reallocated to cover: (i) the higher than estimated costs for irrigation
investments and related technical consultancies; (ii) the investments for management of
sedimentation and water flow 7; (iii) the incremental field operating costs for WRMA,
NIB and KFS; and (iv) up to 100 percent of the cost of all expenditure categories except
civil works, including taxes. The reallocation of project funds among existing categories
covered cost overruns on some components, in particular Component 2 (Forest resources),
where implementation progress had become affected by land and legacy issues that
became apparent after the project had begun implementation.
14.    In subcomponent 1.1 (Strengthening capacity of WRMA), design flaws and delays
in conducting the physiographic baseline study, and the technical and institutional
challenges associated with implementation of sediment control measures, led to the
introduction of fast-track execution of small-scale investments directly by WRMA, such
as small check dams and flow regulation structures. This investment approach was
considered necessary since the WRUAs were embryonic, slowing preparation of sub-
catchment management plans (SCMPs) and the proposed CDD livelihood schemes.
Technical assistance was provided for priority pilot groundwater management initiatives
(Kikuyu Springs) and a new groundwater management policy.
15.    Subcomponent 1.2 (Irrigation investments) narrowed its focus to include: (i) the
design and construction of the new Lower Nzoia Irrigation Scheme; (ii) rehabilitating the
Mwea system, dropping rehabilitation of Ahero, West Kano and Perkerra systems but
maintaining the capacity building of their IWUAs; and (iii) the reform process at NIB.
16.      Component 2 (Forest resources) was also revised to (i) strengthen the
participatory approaches for forest dependent people including indigenous people, and
(ii) strengthen the climate change dimensions of forest management, in line with the
GoK’s adoption of a National Climate Change Response Strategy in April 2010. Funds
supported: (i) the preparation and implementation of what would be the equivalent of
Indigenous People’s Plans in Kenya, the VMG Plans, which include community-driven
livelihood activities and which were built upon the Social Assessment completed in June
2010; (ii) expansion of technical assistance on participatory approaches to forest
management, (iii) building of capacity of Community Forest Associations (CFAs) and
other local groups including indigenous people; (iv) provision of expertise for
GIS/remote sensing; (v) building of capacity of the GoK and other stakeholders on


7
  The project would construct some small to medium sized water storage structures and check dams in the upper
catchment of the Tana River, which is Kenya’s largest river and supplies water to hydroelectric dams producing 80% of
Kenya’s electricity, and is a key source of Nairobi’s water supply.

                                                         5
REDD 8 readiness such as by carrying out assessments on benefits sharing and
decentralized forest management; and (vi) rehabilitation of existing infrastructure.
17.     Under Component 2, the project struggled with issues related to OP/BP 4.10
since its start-up. To improve project implementation with respect to OP4.10 and
OP4.12, the following actions were agreed to, in addition to the above activities: (i)
preparation of Vulnerable Marginalized Groups Plans (VMGPs) which would include
livelihood and CDD type investments based on the Social Assessment completed in June
2010 under a deeply consultative process; (ii) advancing the Process Framework (PF) that
defines customary rights and grievance redress mechanisms; and (iii) because land and
legacy issues are far beyond the remit of KFS, the restructured project aimed to provide
technical assistance to facilitate the establishment and operation of an Inter-Ministerial
Task Force on Land and Legacy Issues, to be chaired by the Ministry of Forestry and
Wildlife, in liaison with relevant ministries such as the Ministry of Lands and the Offices
of the President and Prime Minister. Rather than developing a National Resettlement
Policy, the project would then support the work of the Task Force, facilitating the
provision of inputs into the ongoing review of laws and regulations as part of the new
Constitution’s implementation process to ensure that land tenure and user rights of
indigenous people were adequately being taken into account.

1.7       Other significant changes

18.      Due to the slow start up and delays arising from the turmoil following the
disputed December 27, 2007 general election, dated covenants were also amended to be
more realistic and achievable. Two covenants were dropped as their activities had been
or were being addressed by the GoK 9. In addition, due to persistent delays in obtaining
tax exemptions for the project, financing parameters were changed to cover 100% for all
categories, excluding civil works. The increase included incremental operating costs to
support the set up and operationalization of systems to improve the generation of
revenues for the new implementing agencies (IAs: KFS, NIB, WRMA) in the longer term,
facilitating sector sustainability. The restructured project also clarified area coverage at
district level in the Upper Tana Catchment (Aberdares), Mt. Elgon, and Kakamega to
include Cherangani Hills, Nandi Hills, and Lower Nzoia.
19.      A second restructuring was approved just before project closing to cancel US$7.2
million (SDR 4.86 million) and reallocate proceeds among existing categories. Some
activities would not be completed before project closing due to absorption issues.

2.        Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1       Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry



8
  Reducing Emissions from Deforestation Forest Degradation.
9
  Covenants dropped included: (i) conducting a rapid assessment of forest resources, as it was taken by a consultancy
financed by the Government of Japan as part of the REDD readiness process in Kenya; and (ii) review of all relevant
land related policies and laws and identify areas in need of harmonization with respect to resettlement as part of the
development of a Resettlement Policy, being reviewed by the GoK.

                                                           6
20.      The project was prepared in consultation with development partners and key
stakeholders including donors, private sector and communities. The strategy of
addressing both forest and water resources in the project design is sound and remains
relevant today given the water provisioning and filtering services provided by forest
ecosystems. The project design was based on a sound analysis of the problems, and a
well-balanced combination of interventions. However, it was highly under-budgeted for
the planned irrigation civil works, and for implementing the ambitious sector and
institutional reforms. It was too optimistic in the expected targets and overly ambitious
(in the IPPF) with respect to resolving and mitigating long-lasting land and forest
conflicts. As noted at restructuring, some of the indicators, such as sedimentation rates,
were not achievable or easily measured or directly attributable to the project intervention.
21.      The Project design aimed at tackling and sustainably managing water and forest
resources through strengthening the new parastatals, developing the information base,
enhancing the legal and regulatory framework, financing investments, and engaging
communities in co-management and community-driven micro-projects. It was relevant to
the CAS and GoK priorities in that it addressed natural resource degradation that
disproportionately affects the poor 10. The focus on critical watersheds including the
Aberdares, source of much of Nairobi’s water supply, was sound. The three core Project
components together sought to lay the groundwork for integrated watershed management,
given the degradation caused by encroachment into forests, cultivation on steep hillsides
and river banks, and use of poor farming methods combined with the development of
irrigation. One opportunity lost, however, was a set of activities to improve basin level
management, to better link resource planning and monitoring throughout the watershed
from the montane forest of Kenya’s water towers to the command area of downstream
irrigation schemes. The project was well placed to more actively pursue basin scale
approaches given that the project design emphasized community level engagement with
irrigation users, water user associations, community forest associations, and indigenous
peoples groups (largely located in and around forests). Nevertheless, at smaller
catchment scales, the project’s design focus on participatory resource management with
communities and the identification of effective ways for achieving integrated actions was
well conceived – such as through the promotion of sustainable land management (SLM)
practices so that conservation and production goals could converge to enhance
livelihoods and prevent erosion.
22.     However, some expected results and targets were unrealistic to achieve within the
planned timeframe given the lack of experience, the limited scope of direct project
influence, and the low estimated budget. Unrealistic targets included: (i) reducing by 20%
the sediment load in rivers and reservoirs; (ii) 80% of households adopting recommended
land use practices within the targeted catchments; (iii) adoption of payment for
environmental services (PES) in 50 schemes; and (iv) 50 new forest investment requests
from communities and private sector due to the improved investment climate.




10
   Natural resources are critical to the livelihoods of the nearly 70% of Kenyans who live in rural areas and also to the
urban poor, who use wood and charcoal for their fuel. Population pressures, deforestation and ecosystem degradation,
unsustainable resource use and corruption were threatening vulnerable habitats.

                                                            7
23.     Weak readiness for implementation affected early progress. Factors that
contributed to the delay included: the lack of detailed designs for the irrigation
investments; the unclear responsibilities between NIB and MoWI for reform deliverables;
and linking triggers for investments by NIB to progress of reform steps at the sector level.
This was exacerbated by post-election violence in 2007-2008.
24.      Project documentation suffered from disconnects in the phrasing of the PDO, as
mentioned earlier, and in the scope of project activities. First, as noted in the
Restructuring Paper (June 2011), and in the Management Response to the Request for
Inspection (2013), the IPPF promised more than the project itself could realistically
address. Given the scope and timeframe of the project, the original project design was
overly ambitious concerning the resolution of long-standing land and forest conflicts .
This has contributed to difficulties in maintaining a clear distinction between project
activities and activities outside the project, and blurred the line defining appropriate
boundaries of project safeguard obligations in forested intervention areas. The approach
set forth in the IPPF on resettlement and restoration of livelihoods was overly ambitious
and difficult to implement given the scope of NRMP’s forest component and the limited
mandate of the implementing agency, the KFS. This view implies that the original project
design underestimated the complexity of the project context. Second, the disconnect
between the Financing Agreement and PAD on the PDO phrasing are detailed earlier in
this report.

25.    The quality of the project at entry is rated moderately unsatisfactory, while
recognizing that the 2011 restructuring was a serious attempt to correct the above flaws.

2.2    Implementation

26.    Project startup was affected by exogenous factors. The project became effective
on December 10, 2007, and was immediately affected by the turmoil following the
disputed general election of December 27, 2007. Because of the delays in all components,
the implementation performance rating was downgraded to moderately unsatisfactory
until mid-2010. During the same period, Kenya’s current account deficit grew from 4.5%
of GDP in 2008 to 7.5% in 2009. These issues were exacerbated by high international
food and fuel prices in 2008, the global financial crisis in 2008-09, and four consecutive
droughts arising from failures in seasonal rains. Taken together, these factors all affected
all GoK activities including the Project. In fact, Kenya’s economic growth hit a low of
1.7% in 2008 and 2.5% in 2009, despite Vision 2030’s projection of 10% growth by 2012.
27.     Against this backdrop, budgets for the IAs were lower than originally envisaged,
slowing down activities across the board. The development of the required information
base, the enhancement of the legal and regulatory framework, and the organizational
arrangements for executing the participatory processes including organizing IAs and
CBOs to develop and implement sub-catchment management plans and forest
management plans, O&M of irrigation systems, and CDD schemes, were all slowed
down, in some cases affecting the ability to deliver – such as the construction of the
Lower Nzoia Irrigation scheme which was transferred to another IDA-financed project
approved in 2013 based on the design developed under NRMP.


                                             8
28.     An early MTR was carried out in March 2010 to assess the causes of delays and
identify remedies, recommending the restructuring described above. The project
restructuring also amended some project activities and outcomes so that: (i) they were
brought within the control of, and could be delivered by, the IAs; and (ii) could be
achieved by project close. Still, after restructuring, some difficulties appeared in clearly
defining the scope of project activities, such as the historic land and legacy issues
discussed below.
29.     The historical legacy of conflicts and tensions over land issues involving
indigenous people and other poor and vulnerable local rural communities was
aggravated by the aftermath of the post-election violence in 2007 which brought
internally displaced people into the forest. This situation, combined with poorly
understood limits of direct Project influence, resulted in complaints from a handful of
people. As a result, NRMP became a high-risk project on the corporate watch list. The
on-going, decades-old disputes on land rights and land use in forested areas home to the
Ogiek and Sengwer/Cherangani communities became an issue that the Project attempted
to help address to the limited extent it was able to. Land rights and access issues go
beyond the forestry sector, the mandate of KFS, and beyond the project scope, influence,
and time-span, yet the NRMP’s safeguard instruments, namely the IPPF, committed the
project to address these issues, which the Project was not equipped to do as noted above
in the assessment of quality at entry. From early implementation, complaints have been
brought up by a handful of people identifying themselves as representatives of indigenous
peoples’ groups in and around highland forests. In response, the documentation shows
that the GoK and Bank responded quickly, thoroughly and efficiently to complaints
through letters, phone calls, meetings, workshops and site visits. Site missions to these
forested areas averaged one every 10 weeks, compared to the usual 6 months for most
projects.
30.     The extra attention and supervision budget given to these issues affected overall
project implementation, making it difficult for IAs and the Bank to attend to other issues.
For example, the Project encountered challenges related to a lack of clarity on the
standing within communities of various individuals and groups who purported to speak
on their behalf. While two competing Sengwer peoples organizations in Cherangani were
identified at the outset of the Project, subsequent Project consultations suggested that
neither of them was well known among the communities nor did all the communities
consider them as their representative. Indeed, some communities (e.g., in Embobut)
affirmed that they did not have any social or cultural organizations that spoke on their
behalf. As a result, on numerous occasions, development of project instruments such as
the VMGPs and project implementation was delayed as the implementing agencies with
the project team attempted to sort out the real will of the communities. This required a
much more intensive consultations process than had been anticipated. The consultation
process culminated in the communities, including provincial representatives and elders,
selecting their own representatives through a free and open process and development of a
grievance complaints handling mechanism. While this did not resolve the issue of dissent
completely it did allow for the much delayed livelihoods activities to commence and the
bulk of project related complaints to be resolved at the project level.



                                              9
31.     Despite an acceleration in disbursement from 52% in July 2012 to 92% at the
time of the ICR review in December 2013, absorption capacity was a persistent issue
during implementation, leading to the second restructuring to cancel US$7.24 million.

2.3    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

32.      A comprehensive results-based M&E system design was originally proposed to
track project implementation and to assess the impact of the project on target groups and
the natural resource base. The design would have a two-tier monitoring approach: (i) a
centralized, comprehensive Management Information System (MIS) housed at the central
Kenyan Soils Survey (KSS) and that would support multiple natural resources related
activities, not only the Project, (ii) a Geographic Information System (GIS) laboratory at
the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI), and (iii) at community level, tracking
performance through accountability mechanisms such as score cards and social audits;
participation would be reinforced by a public awareness and communication program.
33.     During implementation, the M&E system was not fully put in place, partly due to
difficulties in implementation by multiple institutions, and inconclusive discussions
between the PCO and KARI. The PCO claimed that KSS and KARI had (i) no data on
forest cover; and (ii) no mandate to measure water flows or analyze water quality. KARI
argued that the PCO had never made a clear proposal. Also, there was no budget for
funding the MIS at KARI.
34.      Because of these issues, at MTR it was agreed to put in place a stand-alone and
more modest and cost-effective Project-specific M&E system operating at two levels: at
the PCO, which would act as a hub to the IAs which would each have M&E functions.
This more modest design was put in place at the time of the 2011 restructuring, which
also simplified the Project results chain including the revised PDO, more clearly defined
indicators that are within the sphere of direct Project influence, and more reasonable
targets that are achievable within the Project timeframe and budget. Under
implementation, the IAs had a module and a data transfer protocol for communicating
with the PCO. The system allowed for linking each step in the results chain, producing
regular reports every quarter, half year and annually. However, inadequate information
was compiled for the second tier monitoring of impacts on resources and communities,
and at times M&E staffing at IAs was wanting. Regular upgrades added geo-referenced
CDD schemes and social and environmental safeguards reporting. The recalibrated M&E
system was utilized by the client to report on Project targets but could have intensified
efforts to quantify social and environmental impacts.
35.     The rating is moderately satisfactory, which takes into account the improvements
made to M&E design, implementation and utilization from the 2011 restructuring. The
streamlined system was creatively and appropriately designed and utilized effectively for
reporting on the project results framework, but was less ambitious than originally
conceived, probably due to complexities arising from multi-agency implementation.




                                           10
2.4.    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

36.     The project triggered seven World Bank safeguard policies: (i) Environmental
Assessment; (ii) Involuntary Resettlement; (iii) Natural Habitats; (iv) Forests; (v)
Physical Cultural Resources; (vi) Indigenous People 11; and (vii) International Waters. All
the required safeguards documents were in place at effectiveness, including the
Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF), the Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF), and the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework (IPPF). However,
the post-election turmoil that followed the 2007 election had a major impact on the start of
Project activities on the ground, particularly in Western Kenya and Rift Valley provinces.
Some areas were inaccessible to both Bank and IA staff until about June 2008. Inter-ethnic
conflicts led to large numbers of displaced persons seeking refuge in gazetted forest areas,
including the Cherangani Hills, adding to already strained inter-community relationships
about land tenure and access. During implementation, a Process Framework (PF) was
approved after lengthy, widespread consultations, which addressed customary rights of
forest dependent populations and established a grievance mechanism. As of October 2013,
three months after closing, KFS had been working to mainstream the PF into its work
nationwide as a tool to support participatory management of forest resources.
37. Environment. The project was classified Category B since investments were small or
medium size (water storage and check dams) with environmental, human health and
safety, and trans-boundary impacts being easy to identify and mitigate. Annual
environmental audits for the NRMP activities were conducted providing qualitative and
quantitative evidence on the environmental status of the various interventions.
38. Social. The project environment has been challenging from the outset, and is
characterized by tension over historic land issues, longstanding grievances of indigenous
communities, and unresolved conflicts between those communities and the KFS. There
have been additional challenges to project implementation that have complicated project
safeguards, such as the widespread ethnic violence that took place in Kenya following the
elections in 2007, including a significant influx into forest areas of people displaced by
that violence and the security-related mobility restrictions for Bank staff until mid-2008.
As noted above and in the RP, the original project design was overly ambitious, including
aspirations in safeguard instruments to resolve long-standing land and forest conflicts
nationwide that were not realistic given the scope and timeframe of the project. This
ambition contributed to occasional difficulties in maintaining a clear distinction between
project activities and activities outside the project, and has at times blurred the line
defining the appropriate boundaries of project safeguard obligations. In addition, it was
not always clear which were the appropriate and representative entities the project team
should engage with given the dissenting voices of the indigenous people organizations.

39. In complying with safeguard obligations, there has been much proactive work over
three years on the part of the GoK and the indigenous communities (and the Bank) to



11
  OP 4.10 was triggered by the presence of Sengwer/Cherangani indigenous people of Cherangani Hills
and Embobut forest, and the Ogiek indigenous people of Mt Elgon forest within the project area, and the
precarious state of their traditional or customary land and natural resources in these forest lands.

                                                   11
build trust so that progress can be made on the ground on poverty alleviation, community
resource rights, and conservation in a way that satisfies the vast majority of stakeholders.
In general, the GoK and Bank have erred on the side of caution, reacting promptly to
complaints as they have come to their attention, carrying out exceptionally intensive field
supervision (every 10 weeks on average) and verifications, and strongly advising
Government to implement solutions consistent with project safeguard frameworks and
international best practices with regard to environmental and social safeguards.
Complicating safeguards compliance issues is the underlying fact that the project
documentation at entry was not internally consistent on safeguards obligations, (see
section on Quality at Entry) raising expectations of what NRMP (or any project) could
accomplish on a decades-old simmering legacy of land access issues that continue to
punctuate national politics. This issue could have been further compounded by the
turnover in social safeguards staff/consultants.

40.    In early 2012, the project team and Bank management worked internally with
OPCS to prepare a dispute resolution approach (complementing the local Project-level
grievance redress mechanism (GRM) led by KFS) to support resolution of community
concerns. This was an early example of utilizing the new grievance redress capacity that
the Board had approved for Management to develop in response to a 2010 IEG
safeguards evaluation. An independent high-level regional mediator was engaged to
support dialogue between KFS and community groups through a collaborative problem
solving process. The intention was to build sustained capacity for the local Project-level
GRM and also facilitate dispute resolution on specific, potentially broader issues
important to the indigenous communities participating in the Project. The action plans
and agreements identified through this process were affirmed through participatory
community meetings. The specific actions included delivery of Project benefits, co-
management opportunities, initiatives to address land issues, and a commitment by both
KFS and communities to strengthen existing local grievance redress procedures.

41.      The IPPF approved by the Bank in 2006 posed several implementation challenges
as it included activities that were far beyond the scope of the project, would have required
interventions by multiple agencies including those outside the Project, and were not
implementable during the project timeframe. Particularly controversial were the
following items introduced in the IPPF (but not in the PAD): (i) hasten the provision of
titles for land occupied and used by the communities in the project areas, including
support for necessary steps, such as a land survey, demarcation and registration of titles;
(ii) establish a policy to rehabilitate livelihoods of evicted people to the level of
December 2002; and (iii) offer assistance within the land restitution process to indigenous
people to claim all lands over which they have lost control between 1895 and 2002.
These items were not related to the mitigation of the foreseen project intervention and
raised unrealistic expectations contributing to unresolved conflicts between sections of
some communities and the GoK.
42.     In January 2013 the Inspection Panel of the World Bank received a request for
inspection sent by individuals from Sengwer communities who “live and represent others
who live” in four areas of the Cherangani Hills, claiming that they have suffered harm as
a result of the Bank’s “failure and omissions” in the project for incidents between 2007

                                            12
and 2011. 12 After reviewing the issues raised, Bank Management concluded that any
harm that may have stemmed from the incidents cited in the request was not caused or
aggravated by the project, nor has the project supported these incidents. Management
stated that in spite of the difficult operating environment which included complex and
sensitive legacy issues, the Bank had complied with the policies and procedures
applicable to the matters raised in the request.
43.    The Panel stated in its Report and Recommendation dated May 29, 2013 that
there were conflicting assertions and differing views on issues of harm and compliance
with policies and procedures raised in the request for inspection, in the Management
response, in the Panel’s meetings with affected people, and with Bank staff. Hence, the
Panel recommended an investigation, which is to be concluded in early 2014.
44.     At the time of the Project restructuring, a change in safeguards category was not
considered necessary, because the process of setting up institutional structures to address
these issues under the new Constitution was in progress, as was the development of the
NRMP Process Framework which included the grievance redress mechanism which was
used by the indigenous communities and KFS.
45.     Financial reporting. The accounting capacity was adequate: financial reports and
annual audited statements were submitted in a timely manner, and no outstanding issues
remained pending. Disbursement procedures took longer than necessary because of the
IAs’ lack of experience and inability to move at the required pace during implementation,
coupled with documented bottlenecks at Treasury that in 2012 and 2013 affected other
Bank-financed projects besides NRMP. The low absorptive capacity during the first
years was affected by staff shortage resulting in lower disbursements levels than expected.
Constraints were generally overcome during the last two years. There were delays in
procurement processes for most of the key project activities due to internal slow
processing of key procurements by IAs and in requesting No Objections.

2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

46.    WRMA, KFS and the NIB are committed to continue all project activities even
those not yet completed through its specialized departments. The new government that
was elected in 2013 reorganized key Ministries, merging the MoWI, the MoFW and the
Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (MoENR) into the Ministry of
Environment, Water and Natural Resources (MoEWNR). The reorganization offers an
opportunity for better coordination of natural resources and water resources activities in


12
   The Request raises a broad array of concerns regarding indigenous groups’ land rights and tenure,
including historical, unresolved land issues. Specifically the Request refers to a number of incidents
between 2007 and 2011, which the Request claims involved evictions of community members from forest
areas, alleged arrests of community members by the authorities, and alleged wounding of a community
member by the authorities. The Request asserts that the Government should compensate them for these
incidents. The Request also raises broader issues related to resettlement of forest communities, including
allegations that the Government is currently planning to undertake resettlement without complying with
safeguard requirements. The Request further puts forth a number of demands that are addressed to the GoK,
and asserts that various incidents and actions of the GoK are not in compliance with the Indigenous Peoples’
Planning Framework (IPPF) prepared for the Project, and that the Bank’s supervision was insufficient.

                                                    13
Kenya. MoEWNR capacity has benefitted from the NRMP’s improved infrastructure and
human capacity. The GOK pledged not to change Cabinet Department portfolios ensuring
stability and sustainability. However, there is still a need for improvement in setting new
roles, budgetary provisions and staffing for the IAs. KFS management mainstreamed and
employed a full-time Social Development Specialist (introduced during NRMP to work
on social safeguards issues) to support the institution’s engagements with communities
beyond the NRMP in addition to all specialists contracted for the project.
47.      The GoK requested Bank support for an ambitious long-term and large-scale
investment series aimed at building water security and climate resilience. This resulted in
a phased series of operations called the Kenya Water Security and Climate Resilience
Project (KWSCRP). The KWSCRP-1 would assume the financing of the construction of
the new Lower Nzoia irrigation, whose design was financed by NRMP. The NIB staff is
developing the scheme’s structures and providing irrigation water up to the tertiary level,
and maintaining upstream structures such as water pumps or main canals. The capacity
building provided to IWUAs had prepared users to manage the infrastructure transferred
to them, and lessons from Mwea irrigation under NRMP are being incorporated. The
strong synergy created between NRMP and WaSSIP with regards to the management of
critical catchments for water storage infrastructure offers lessons for the KWSCRP.

3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

48.     The NRMP objectives and design remain highly relevant for Kenya. Poor water
resources management and degradation is costing the country at least Ksh 3.3 billion
(0.5% of GDP) annually, handicapping efforts for poverty alleviation and shared
prosperity. Kenya’s Vision 2030 aims for the country to be a middle income country.
Natural resources play a key role in achieving this objective, directly through livelihoods
and jobs, and indirectly by managing climate risks or enabling growth in primary sectors
such as agriculture, power, and tourism. Vision 2030 also prioritizes food production
which requires developing irrigation for domestic food security and export. Expanding
tree cover to 10% is another Vision 2030 priority, recognizing that tree cover is vital to
ensure functioning watershed systems and groundwater recharge areas critical for water
security, and to provide essential habitat for wildlife. NRMP’s design emphasized
participatory community approaches to forest, irrigation and water resources
management, an approach that is gaining currency with the GoK.
49.     The country recognizes that watershed management needs to continue to be
improved, along with better water harvesting and storage structures, and expanded and
efficient water services that require sustainable land uses as well as community
participation and resource rights. Kenya is a water-scarce country, with rapidly-growing
water demand, and very limited storage capacity. Only 55% of Kenyans have access to
safe drinking water. Severe degradation of its five water towers and catchment areas has




                                            14
contributed to the current water crisis. 13 To meet rising demand, Kenya continues to
promote sustainable water development along with efficient water services management.
New institutions that separate responsibilities for legislation and policy making,
regulation, asset ownership, and service provision need further strengthening for
decentralized management to work. Investments in water services, forest and watershed
management, groundwater management, and adequate hydraulic infrastructure are
critical. As a result, integrated and participatory management of natural resources
including the five forested “water towers” continues to be a high priority for the GoK and
for the Bank’s current Country Partnership Strategy (CPS).

50.      During NRMP implementation, the importance of groundwater started to be
recognized and pilot groundwater management initiatives and policy reforms were
supported. Under NRMP, pilot initiatives were carried out to better understand
groundwater sources (such as the recharge mechanism for Kikuyu Springs, a stable
source of water for Nairobi and Kikuyu communities, development of a groundwater
management plan for Kikuyu Springs, and the gazzetting of the recharge areas) and
initiate the preparation of a new groundwater development and management policy.

3.2       Achievement of Project Development Objectives
51.     The overall achievement of the PDO is rated moderately satisfactory. This rating
reflects the relative weight given to both the original and restructured project objectives,
based on disbursement of 31% at the time of the June 2011 level 1 restructuring, plus
additional considerations, namely: (i) achievement of outcome targets as of the June 2011
restructuring and the June 2013 closing, 14 (ii) absorption issues, (iii) the operating
environment faced by this complex project, which were proactively addressed, and (iv)
the overall project results for the client and beneficiaries.
52.     Achievement of development objectives at the time of the June 2011 restructuring
is rated moderately satisfactory. 15 The PDO in the 2007 Financing Agreement was “to
enhance the Recipient's institutional capacity to manage water and forest resources,
reduce the incidence and severity of water shocks such as drought, floods and water
shortage in river catchments and improve the livelihoods of communities participating in
the co-management of water and forest resources.” The achievement of the first
objective (enhance institutional capacity) is substantial. The achievement of the second
objective (reduce water shocks) is modest. The third objective (improve livelihoods) is
substantial. The PDO indicators retained by the restructured project were on track to
achieve their targets, while other indicators were not tracked or were off-track. At this
time disbursement was 31%.



13
   Increased water scarcity in Kenya results in reduced water supplies and hydroelectricity, growing competition and
increased conflicts over water. Growing pressure on natural resources would accelerate encroachment threatening the
country’s goals for economic growth and urbanization.
14
    Weighting is based on disbursement rate which was 31% at the time of the level 1 restructuring in 2011 that clarified
and simplified the PDO and some indicators as noted earlier, added new indicators, and explicitly established
investment activities for forest communities in the Cherangani Hills.
15
    Same rating in the May 2011 ISR, down from satisfactory ratings in the previous two ISRs.

                                                          15
53.      Achievement of development objectives at the time of closing in June 2013 is
rated moderately satisfactory. 16 The restructured PDO was “to improve the management
of water and forest resources in selected districts.” This objective was achieved
substantially, reflecting the fact that all the restructured PDO indicators and almost all the
restructured intermediate indicators have achieved their targets, with the exception of the
construction of the Lower Nzoia irrigation scheme mentioned above. The disbursement
rate of the project rose from 31% at the time of restructuring in June 2011 to 92% in Q2
of FY2014, reflecting the fact that much of the project targets were achieved with
expenditures in the final year of implementation.
54.     The overall assessment of the extent of achievement of the development objectives
is underpinned below by detailed assessments on the achievements of each of the main
groupings of interventions related to the PDO before and after restructuring, including:
(i) water resources management (including catchment management), (ii) irrigation
management, and (iii) forest resources management. All three components together help
address both the revised and original Project objectives related to reducing water shocks,
improving livelihoods, and enhancing institutional capacity to manage water and forest
resources.

Achievement of the Project’s Objectives on Water Resources Management
55.     Overall, the project generated satisfactory achievements for water resources
management, a theme that was supported through project components 1.1 and 3, both
implemented by WRMA. These components together contributed to (i) improved
capacity of WRMA and communities to manage watersheds, and (ii) greatly enhanced
community capacity to implement CDD subprojects. Nevertheless, the components did
not fully deliver on some aspects.
56.    Subcomponent 1.1: The overall rating is moderately satisfactory, based on slow
progress before restructuring and satisfactory progress after restructuring. The original
focus shifted from siltation control investments to strengthening WRMA capacity to
support WRUAs to develop sub-catchment management plans (SCMPs) and implement
small works that can deliver multiple benefits such as livelihoods and erosion reduction.
57.     Before restructuring there were delays in (i) conducting the physiographic
baseline survey, (ii) identifying investments to control sedimentation, and (iii) capacity
building of IAs and CBOs. This was complicated by the fact that the project design was
could not mitigate all factors inside and outside the project area (i.e., road construction)
that result in sedimentation of water bodies. The sub-component was therefore modified
as follows: (i) the budget for financing siltation control and catchment restoration
investments in SCMPs was reduced by 80%; and (ii) the PDO-level sedimentation
indicator (reduction in sediment in rivers and reservoirs) was dropped and substituted by
an indicator designed to measure WRMA’s capacity (increase in revenue collected from
water use charges). The new indicator target was surpassed by Project closing.




16
     Same rating in the last two ISRs.

                                             16
58.     The water use revenue indicator added at 2011 project restructuring measured
WRMA’s capacity to monitor and regulate water use. The target was exceeded as large
users like KenGen were brought into compliance. The total revenue now stands at Ksh
366 million, from a baseline figure of Ksh 267 million. Further increases could be
attained with stronger enforcement.
59.     Likewise, an intermediate indicator target was surpassed: 51 instead of the
planned 30 SCMPs were developed by WRUAs and approved by WRMA. Guidelines for
developing the SCMPs and for implementing integrated watershed management are now
disseminated and followed. WRMA’s capacity to deliver on this indicator has been
strengthened, and continues to facilitate the development and implementation of SCMPs
based on participatory approaches and public outreach.
60.     Given the initial delays in the early implementation of the SCMP investments and
the deferrals in reducing (and measuring) sedimentation rates in rivers and reservoirs, the
performance against the original PDO for the subcomponent (Strengthening WRMA
including direct investments in the Upper Tana catchment) is rated moderately
unsatisfactory. When compared with the restructured PDO indicators, the
subcomponent’s performance becomes satisfactory: WRMA is now prepared for better
management of water resources with decentralized activities linking WRUAs in the
design and execution of SCMPs; it is collecting increasing revenues from water users and
is better prepared with valid strategies and means for expanding good practices to other
catchments. Taken together, the overall rating for the subcomponent 1.1 is considered
moderately satisfactory.
61.     The outcome of Component 3 (Livelihood Investments in the Upper Tana
Catchment)(also implemented by WRMA) is rated highly satisfactory because it has
surpassed its targets and demonstrated results that have generated remarkable impact
benefiting CBOs through environmentally sustainable livelihoods micro-projects.
Component 3 also disbursed 69% more funds than budgeted in the PAD (US$9.3 million
vs. US$5.5 million). The component supported proposals from communities in the treated
catchments and forest perimeters investing in livelihood enhancing schemes that directly
or indirectly protected natural resources. 17 Implementation had a slow uptake initially but
increased rapidly in the final year as momentum grew, reaching a total of nearly 120,000
members of CBOs were mobilized and trained in subproject management. Of these, 3332
sub-project proposals were received from 713 CBOs, and 706 micro-projects were
financed by NRMP. These micro-projects supported livelihoods for 4,145 direct
beneficiaries, and nearly 25,000 when including household members. While it is too early
to fully assess impacts in terms of improvements in the people’s livelihoods, clear
indications are that if the current effort is sustained, livelihoods will continue to improve
and micro-projects could be replicated.




17
  More than 10% of the funds financed energy efficient and cleaner jikos (cookstoves) and biogas plants at
schools, displacing firewood use by an estimated 75%.

                                                    17
Achievement of the Project’s Objectives on Irrigation Management
62.      Overall, the project generated moderately satisfactory achievements in irrigation
management, which was supported through project component 1.2 and implemented by
NIB. The project contributed to (i) 9500 ha of farmland in Mwea with improved
irrigation, (ii) the design of the Lower Nzoia irrigation scheme (but not the construction
as originally intended), and (iii) stronger capacity of NIB to implement the above
activities and carry out its mandate, which is an especially relevant achievement given
that NIB is now implementing the larger irrigation component under the IDA-financed
WSCRP-I after facing absorption challenges with NRMP, and has an ambitious program
planned to expand irrigated area and related extension.
63.      In Mwea, which is a high value rice production area, NRMP support directly
resulted in 9500 ha of productive land improved by rehabilitating irrigation works in
7250 ha (including 830 ha that was completely deteriorated) and expanding 1250 ha of
irrigation works into out-grower areas. This achievement is more than a planned target of
9427 ha. The sub-component also successfully piloted “System of Rice Intensification” in
some plots, a resilient, low-carbon agricultural practice that allowed participating Mwea
rice farmers to conserve water while increasing yields approximately 20% while reducing
water use by roughly a third and eradicating mosquito breeding. 11,000 farmers from
Mwea benefitted from rehabilitation and improved service. Also, about 4200 farmers
have benefited through improved irrigation service as their IWUAs were strengthened but
not from the planned systems’ rehabilitation.
64.     The new construction of the Lower Nzoia Irrigation scheme was not implemented
under NRMP, but an expanded version of the scheme, designed with NRMP financing, is
supported under the new IDA-financed KWSCRP-I approved in 2013. As such, no new
irrigated area was delivered by the Lower Nzoia scheme.
65.      The PAD’s indicator did not distinguish between new irrigation and rehabilitated
irrigation schemes and listed the overall target as a generic 3500 ha, which has been met
by the project. The PAD text, however, gave a rehabilitation target of 12,800 ha and an
expanded irrigated area target of 3500 ha. The results framework in the RP distinguished
explicitly between the two, and the Project tracked both to closure.
66.      The project also measured two indicators through Project closing that were either
dropped during the 2011 restructuring, or were never one of the official project
indicators. The first indicator (% of irrigation scheme users satisfied with O&M service),
saw its target of 80% exceeded, hitting 95% at project close. Rehabilitation of Mwea and
capacity building of 4 schemes helped IWUAs to assume O&M and improve water
distribution through joint collaboration with NIB. The second indicator (% cost recovery
for O&M) was fully achieved. This indicator was tracked through project close although
it was dropped during the 2011 project restructuring. At the time of restructuring,
irrigation rehabilitation activities were recalibrated to focus on Mwea; the data for this
indicator comes from the irrigation users there.
67.     Overall, while the irrigation activities (i) generated success at Mwea in terms of
land area improved and users satisfied, and (ii) contributed to the dialogue, design and
scaling up of new construction in Lower Nzoia under a follow-on project, these activities
taken together are rated as moderately unsatisfactory.

                                            18
68.   With regard to the sub-component outcome on consolidating irrigation reforms, a
number of aspects inform the overall sub-component rating, as follows.
69.      The reform targets were to be achieved before mid-2008. The “Irrigation and
Drainage Master Plan” was prepared with detailed data/information by the MoWI in June
2009. Following the policy to accelerate irrigation development, budget allocation has
increased remarkably since 2008. The preparation of feasibility studies, detailed design
works construction works for irrigation systems including rehabilitation and expansion of
existing schemes, and new systems have been accelerated. The Irrigation Act and the new
Irrigation and Drainage Bill are pending approval. The Irrigation Sector Alignment
Action Plan, and the Irrigation, Drainage and Water Storage Development Investment
Plans are awaiting implementation.
70.      NIB has clear plans, programs and budgets, and is more results-oriented than at
project start-up, despite the 2009 institutional realignment study that still needs the
policy level documents approved. It consistently scores in the excellent or very good
range on GoK Performance Contract ratings. The NIB has moved in just five years from
a situation where no major scheme had been developed for 25 years, and an empty
investment pipeline, to the situation today of 119 projects being processed for a total
possible area of 144,000 ha and a 2012/13 budget of Ksh 11.4 billion (US$142 million).
71.     These transformations bring vulnerabilities and risks; one of the major challenges
is the gap in setting and measuring performance targets: there is not yet monitoring and
benchmarking of key irrigation parameters like water use efficiency, “crop per drop,”
O&M cost per ha, or of key institutional development challenges like strengthening the
financial sustainably of schemes and preparing for irrigation management transfer.
Investments in general are not sufficiently prioritized according to quantitative social or
economic evidence but are instead set largely by considerations of technical potential.
NIB could also benefit from developing an effective plan to engage private capital or
services in the irrigation sub-sector or to seek capital cost sharing from beneficiaries.
72.     When the project was restructured in 2011, cost overruns on consultancies and
under-budgeted irrigation civil work costs made it necessary to realign the irrigation
investments. Ahero, West Kano, Bunyala and Perkerra rehabilitation funds were
narrowed to capacity building of IWUAs only and investment funds were concentrated to
Mwea Rehabilitation Scheme and for design and construction of the Lower Nzoia
Irrigation Scheme. Subsequent delays resulted in an absorption rate of 69% for this
subcomponent before the June 2013 restructuring.


Achievement of the Project’s Objectives on Forest Resources Management
73.     Overall, the project generated moderately satisfactory achievements in forest
management activities, implemented predominately by KFS, with the exception of REDD
readiness studies and Secretariat support which were implemented by the MEWNR. The
project contributed to (i) 320,000 ha of forest area being managed according to approved
forest management plans (exceeding the PDO level outcome target), (ii) 7124 ha of
newly forested area, more than doubling the target, (iii) improved community
engagement in forest management and livelihoods, (iv) greater readiness of the country to

                                            19
access carbon payments under REDD and share those benefits with local stakeholders,
and (v) modernization and strengthening of KFS through inclusion of professional staff
and training on community outreach, participatory forest management, extension,
knowledge management, GIS, resulting in stronger capacity of KFS to carry out its
mandate, which is an especially relevant achievement given the legacy of land use and
access challenges faced by the country as it aims to double its forested area by 2020, and
address the concerns of indigenous people and internally displaced people who reside in
or are dependent upon forested areas. However, as noted at restructuring, the project was
not well placed to put in place systems for payments for environmental services or
resolve land ownership grievances. During implementation, concessions for forest
plantations were stopped due to a lawsuit barring KFS to proceed.
74.     The Forest Act led to a shift in policy towards community engagement in forest
management giving considerable weight to the participation of Community Forest
Associations (CFAs). Initially, KFS was ill-placed to effectively implement this provision
in the new Forest Act as it had little capacity in social development issues. Under NRMP,
progress was made in training, capacity building to support forest conservation,
community outreach and participatory approaches, extension services, as well as
construction of a modern knowledge management and training center and regional
offices. The CFAs supported under NRMP gained practical knowledge in NRM, and KFS
developed practical experience for achieving their goals.
75.      Indigenous people also benefitted under the Project: community-led Vulnerable
and Marginalized Group Plans (VMGPs) were prepared by each participating community
and activities carried out that delivered significant benefits for participants.
Institutionalization of a continuous and intensive series of participatory consultations was
an important and long lasting effort towards sustaining project gains, accompanied by
also nearly continuous implementation support missions (every 10 weeks on average).
Implementation of VMGPs has raised the prospects of continued involvement of
communities in forest protection and management resulting in a continuous reduction in
safeguard-related complaints from VMGs due to efficient response from KFS using the
grievance mechanism developed under the project, involving quick responses to enquiries
and a continued reorientation of KFS field staff towards greater community sensitivity.
This grievance mechanism was developed as part of the Process Framework, which also
put in place procedures for protecting indigenous people’s customary rights to forest
resources. The Process Framework is a tangible project achievement that has the potential
to contribute to greater co-management of forest resources in the future, as the Ogiek are
piloting with KFS.
76.      Capacity building: Most appreciated by the VMGCCs and communities was the
training and capacity building which allowed them to better manage their affairs.
According to VMGs and VMGCCs, training on governance, procurement, and technical
skills related to specific CDD sub-project activities improved their abilities to organize as
groups and manage their enterprises. Examples included (a) improved leadership abilities
which has seen VMGCC members being incorporated into other development entities
such as Peace Building Committees; (b) VMGCC members were being consulted as
resource persons in various development related activities such as coffee and dairy


                                             20
farming. Technical skills training led to successful implementation of a number of micro-
projects while governance training led to more accountability by VMGCCs.
77.     Outside of the scope, financing, and influence of NRMP, a resettlement of VMGs
and internally displaced people in the forest areas was planned by the Ministry of State
for Special Programs (MSSP) which was not a Project implementing agency. In
November and December 2013, it became apparent that the proposed resettlement
process had been replaced with a strategy for eviction with cash compensation as
newspapers reported the handing of cash compensation to IDPs and others. The IDPs
and forest evictees and dwellers were being offered cash compensation of Kshs 400,000
(about $4,761) to find their own land and relocate, contrary to best practice and previous
advice of the Bank (even though the action was not supported by NRMP, the Bank
advised the Government that any resettlement carried out that affected forest people
should adhere to best practice). The process, which was independent of NRMP and the
Bank, will affect the sustainability of the outcomes from VMGP implementation, and
holds important lessons for the country as it continues to address its legacy of land access
issues.
78.    Some achievements were made in identifying and prioritizing partnership models
to implement the legislative framework and improve benefit sharing arrangements; for
example, the REDD readiness activities supported by NRMP after restructuring included
the development of a benefits sharing options framework. This work will continue with a
follow on REDD grant under the Forest Carbon Partnership Facility. This is an important
element to curb forest degradation, put in place a sustainable PES scheme for forest
carbon, enhance sustainable access by local communities to forest resources, and forge
agreement and partnerships on benefit sharing options and ways to co-manage forests.
Notably, the Ogiek and KFS have piloted participatory forest management and this has
promise for further scaling up.


3.3    Efficiency
79.     The ex-post economic efficiency analysis conducted for NRMP confirms the
positive economic impact the project was expected to generate. The simulations yield
positive results for almost all of the scenarios for the baseline assumptions. Only the
20% discount rate simulation results in a negative NPV and a benefit-cost ratio less than
one. As the NPV is only slightly below zero, it already indicates an ERR close to 20%,
which is mathematically confirmed at 16.7%. The results of the quantitative simulations
are also robust across a range of sensitivity analyses assuming significant changes in
discount rates and key simulation parameters, notably agricultural yield, watershed
benefits, and carbon benefits. Throughout the analysis, it was emphasized that benefit
assumptions were always done conservatively using lower-bound values, especially as
regards non-market benefits such as watershed and carbon benefits.




                                            21
    Table 1: Summary of simulation results (NPV stated in USD million)

                           Baseline        Scenario 1      Scenario 2      Scenario 3       Scenario 4
Discount Rate           NPV BCR          NPV BCR         NPV BCR          NPV BCR           NPV BCR
                  2%    37.14 1.72       16.45 1.32      20.88 1.40       36.21 0.95        -0.73 0.55
                  5%    23.15 1.50        6.94 1.15      10.36 1.22       22.42 0.96        -6.58 0.55
                 10%     9.09 1.23       -2.17 0.94       0.13 1.00        8.57 0.93       -11.64 0.53
                 20%    -2.35 0.92       -8.53 0.70      -7.40 0.74       -2.64 0.91       -13.87 0.51
                         ERR: 16.7%       ERR: 8.5%       ERR: 10.1%       ERR: 16.3%        ERR: 1.7%
                     NPV = Net Present Value; BCR = Benefit-Cost-Ratio; ERR = Economic Rate of Return
                                                         Scenario 1: Reduced agricultural benefit (50%)
                                                          Scenario 2: Reduced watershed benefits (50%)
                                                             Scenario 3: Reduced carbon benefits (50%)
                                                                 Scenario 4: All benefits reduced (50%)

    80.      Analyzing the project impacts in the broader context of economic
    development and environmental change that took place in Kenya during project
    implementation implies that the project piloted and catalyzed important
    development momentum for the sustainable management of natural resources.
    With increasing pressure on natural resources and growing ecosystem stress through
    climate change, the project investments and associated achievements are highly relevant
    in today’s context. With growing urban populations and increasing demand for water,
    safeguarding Kenya’s water towers through sustainable management of watersheds and
    forest resources is a paramount ingredient to the country’s development ambitions.
    Against increasing global food prices and increasing domestic demand for food,
    rehabilitating and extending irrigation infrastructure is a vital measure to enhance food
    security and support economic development, especially in rural areas.

    81.     This ex-post economic assessment confirms the anticipated economic
    impacts envisaged during project design. The ex-ante economic evaluation of the
    different NRM Project interventions, such as SLM, reforestation, irrigation, and CDD
    micro-projects, indicated that most activities are likely to be profitable from the
    beneficiary and project perspective. In many cases, the off-site effects add significantly to
    economic viability from society’s perspective. The results of the analysis have some
    important implications for the design and implementation of future operations.

    82.      Based on this economic efficiency evaluation, it is concluded that the project
    has resulted in significant positive development impacts. The consideration of only a
    few of those benefits into the quantitative analysis sufficed to yield positive economic
    results. The achieved economic benefits comply largely with what was anticipated
    during the design stage of the project. This supports the design and implementation of
    the project, in particular the selection of activities in which the project invested. It
    demonstrates that investments in sustainable natural resource management contribute
    significantly to the economic development ambitions of countries such as Kenya as they
    generate and safeguard important direct environmental services and can stimulate
    economic development in rural areas where income opportunities remain sparse.



                                                   22
3.4    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
83.     The NRMP was highly relevant to the GoK’s 2030 goals and to World Bank
strategy. The project disbursement as of the end of November, 2013, is 92% (Annex 1).
Despite shortcomings under the first two components, the project advanced significantly
and validated approaches for decentralized, participatory NRM with active involvement
of specialized parastatals, rural communities dependent on forest and farming (including
indigenous communities) and CBOs. The project has considerably improved the capacity
of WRMA, NIB and KFS in resource monitoring, conservation, project management, and
in implementing participatory approaches to NRM. Despite these positive outcomes
generated by the end of project closing, the original objectives and design were too
optimistic and lacked coherence across project documentation which arguably
contributed to later problems. Delaying factors affected implementation but by adjusting
strategies and reviewing its scope at MTR, it was possible to advance with the
participatory, decentralized and flexible approach through empowered CBOs and
strengthened IAs. Project performance ended being effective, with many valid results
upon which to continue a solid policy and investment dialogue between the Bank and the
GoK. In January 2014, however, evictions carried out by the Government could
undermine post-project sustainability of the CDD activities financed under the forest
component.

3.5    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

84.     Poverty aspects. The project succeeded in promoting and validating new
approaches for improving living conditions among the CBOs and VMGs, alleviating
poverty through better water and forest management practices, and increasing revenues
while supporting better natural resource management in (i) fragile forest environments in
strategic water towers, (ii) critical catchments and groundwater recharge areas, and (iii)
high value irrigated rice growing areas. 145,000 rural people -- sometimes vulnerable or
marginalized and exposed to exogenous shocks -- have benefitted from the irrigation
works at Mwea or the community-driven micro-projects supported under the project:
dairy cows and/or goats, greenhouse tomatoes, tree seedlings, woodlots and poultry, and
so on (see Annex 3). With the strengthened capacity of NIB, WRMA and KFS, the
process continues to advance in most project areas, generating lessons for scaling out.
85.    Gender aspects. As Kenya decentralizes governance, the country’s forest, land
and water resources will increasingly be locally managed or co-managed. This evolution
implies the need to cultivate greater female participation in local resource management
and monitoring. Under NRMP, women were increasingly included (results indicators
show a 50% participation rate in community driven activities, up from 30%), and
empowered in terms of knowledge, self-esteem and attitude to undertake activities to
improve their livelihoods. An economic space has been opened and women are now
enthusiastic to assume more active roles. For example, women who own tea/coffee farms,



                                            23
poultry, dairy cows or other animals are gaining new economic status as they enter into
some activities usually reserved for men. 18 In addition, participation in micro-project
groups provided women with an opportunity to share life experiences, which was
uplifting for some forest women who had never had such opportunities before the project.
86.      Social development. Despite the safeguards concerns, social capital was built.
The NRMP IPPF included a number of activities and responsibilities assigned to KFS but
beyond the scope of KFS’s institutional mandate and the timeframe of the project. For
example, the significant policy interventions and multi-agency actions regarding ancestral
and land rights still require careful attention. Hence, it was agreed at the 2011
restructuring that an Inter-Ministerial Task Force was needed to address these issues; the
Task Force was later folded into the Lands Commission which is the accountable GoK
institution for these issues. The 2011 restructuring also resulted in the CDD livelihoods
support in the forest areas which proved very popular among indigenous communities, as
seen in the well documented requests to the Inspection Panel in Spring 2013 for the
project to continue its support beyond project closing. The CDD micro-projects
implemented by KFS in forests and WRMA outside of forests resulted in overall
improvements in community livelihoods and income generating opportunities. Also, the
capacity building activities and opportunity to participate in socio-economic interest
groups contributed to community cohesion and gave voice to marginalized communities.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

87.      WRMA, NIB and KFS have been strengthened as semi-autonomous specialized
institutions with enhanced capacities to manage, collaborate and implement critical
water and forest resource programs. This achievement is clear in spite of delays and
shortcomings compared to the original planned interventions. The achievements under
NRMP and the partnership approach in which these IAs have involved the communities
in water and forest management and conservation issues are encouraging. Their capacity
has been strengthened through (i) infrastructure development such as rehabilitation of
irrigation, construction of regional and central offices, and the KFS Information Centre
and Conference Facility, (ii) strengthening knowledge and human resources (including
hiring and mainstreaming the first Social Development Specialist at KFS), and (iii)
generation of new knowledge and policy development for irrigation and groundwater.

88.     Community institutions (WRUAs, IWUAs, CFAs and forest dependent VMGs)
have also been strengthened through micro-projects and development of tools to support
participatory approaches and resolve grievances. The on-going work of the parastatals to
support community empowerment and co-management of resources is important for (i)
the future of Kenya’s natural resource base and specifically the need for watershed
approaches that require multi-stakeholder coordination and participation, (ii) the
country’s on-going decentralization, (iii) NIB’s transformative expansion of irrigation,
and (iv) the continued need to clarify land tenure and resource access in line with existing


18
  In Embobut, women from indigenous groups supported by the NRMP’s Forest Component and who were
involved in poultry micro-projects reported that they no longer had to wait for men to buy simple items
such as pencils for their children.

                                                  24
Kenyan law. On this latter point, NRMP has supported KFS to develop and mainstream a
number of tools such as the Process Framework that are well-placed to support co-
management of forests, resource rights, and grievance resolution through mechanisms
developed together with indigenous people -- mechanisms that did not exist before the
project. The NRMP project team (GoK and Bank) also reached out to MSSP and the
Land Commission to encourage mainstreaming of these tools since NRMP and KFS do
not have the mandate to resolve these issues. Much work still needs to be done to
incentivize KFS to move toward co-management of forest resources. For some forest
agencies around the world, such a transformation is a paradigm shift that requires longer-
term engagement than a 3-5 year project allows.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

89.     An unintended positive impact of the Mwea irrigation rehabilitation was a drastic
decline in malaria due to reduced water stagnation following the rehabilitation works.
The Mutithi Health Centre, serving about 1500 farming households in Mwea, confirmed
a decline in clinically reported cases from a monthly average of 166 in 2010 to 2 in 2011
and 0 in 2012 and 2013.
90.    Another unintended positive impact of NRMP was the development of a new
Kenya Groundwater Development and Management Policy, which reflects the changing
knowledge about groundwater in Kenya, including the 2013 National Water Master Plan
supported by JICA, the large new groundwater find in the Turkana district, the new deep
groundwater aquifer discovered in the Coast Region under WaSSIP, and the practical
challenges for managing groundwater for Nairobi.

3.6    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

N/A. Not required for a Core ICR.

4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
91.     Economic conditions in Kenya are currently favorable to further promote a
balanced approach for economic growth and environmental conservation. For most
project areas, there is no substantial risk of backtracking on project achievements given
the general awareness of the importance of NRM for poverty alleviation, food security
and Kenya’s overall development. The GoK’s strong commitment to water resources is
explicit through the recently approved KWSCRP-1. There is growing consciousness
among decision makers and the public to consider environmental impacts while
promoting productivity.
92.    However, land access and customary rights, especially to forest lands, is a critical
component of sustainable poverty reduction and shared prosperity yet remains an
unresolved problem requiring further attention. In the Cherangani Hills, there has been a
substantial long-standing risk to the good development outcomes achieved through the
CDD micro-projects that arose from the VMG Plans that were developed by the
indigenous communities. The risk has been that the MSSP (not an IA of the NRMP) will

                                            25
carry out a resettlement of the Sengwer/Cherangani without sufficiently following (i) the
agreed upon safeguard instruments developed under NRMP, (ii) the many consultations
with forest-dependent indigenous people carried out by KFS, or (iii) the Kenyan law on
The Prevention, Protection and Assistance to Internally Displaced Persons and Affected
Communities Act of 2012 promulgated in January 2013, which appears to be relatively
closely aligned to World Bank safeguard policy concerning customary rights of
indigenous people and resettlement. The Bank raised these concerns to the MSSP and the
Land Commission, which is tasked with addressing issues of historical land injustice.
However, in October 2013, nearly four months after the project closed, it was widely
reported in the media that the GoK was giving IDPs and forest evictees Ksh 400,000 per
household with which to buy land, which implies that the earlier intended plan by the
MSSP to resettle these groups had shifted and was no longer under consideration by the
GoK. Since then, in January 2014, evictions were carried out in the Cherangani Hills that
could affect the development outcomes achieved through the community-driven activities
and trust-building support financed by the NRMP.
93.    Because the financial support to the community level activities in the forested
areas was a very small portion of the total NRMP budget, the overall risk to the entire
Project is rated moderate.
94.     The Bank is committed to continue to partner with the GoK on water and natural
resource management. Particular areas of interest that help mitigate risks to development
outcomes from NRMP include: (i) the on-going efforts to build a transparent and
accountable system for revenue collection and efficient utilization, (ii) work to strengthen
monitoring of water and forest resources, (iii) REDD readiness activities to be financed
by the Bank’s Forest Carbon Partnership Facility (grant not yet signed) to define
equitable benefits sharing arrangements with forest communities in a participatory way,
and (iv) WRMA and KFS could possibly under KWSCRP-2 help develop and implement
PES to link Mombasa’s water users and Mwache dam to the upper watershed.

5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1    Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
95.     The Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry was found to be moderately
unsatisfactory, largely because of the aforementioned issues as discussed in the 2011
Restructuring Paper, including: (i) different intervention areas in the PAD and IPPF
which led to continuous misunderstanding of the Project scope by some stakeholders, (ii)
different PDO phrasings in the Financing Agreement and PAD, (iii) unrealistic indicators
and over-optimistic targets, and (iv) weak implementation readiness by the IAs. On the
other hand, the Bank did convene its worldwide experience for the preparation of a
complex multi-sectoral operation with several line agencies and a strategically relevant
mix of activities targeting the enabling environment and investment on the ground.
Before the approval of the NRMP, the Bank analysed all potential safeguard issues which
the project could trigger and recommended the Borrower to critically assess the issues.
The Bank also analysed alternative designs and the related operation’s capacity as the

                                            26
potential to merge NRMP with another similar CDD Bank financed project in West
Kenya proposing similar approaches. This was rejected and the NRMP was appraised as
a stand-alone project to address long-term institutional reforms in MoWI and MENR.
The Bank considered the procurement capacity of the IAs as highly risky. Resources
were allocated to support transformation of both public sector institutions and
communities, including intense capacity strengthening.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
96.     The Bank’s implementation support mission frequency was timely – on an average
of every 10 weeks given the complexities in the forest sector concerning the long history
of land access and conflict – and intensified as social safeguards challenges arose. The
team proactively addressed enquiries and complaint letters very quickly, carried out fact-
finding missions, and during the last year of implementation, enquiries and complaints
directed to the Bank slowed to only two letters, until the request for inspection came.
Aide memoires documented events and recommendations with clarity and detail. The
number of staff involved in missions ranged from 4 to 11 depending on the borrower’s
evolving needs. Staff specialties were consistent and relevant with the requirements. The
quality of the Bank’s implementation support was judged with regard to focus on
development impact, support and supervision of fiduciary and safeguard aspects, candor,
flexibility and quality of performance reporting.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
97.    Overall the Bank performance is rated as moderately satisfactory, given that the
implementation support was satisfactory and the fact that the Bank adjusted the project in
2011 to address the shortcomings at entry.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
98.     Consistent with the GoK’s reform agenda, the GoK advanced the decentralized
participatory approach by, inter alia, upgrading the role of the new specialized agencies
and engaging more closely with local communities to start the long-term process of
improving co-management of water and forest resources. The government showed
commitment to the implementation of the project through undertaking necessary policy
reforms, releasing counterpart funding, and providing needed facilities. However, there
were some shortcomings with respect to appointing the required personnel for the
development of the new activities, for releasing project funds disbursed by the World
Bank to the IAs, funds absorption in general, and on fiduciary policies.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
99.    WRMA, NIB and KFS are now consolidated as innovative agencies for managing
and developing water resources including public irrigation schemes, and forests. They
have been successfully engaging the local communities through registered WRUAs,

                                            27
IWUAs and CFAs in resources management as a new routine, developing protocols,
operational manuals, management agreements, MOUs, etc. WRMA and NIB also met the
revised targets of increasing revenues or fees collected from water users, increasing their
capacity to monitor and control, and improving management. However, they could not
incorporate and maintain the necessary staff for performing all the additional Project
functions in addition to those being part of their routine, delaying overall progress and
slowing absorption. In other cases there was lack of continuity of Project personnel in
key positions, contributing to delays in implementation. At the 2011 restructuring, with a
moderately unsatisfactory performance rating, indicators and targets had to be adjusted to
align to their capacity to deliver. Performance increased after restructuring once the
project was made more “manageable,” but absorption issues persisted despite a rapid rise
in disbursement in the last year.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
100. Government commitment and ownership of the Project was strong, with most (but
still not all) relevant policies and strategies supported by the project having been put in
place. However, due to initial implementation delays and insufficient support to the
reform agenda, the original ambitious targets had to be revised at restructuring taking
account of the realities of the operational environment and the changes in assumptions
used at the design stage. Further support and coordination with other stakeholders were
required (such as the Ministry of Agriculture, CBOs and NGOs) to improve land use and
management practices for multiple benefits. Implementation was also affected by
bottlenecks at Treasury in channeling Project funds to the IAs -- a problem facing many
Bank financed projects in Kenya.

6.     Lessons Learned

101. The Project offers a number of lessons on institutions, investments, information
and implementation for future GOK programming and external financial support to
natural resources and the sectors it drives or helps protect. It also provides important
lessons for Kenya as it devolves to lower levels of political and resource management.
Details are given in Annex 6, covering participatory approaches to NRM, CDD
mechanisms, water resources management, irrigation, forest resources management, and
project implementation and preparation.

102. The Project adds to the evidence base that natural resources including water,
forest, and soils typically benefit from strong and fair participatory approaches to
managing the resource and sharing the benefits from the resource, underpinned by robust
resource monitoring and grievance redress. Sustainable NRM actions should therefore
consider including (i) strong environmental and socio-economic monitoring underpinned
by strong data gathering and information management, (ii) good incentives for local
resource users to avoid freerider behavior that degrades natural wealth, (iii) secure and
predictable rights to resources by local communities, and (iv) effective coordination on
planning and prioritization among stakeholders and sectors, given that changes in an
upstream area (forested watersheds) affect downstream actors (villages, irrigation users,
cities) and can drive conflict.

                                            28
7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

103. Comments from the Borrower on this ICR draft were received on December 5,
2013, and have been incorporated (See Annex 5.2).




                                       29
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                    Appraisal            Actual/Latest   Percentage
                   Components                       Estimate               Estimate           of
                                                  (USD millions)        (USD millions)   Appraisal
1. Water Resource Mgmt. and Irrigation                  40.2                   31.8         79.10
  1.1 Strengthening capacity of WRMA                    13.9                   11.2          80.6
  1.2 Irrigation Reforms and Investments                26.3                   20.6         78.30
2. Management of Forest Resources                       20.0                   19.9          99.5
 2.1 Forest Sector Institutional Reforms                 9.0                    9.0          100
 2.2 Community Participation & Benefit Sharing           8.5                    8.5          100
 2.3 Comm. & Private Sector Forest Investments           2.4                    2.4          100
3. Microcatchment CDD Investments                        5.5                    5.6        101.80
 3.1 Livelihood Based Investment in Upper Tana           5.5                    5.6        101.80
4. Project Management                                    4.3                    4.6        107.00
 4.1 Management and M&E                                  4.3                    4.6        107.00
                             Total Baseline Cost        70.0                   61.9         88.42
Physical Contingencies                                   1.2                    0.0          0.00
Price Contingencies                                      6.8                    0.0          0.00
                              Total Project Costs       78.0                   61.9         79.40
                     Total Financing Required           78.0                   61.9




(b) Financing
                                                           Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                              Type of
                                                            Estimate       Estimate Percentage of
                Source of Funds                 Co-
                                                              (USD           (USD        Appraisal
                                             financing
                                                            millions)      millions)
Borrower                                    7.40         4.0             54.05         7.40
Local Communities                           2.10         2.00            95.00         2.10
International Development Association (IDA) 68.50        55.90           81.60         68.50




                                             30
                                   Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1 Water Resource Management and Irrigation

Sub-component 1.1: Strengthening capacity of WRMA with direct investments in
Upper-Tana Catchment
Budget: US$13.9 million, actual US$9.4 million as of Project close, 68%
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Table 2.1 Outputs from Sub-component 1.1 (from the Borrower’s Completion Report)
Main            Sub-activities             Target outputs            Observed outputs             Mode of
activity                                                                                          verification
                Construction of regional                             4 (Embu, Kisumu,
                offices (and purchase of                             Machakos, Nanyuki) All
                furniture, curtains, and                             have been completed
                curtain boxes)
                                                                     11 Completed (Muranga,
                                                                     Rumuruti, Kitale,
                Construction of sub-
                                                                     Naivasha, Loitokitok,
                regional offices (and
                                           12 Sub-regional           Nanyuki, Kerugoya,           Field visit, contracts,
                purchase of furniture,
                                           Offices                   Kitui, and Kapenguria,       reports
                curtains, and curtain
                                                                     Siaya, Mombasa, and
                boxes)
                                                                     Kabarnet is 90%
                                                                     complete
                Refurbishment of offices                             Kisumu, Kericho,
Establishment
                (and purchase of                                     Nairobi ( All have been
support for
                furniture, curtains, and                             completed)
WRMA
                curtain boxes)
                Purchase of motor          12 (1 vehicle per         21 Vehicles bought           Payment vouchers,
                vehicles                   office)                                                field visits
                Purchase of motor cycles   24 (2 motor               24 motor cycles bought       Payment vouchers,
                                           cycles/office)                                         field visits
                                           Computers                 53 complete desktop          Payment vouchers,
                                                                     computers+10                 field visits
                                                                     Tablets+53 printers+45
                Purchase of equipment,                               telephone heads, 12
                computers and software                               secretarial set pieces, 17
                                                                     laptops
                                           Software                  Mike Basin, Antivirus,       Payment vouchers
                                                                     MS Office
                                           15 National RGS           12

                                           45 management units       14
                Surface water monitoring   50 Special stations       42                           Progress reports, KII
                                           12 Weather stations       9 (+ 2 cumulative rain
                                                                     gauges)
                                           Equipment                 26 Dippers, 2 ADCP           Progress reports,
Water                                      (Terrameter, dippers,                                  Payment Voucher, KII
resources                                  divers, etc) each in 25
monitoring                                 sub regions and in
                                           Upper Tana
                Groundwater monitoring                               10 completed GWM             Progress reports,
                                                                     boreholes (Kenya High        Payment Voucher, KII
                                           11 Dedicated              School, Kenya
                                           Monitoring boreholes      polytechnic, Mbagathi
                                                                     Ridge, Kikuyu Springs,
                                                                     GTI, TIWI, Kenol,


                                                       31
                                                                      Bungoma Town, Bahati,
                                                                      Rongai)
                                             Equipment (Paqua         26 complete sets of water   Payment Voucher, KII
                                             labs, balances, ovens,   quality equipment
                Water quality monitoring     etc) each in 25 sub
                                             regions and in Upper
                                             Tana
Information     Workshops                                             #
dissemination   Advertisements                                        #
and awareness   Radio announcements                                   #
creation        Pamphlets                                             #
                1. Prioritization of micro
                investments projects in
                the Upper Tana
                2. Socio-economic
                baseline survey
                3. Physiographical
                baseline survey for the
                Upper Tana
                4. Kikuyu springs
                recharge study
                5. Water abstraction and
                pollution survey for
                Thiba and Ragat rivers
                6. ESIA study in relation
Studies
                to the preparation of
(Critical                                                                                         Progress report,
                WRUA action and              Report                   Technical report availed
knowledge                                                                                         technical reports
                investment plans
products)
                7. ESIA of check dams
                and micro-projects
                8. Harmonization of laws
                related to Water
                Resources Management
                9. ESIA for CDD
                projects
                10. PCR for WRMA
                components
                11. Study to align WRM
                to the requirements of the
                constitution and
                determine the institutions
                financial sustainability
                WRUA capacity building                                                            Reports
                                                                      141
Catchment       and SCMP workshops
restoration     Small-scale sediment         29                                                   KII, Field visit
                                                                      2 check dams (at Kaberia
activities in   control structures in
                                                                      and Kieni)
the Upper       Upper Tana
Tana            WRUA formation               30                       47                          Progress report, KII
Catchment                                    30 SCMPs                 33                          Progress report, KII
                SCMP implementation
                                             implemented
                Training of staff on                                  81 individual training
                interpretation and                                    and 2 group training
                analysis on WRM,                                      sessions of a total of 32
                procurement, financial                                people
Training        management, project
                management, record
                keeping and monitoring
                WRUA training on             75                       #
                IWRM




                                                         32
1.      The key features of this sub-component and the complementary component 3
included: (a) Infrastructure support for improving data analysis and interpretation (offices
built or refurbished, vehicles and motor cycles, computers, software, and equipment
purchased); (b) water resources monitoring support (funding for drilling and equipping
dedicated ground water monitoring boreholes, purchase and installation of river gauging
and weather stations for monitoring surface water, and equipment for monitoring water
quality, analysis and interpretation); (c) catchment protection investments using SCMPs
developed by WRUAs; (d) investments in information dissemination and awareness
creation on WRMA activities; (e) capacity building of WRMA and community user
groups co-managing water resources; and (f) investments in communities livelihood
enhancing micro-projects for supporting sustainable management of natural resources.
2.       Some activities were not new to WRMA since they were part of their routine
activities. The main limitation encountered was the planning of project activities among
the staff implementing the project, being either inadequately prepared or having other
demanding duties. Too often critical staff was transferred from the project affecting the
learning curve and causing delays due to lack of consistent continuity in the new tasks. 19
As a result, WRMA’s absorptive capacity for implementing those new core investments
through the WRUAs’ SCMPs was below the expected levels, although disbursement
accelerated in the last year of implementation dramatically, exceeding results targets.
Investments for catchment management were critical for promoting livelihood generating
activities and SLM practices for reducing erosion and sediments in rivers and reservoirs.
The PAD budgeted US$1.14 million and US$5.65 million for financing training activities
and catchment micro-projects respectively, but only US$115,000 and US$1.14 million
were spent on them. Some of these WRM investments ended up being done through
direct investments by WRMA as agreed at MTR and the 2011 restructuring.
3.      As stated in the PAD, “catchment management programs need to integrate
conservation activities with the requirements of local farmers and communities to
undertake sustainable economic activity”. Farmers of all types to be active participants in
conservation activities needed to be trained and receive incentives so that conservation
and improved production goals coincide. From the US$6.8 million budget for this to
happen, only US$1.3 million was spent due to the implementation delays, the insufficient
absorptive capacity of WRMA for training WRUAs and supporting the SCMPs
investments, and the time needed for WRUAs and farmers to assume the new practices.
Activities for training and sensitizing of farmers to improve land-use and water protection
methods were done but far below the PAD planned levels. In the targeted catchment
hotspots, more intensive interventions for erosion control and terracing, small to medium
water storage structures and the rehabilitation of existing once, as well as further
enhancing of on-farm agronomic practices would have had the stronger targeted impact


19
  At the end of the implementation about 80% of WRMA staff in the project was completely new. Also,
human resources for some of the project activities needed to be outsourced to consultants following long
procedures.

                                                    33
in WRM. The WRMA officers were expected to work more intensively and closely with
those from KFS to develop synergies in the project areas and with their communities.
4.       The lack of qualified, equipped, and dedicated contractors for some specialized
activities (e.g. drilling and equipping of boreholes) also limited the expected monitoring
capacity of water resources. Re-tendering was the way forward to ensure quality work.
Although this helped it also contributed to further delays on implementation. The impacts
of the slow start-up and the other above mentioned factors resulted in lack of tangible
project progress in the first two implementation years. After restructuring the activities
involving communities (e.g. SCMPs, WRUA, and CDD subprojects) showed a renewed
dynamic. Safeguard issues were adequately sorted and trust and confidence of
communities on the project interventions grew. As reduced targets and more clarity was
introduced at restructuring, and as WRMA’s strengthening support was almost complete
by 2010, it also became more committed and effective working with the communities.
5.      Intermediate Indicator #1: 30 WRUAs micro-catchment action plans developed
and approved by WRMA was surpassed as 51 WRUAs had their SCMPs approved.
WRMA continues facilitating and overseeing the development, approval and execution of
SCMPs through the WRUAs based on participatory approaches and awareness creation.
Guidelines for developing the SCMPs and for implementing Integrated Water Resource
Management (IWRM) procedures are being followed. Still, investments under SCMP
were only 20% of the planned amount and so the SLM improvements implemented, due
to the short maturity time left for the adequate execution of the SCMPs investments.
6.      Based on the above, the rating for the subcomponent against the original PDO is
moderately unsatisfactory. If compared with the restructured PDO, progress becomes
satisfactory: WRMA ended up strengthened and equipped for managing water resources
with decentralized activities and involving WRUAs in the preparation and
implementation of SCMPs; collecting increasing revenues from water users; and with
identified ways for expanding good practices to other catchments. Hence, the weighted
average rating for the subcomponent is considered moderately satisfactory.


Sub-component 1.2: Consolidation of Irrigation Sector Reforms and Investments
Budget US$26 million, actual US$18.1 million as of Project close, 69%
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
7.       The objective of this subcomponent was to contribute to sustainable development
of the irrigation sector through consolidation of reforms, and of the National Irrigation
Board (NIB); and the development of irrigation schemes in the downstream part of the
Nzoia river basin. Outputs would include: (i) achievement of agreed reform targets; (ii)
capacity strengthening of the NIB, and of six Irrigation Water Users Associations
(IWUAs); (iii) complementing the rehabilitation of 12,800 ha from five public irrigation
schemes; and (iv) the development of the Lower Nzoia Irrigation Scheme (LNIS) adding
about 3,500 ha of new irrigated area next to the existing Bunyala irrigation scheme.
8.     Procurement packages included: (a) preparation of the NIB vision statement,
functional analysis, an irrigation strategy and business plan, an Irrigation Act, and NIB
Corporate Plan 2008 - 2013; (b) capacity needs assessment, training plan and capacity

                                            34
building of NIB; (c) preparation of operations manual; (d) feasibility assessment,
feasibility study and detailed design of rehabilitation of four irrigation schemes (Mwea,
Ahero, West Kano, and Perkerra); (e) detailed design for the new LNIS, (f) rehabilitation
works for the four schemes, (g) supervision of works; (h) irrigation development in
LNIS; and (i) works supervision of LNIS. It was an over ambitious plan under normal
conditions, and moreover considering the weak capacity of NIB, combined with other
delaying factors as was the lack of readiness for implementation, the fact that this project
was the first Kenyan irrigation investments to be financed by the Bank in 20 years, and
the conditionality to define policy guidelines and sector reforms from MoWI side, before
some investments could be implemented by the autonomous NIB.
9.       The reform targets were to be achieved before July 1, 2008. MoWI developed the
Irrigation Policy in 2009, and the development of the Irrigation Act, the draft new I&D
Bill were prepared but are still to be approved. The I&D Sector Institutional Reform
study was completed in July 2009 but the developed Irrigation Sector Alignment Action
Plan and the Irrigation, Drainage & Water Storage Development Investment Plans are
still to be implemented. NIB finalized the institutional realignment study in November
2009 but implementation needs the two policy level documents to be approved by MoWI.
Once ready they will support and anchor preparation of a vision statement by NIB,
functional analysis, development of Irrigation Strategy and Business Plan, Corporate
Plan, preparation of an operations manual, capacity needs assessment, preparation of
training plan and capacity strengthening of NIB, transfer of the management of agreed
irrigation infrastructure to the communities, and commencement of the implementation of
an Action Plan to transform NIB into an irrigation service provider. Both MoWI and NIB
are still facing challenges to achieve the remaining reform and realignment deliverables
of the irrigation subcomponent. At the MoWI level these definitions need long review
process with several stakeholders (including cabinet and parliament) out of their control.
10.     The objective of capacity building was to empower IWUAs to be able to take
charge of key irrigation functions such as O&M, management and administration of
tertiary and sub-canal, and also preparing users for the irrigation management transfer
(IMT) policy implementation. NIB undertook capacity assessment and development of
action plans for the 5 projects’ IWUAs, which was finalized in May 2010. Based on these
actions plans, NIB has built capacity in these IWUAs on key aspects. NIB delivered
capacity building interventions to 11,162 farmers out of which 30% were women and
20% youth against the appraisal target of 8,500 users in the five schemes. Capacity was
developed to these IWUAs and once the delayed development of the reformed legal
framework is in place, they will be prepared and able to accomplish their goals.
11.    Impact of training and capacity building under this subcomponent included: (i)
increased role of IWUAs in schemes’ management, improved water use planning,
avoided potential conflict during water scarcity periods, (ii) clarified roles and
responsibilities between NIB and IWUAs, developing synergies; (iii) improved
information systems for management; (iv) improved water management; (v) adoption of
technologies enhancing productivity (i.e. System of Rice Intensification (SRI)); and (v)
enhanced preparation of IWUAs bylaws. However, while increased users ownership and
water management participation have been achieved in all the five schemes benefiting
from IWUAs capacity building, the poor state of infrastructure and services delivery in

                                             35
these 4 schemes (West Kano, Ahero, Bunyala and Perkerra) still limits significantly the
development of their systems.
12.     The Mwea irrigation rehabilitation achieved about 98% progress by the end of the
project. Removal of piles of soil from de-silted and constructed canals as well as from
other structure sites and preparation of an O&M manual which include flow measuring
gauges calibration and as-built drawings represent the remaining 2%. These activities are
expected to be successfully completed by the end of defects liability period and about
9,500 ha of irrigable land is now upgraded (including new outgrowers brought in to the
scheme) with improved irrigation and an active IWUA in place.
13.     The construction of the new Lower Nzoia irrigation scheme was supposed to
begin early during the project implementation period but was delayed partially due to
lack of implementation readiness, slow procurement of consultancies, and poor quality of
contracted detailed designs 20. Given the proximity of the closing date and documented
concerns about absorption, there was insufficient time to carry out both the detailed
design and the construction. It was then decided and agreed to prepare a new detailed
design for 7,000 ha in Lower Nzoia (including the originally planned first and second
phase) which was contracted to an international consultant in February 2013. This work
has advanced well in spite of the tight schedule, and the actual construction will be
financed under the new Bank financed KWSCRP-1 approved in June 2013.
14.     Intermediate Indicator #1: Number of users benefitting from improved irrigation
service delivery (30,000 users). Besides 10,000 users expected to benefit from Lower
Nzoia, the rehabilitation of Mwea, Ahero, West Kano, Bunyala and Perkerra schemes
targeted to intensify the use of existing 12,800 ha benefitting about 20,000 users, through
improved infrastructure and IWUAs enhanced management. At project restructuring the
target for rehabilitation was reduced to only the Mwea system with 9427 ha, but still the
IWUAs strengthening would reach all the schemes. At the end of the project 9740 ha
were rehabilitated in Mwea scheme 21. Out of the total original 30,000 users targeted to be
benefit from improved irrigation service in Lower Nzoia and Mwea, 11,000 from Mwea
benefitted with rehabilitation and improved service. Also, about 4200 farmers have
benefited through improved irrigation service as their IWUAs were strengthened but not
from the planned systems’ rehabilitation. Because Lower Nzoia irrigation was not
constructed under NRMP (but was transferred to KWSCRP-I), the original target to
benefit a total of 30,000 farmers was not fully achieved.
15.     Intermediate Indicator #2: Area under irrigation in project intervention areas
(3,500 ha). This target was partially achieved. The new construction of the Lower Nzoia
Irrigation scheme was not implemented under NRMP is being financed under the new


20
   After the feasibility study was prepared in 2008/9, a national consulting firm was hired on January 2010
for the detail design after two years of procurement process. The selection of this firm which was unable to
deliver the required quality design on time, and the long decision process of hiring and termination of the
contract on May 2012 (after the company proved unsuccessful), have contributed to this underperformance.
21
   Works included:(i) dykes for flood control; (ii) lining and the box culverts installed in the canal running
across the town avoiding the release of domestic wastes polluting the canals; (iii) lining of main canals
improving the conveyance efficiency; and (iv) construction of gates and other water control structures for
improving control of water flows and delivery. Waterborne diseases were also reduced significantly.

                                                     36
    IDA-supported Water Security and Climate Resilience Project (WSCRP) approved in
    2013. As such, no new irrigated area was delivered by NRMP for the Lower Nzoia
    scheme. For the Mwea irrigation rehabilitation works, however, 9500 ha has been
    improved by rehabilitating 7,250 ha and expanding 1,250 ha into out-grower areas. This
    achievement is more than a planned target of 9,427 ha. Note that the PAD’s results
    framework’s indicator did not distinguish between new irrigation and rehabilitated
    irrigation schemes and listed the target as a generic 3500 ha. The PAD text, however,
    gave a rehabilitation target of 12,800 ha and an expanded irrigated area target of 3500 ha.
    The RP’s results framework distinguished explicitly between the two and the Project
    tracked both to closure.
    16.     Intermediate Indicator #3: % cost recovery for O&M of the project’s irrigation
    schemes target at appraisal was 70% from participating farmers. Through strengthening
    of IWUAs, the project aimed to enhance the levels of payments of O&M charges. The
    higher cost recovery (more than 90% in Mwea) confirms that farmers’ enhanced input
    and governance through capacity building and improved irrigation water delivery, is
    capable of sustaining production by covering a higher part of the costs of services
    delivered. With the increased availability of reliable water supply achieved due to the
    intervention, Mwea’s IWUAs are proposing to increase the current level of O&M fees by
    50%.
    17.     Intermediate Indicator #4: Percentage of scheme users satisfied with NIB/IWUAs’
    O&M Services has increased to 95%. At baseline, the satisfaction level was only 54%.
    Issues raised at baseline were, in order of importance: mismanagement of IWUAs,
    inefficient service provision, high water fees, the ‘no consultative approach of the group
    leaders’ and poor participation by members. Capacity building strengthened the IWUAs
    and their roles and responsibilities are now facilitating the implementation of the O&M
    plans and improving water distribution through joint collaboration with NIB.
    18.     In sum, the reform process in the irrigation sector is still far from being
    consolidated, the capacity building was implemented adequately, but the investment in
    rehabilitation and construction of irrigation infrastructure was only completed in MRS.
    The subcomponent spent only US$16 million of the budgeted funds, 61% of the
    allocated US$26.3 million. Even when compared with the restructured PDO which
    included the construction of Lower Nzoia, and in spite of the commendable efforts
    displayed by the NIB, the overall rating for the irrigation subcomponent output is
    moderately unsatisfactory.


    Component 2: Management of Forest Resources
    Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

    Table 2.2 Outputs from Component 2 (from the Borrower’s Completion Report)

  Activity                  Indicators                 Appraisal     Actual                 Remarks
                                                        Target     achievement

Developing     Completion rate (%) of Forest Service      100         100*       The KFS strategic plan had
and            strategic plan implementation                                     about 129 activities. Of the
implementing                                                                     aforementioned number of

                                                         37
  Activity                    Indicators                 Appraisal     Actual                 Remarks
                                                          Target     achievement
a KFS                                                                              activities, 28 were selected for
strategic plan                                                                     implementation under NRMP.
                                                                                   The completion rating is based
                                                                                   on these activities which were
                                                                                   all implemented.
                                                                                   Developed under “Miti Mingi
                 Completion rate (%) of Business plan       100          *         Initiative”. Therefore it was not
                 implementation                                                    rated even though it was planned
                                                                                   ta appraisal.
                                                                                   The plan was prepared with
                 Completion rate (%) of human               100          *         support of NRMP. Was not rated
                 development plan implementation                                   because it is a long-term plan
                                                                                   whose implementation will go
                                                                                   beyond the life of the project.
                 No. of new buildings constructed.           9           8         The buildings constructed
                                                                                   include; Information Centre in
                                                                                   Nairobi, Hospitality and
                                                                                   Conference facility at Londiani,
                                                                                   Offices cum lecture rooms at
                                                                                   University of Eldoret and 5
                                                                                   zonal offices at Bungoma,
                                                                                   Nandi, West Pokot, Vihiga and
                                                                                   Trans-Nzoia.
                                                                                   In spite of the major
                                                                                   achievements indicated, the KFS
                                                                                   headquarter that was envisioned
Construction                                                                       was dropped in May 2013 due to
and                                                                                time constrains.
Rehabilitation
of office        No. of building rehabilitated                           1         Dormitory was rehabilitated at
buildings                                                                          Londiani campus

                 Completion rate (%) of Equipping the       100          *         Furniture, 100 computers for
                 constructed and rehabilitated offices                             field offices, 200 mobile tablets,
                                                                                   communication equipment,
                                                                                   laptops, TV sets, VCDs among
                                                                                   other equipment were purchased.
                                                                                   It was not possible to rate
                                                                                   because it was not clear whether
                                                                                   the needs were met.

                 No. of vehicles bought                                  64        KFS bought 61 4x4 vehicles, a
                                                                                   minibus, a saloon car and a 7-ton
                                                                                   truck.
Purchase of
Vehicles,        No. of motorcycles bought                               36        The purchase of an additional
motorcycles                                                                        115 motorcycles was cancelled
and                                                                                due to challenges in obtaining
firefighting                                                                       tax exemptions and time
equipment                                                                          constraints.
                                                                                   Workshops were held for
                 No. of community training workshops                     15        training of local communities in
                 held                                                              various forest zonal areas
                                                                                   including VMGs. Over 900
                                                                                   persons were trained in different

                                                           38
  Activity                      Indicators                  Appraisal     Actual                 Remarks
                                                             Target     achievement
                                                                                      areas under NRMP.
Enhancing                                                                             KFS staff were trained in
                  No. of KFS Staff trained under various                   388        various skills including forest
human
                  expertise                                                           assessment, transformative
resources
capacity                                                                              leadership, VMGs conflict
within      the                                                                       management and Participatory
forest sector.                                                                        forest management skills.
                  No. of new employees (male/female)                        4         KFS employed an MIS expert,
                  and their profession                                                Social Development Specialist
                                                                                      and 2 clerks of works,
                                                                                      Procurement

                  No. of forest Maps Digitized                 461         460        All forest maps have been
                                                                                      digitized except 1
                  Completion rate (%) of the production         -            -        Activities under this indicator
                  and public availability of new forest                               were dropped during project
                  cover maps of Kenya                                                 restructuring in 2011. The
                                                                                      activity was carried out under
                                                                                      Climate Change Response
                                                                                      Program through a grant from
                                                                                      the Japanese government.
Forest
resources         Boundary demarcation of forest                           1600       Digitization of the boundaries
inventory         reserves in KMs.                                                    was completed on Kakamega,
including                                                                             Mt. Elgon, Cherengani and
demarcating,                                                                          Aberdares forest ecosystem
mapping and                                                                           blocks.
assessments.
                  Forest Resources Assessment (FRA) in       120,000      140,000     The assessment was done for
                  acreage                                                             plantation forests only but
                                                                                      indigenous and farm forests
                                                                                      were not.

                  New area brought under forest cover in      2,500        7,124      The re-afforested areas were for
                  project intervention areas.                                         plantations in degraded areas

Planting or       No. of model nurseries established and        3           *         1 design each for the Model Tree
reforestation     seedlings planted so far both                                       Nurseries and Farm Forest
of degraded       exotic/indigenous.                                                  Clinics which were to be
forest areas.                                                                         replicated are complete but due
                                                                                      to time constrains are yet to be
                                                                                      implemented.

Design and        Completion rate (%) of Developing             -            -        During the transformation of the
implementatio     and implementing of an improved                                     Forest Department to KFS,
n of a strategy   forest revenue system.                                              challenges unforeseen during
to improve                                                                            appraisal led to concentration on
forest revenue                                                                        key activities.

                  RPF, ESMF and IPPF                                                  These were developed and
                                                                                      utilized during NRMP
                                                                                      implementation.
                                                                                      EIA reports were prepared for all
                  No. of Project Activities that required                   8         the 8 buildings constructed.
Developing
                  EIA reports and reports prepared.                                   Information Centre in Nairobi,
and


                                                              39
  Activity                     Indicators                 Appraisal     Actual                 Remarks
                                                           Target     achievement
implementing                                                                        Hospitality and Conference
social                                                                              facility at Londiani, Offices cum
safeguards                                                                          lecture rooms at University of
                                                                                    Eldoret and 5 zonal offices at
                                                                                    Bungoma, Nandi, West Pokot,
                                                                                    Vihiga and Trans-Nzoia.
                  No. of Vulnerable and Marginalized          4           7         7 VMG plans were developed
                  Group Plans prepared and activities                               and are under implementation.
                  initiated according to defined work-
                  schedules

                  No. of RAP reports prepared                 -            -        No resettlement was undertaken
                                                                                    during NRMP implementation.
                                                                                    Therefore RAPs were not
                                                                                    prepared.
Compensation      No. of households compensated and                                 No resettlement was undertaken
                  relocated                                   -            -        during NRMP implementation.
                                                                                    Therefore RAPs were not
                                                                                    prepared.
Relocation of     No. and type of community services                                None of the VMGs were
community         relocated and location                      -            -        relocated during NRMP.
services                                                                            Therefore no services were
                                                                                    relocated.
Support      or                                                                     These were projects captured for
establishing of   No. of livelihood projects supported.                 1700        the livelihood activities
alternative                                                           households    implemented by VMGs.
livelihoods
                                                                                    KFS in collaboration with other
                                                                                    implementing agencies (NIB &
                                                                                    WRMA) also jointly
                                                                                    implemented livelihood
                                                                                    activities at the Upper Tana
                                                                                    Catchment area under NRMP
                                                                                    component 3 that was
                                                                                    implemented by WRMA.
Development
and piloting of   No. of schemes operational                  -            -        Activities under this indicator
PES schemes                                                                         were dropped during
and facilitate                                                                      restructuring
carbon
emission
trading

Partnership       No. of models developed and any             -            -        These were not developed
models for        benefits shared so far.                                           during NRMP.
community                                                                           Conflict redress mechanism was
participation     No. of conflict addressed                               6         developed and used to solve
and benefit                                                                         some of the conflicts six area
sharing                                                                             including Trans-Nzoia, West
                                                                                    Pokot and Embotut.
                  No. of community groups engaged in          -            -        A partnership framework for
                  joint forest management.                                          forest conservation was
                                                                                    developed but no formal
                                                                                    agreements were made in joint
                                                                                    forest management.



                                                            40
  Activity                    Indicators                   Appraisal     Actual                 Remarks
                                                            Target     achievement
                No. of people who participated in
                capacity Building in Participatory                        300        CFA committee members were
                Forest Management - PFM                                              trained.
Ecosystem       No. of Participatory Forest                                          Five year PFMPs were
Based Forest    Management Plans Prepared and                              6         developed and are under
Management      implementation completion rate (%).                                  implementation in various areas
Plans and                                                                            including Zaina, Kaberua,
participatory                                                                        Timboroa, Lorenge, Sengalo and
forest                                                                               Serengoni.
management
plans.          No. of Ecosystem Management Plans
                Prepared and implementation                                2         Five year plans were prepared
                completion rate (%).                                                 for Aberdares and kakamega and
                                                                                     are currently under
                                                                                     implementation.

                No. of KFS staff trained in facilitating                  4,800      KFS staff were trained on
                their uptake of investment                                           investment opportunities.
                opportunities in private sector

                No. of workshops held to sensitize                         1         A workshop was organized at
                investment opportunities and training                                Londiani targeting forest officers
                communities in relevant skills for
                investment
                                                                                     Activities under this indicator
                No. of community and private sector            -            -        were halted by a court injunction
                players involved in forest management                                requested by NACOFA.
                or are on the waiting list
                Completion rate (%) of equipping the
                Centre and installation of ICT                 -            -        The Information centre was
Promotion of                                                                         equipped with computers and
Community       infrastructure.
                                                                                     other ICT equipment
and Private     No. of forest blocks transferred to
Sector          private entities and/or communities for        -            -        The transfer of forest blocks to
Investment in   management of production;                                            private sector was halted by a
Commercial                                                                           court injunction sought by
                                                                                     NACOFA.
                Completion rate (%) of Developing
                and implementing of instruments for            -            -        Activities under this indicator
                transparent resources valuation and                                  were halted by a court injunction
                tendering;                                                           sought by NACOFA.
                Completion rate (%) of developing and
                implementing of memoranda, leases              -            -        Activities under this indicator
                and contract models.                                                 were halted by a court injunction
                                                                                     sought by NACOFA.
                Completion rate (%) of developing and
                implementing an improved log sale              -            -        Activities under this indicator
                system                                                               were halted by a court injunction
                                                                                     sought by NACOFA.
                No. of study tours on
                commercialization of forest resources          -            -        Activities under this indicator
                to enable community and private                                      were halted by a court injunction
                sector investment.                                                   sought by NACOFA.
                Completion rate (%) of developing and
                implementing an action plan for                -            -        Activities under this indicator
                improving forest taxation and                                        were halted by a court injunction
                investment environment in plantations                                sought by NACOFA.




                                                             41
19.      Forests play a critical role in Kenya’s society and culture: conservation and
provision of water resources, carbon sinks, employment, wildlife habitat, reduction of
soil erosion and production of raw materials. However, weak capacity in forest
institutions, political interference, inadequate business environment and budgetary
allocation, corrupt practices, improper disposal of forest land and preferential licensing
led to poor management of forests. The project-supported reforms aimed to strengthen
the capacity of the KFS to effectively perform its mandate enabling institutional
arrangements to foster forest governance building both community and staff capacity,
improving revenue capture not supported in the GOK budget, and supporting KFS to
become a semi-autonomous and effective institution. The implementation of NRMP
CDD VMGPs resulted in a continuous reduction in safeguard-related complaints from
VMGs due to efficient response from KFS using the grievance mechanism developed
under the project, involving quick responses to enquires and a continued reorientation of
KFS field staff, in particular forest guards, towards greater community sensitivity.
Subcomponent 2.1 Forest Sector Institutional Reforms
Budget: US$9.0 million, actual US$8.4 million as of Project close, 93%
Rating: Satisfactory
20.      The Forest Act led a radical shift in policy towards the engagement of
communities in forest management giving considerable weight to the participation of
CFAs. The CFAs established and supported have gained considerable practical
knowledge in NRM. Their continued involvement in the NRM and partnership with KFS
ensures that achievements will be sustained beyond the project lifetime. The
implementation of VMGPs and the institutionalization of the participatory consultations
approach is an important effort towards sustainability of project gains raising the
prospects of continued involvement of VMGs in forest protection and management.
Initially, KFS was ill-placed to effectively implement this approach as it had few skills in
social development issues. The NRMP has given KFS the practical experience and the
process training required for achieving this task through capacity building, training and
the livelihoods supported micro-projects. At closing, good progress was also made in
infrastructural development areas with the construction of key buildings 22, as well as the
purchase of 61 vehicles and 36 motorcycles to support forest conservation and extension
activities.
21.     At restructuring the project dropped two dated covenants under the forest
component, as their activities were addressed elsewhere: (i) the rapid assessment of forest
resources was financed by the Government of Japan as part of the REDD readiness
process in Kenya; and (ii) the review of relevant land related policies and laws and
identifying areas in need of harmonization with respect to resettlement was taken as part
of the development of a National Resettlement Policy. A “Draft Evictions and
Resettlement Guidelines” was developed by the Ministry of Lands and the review of all
laws and regulations to ensure consistency with the 2010 Kenya Constitution was
ongoing. The restructured project freed credit proceeds to be used to: (i) provide expertise



22
  (KFS Information Centre in Nairobi, Hospitality and Conference facility at Londiani, and the Office cum
lecture rooms for Department of Forestry and Wood Science at Moi University, Eldoret)

                                                   42
in GIS/remote sensing; (ii) improve capacity building for KFS and other stakeholders;
and (iii) rehabilitate other existing infrastructure. Resources were also shifted to better
align things to institutional priorities (e.g. water allocation/quality monitoring and
control, climate change).
22.     Intermediate Indicator #1: implementation of KFS strategic plan activities - 70%
completion at closing was attained. The strategic plan was formally launched in 2009 and
the institutional capacity of KFS was significantly enhanced through sector reforms,
training of staff, infrastructure development, provision of vehicles, and increased
revenues aiming to support forest conservation and extension activities. The ISO
Certification of the KFS process is awaiting issuance of the official certificate.
Subcomponent 2.2: Community Participation and Benefit Sharing
Budget: US$8.5 million, actual US$7.9 million as of Project close, 92.9%
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
23.     This subcomponent aimed to enhance community participation and benefit
sharing by identifying and prioritizing an array of partnership models to implement the
legislative framework and improve benefit sharing, as well as preparing a framework to
curb forest degradation and enhance sustainable access by local communities to forest
resources.
24.    Intermediate Indicator #1: New area brought under forest cover in project
intervention areas. The achievement was double the end of project target, with 7,124 ha
under forest cover achieved by June 2013, against the target of 3,500 Ha. This
accomplishment was attained through the involvement of the CFAs and intensive
planting of trees during the long rain seasons.
25.     Intermediate Indicator #2: Number of schemes incorporating payment for
environmental services (PES). The original target (dropped at restructuring) was that 50
schemes would be originating PES at closing. The target was not attained: there is no
PES scheme realized in the project areas. KFS is anticipating increasing its revenue
collection from PES schemes, carbon trading, forest products harvesting and form
designating ecotourism areas. The participation of local communities in the management
of forests is expected to reduce the cost of enforcing norms and of general forest
management. KFS as a statutory agency will receive funding from the exchequer to
supplement revenues to fund its activities and also for enhancing relations with donors
and other development partners.
26.     Intermediate Indicator #3: 20 VMGPs prepared and activities initiated according
to defined work schedules: At closing, 7 VMGPs initiated interventions according to
work schedules. Benefits and positive impacts are being realized including: (i) change of
attitude by both KFS and the VMGs helping to create a conducive partnership and
working atmosphere; (ii) capacity building through the training of the VMGs in group
dynamics, conflict resolution within community and with the KFS (iii) VMGs are
participating fully in the NRMP safeguard activities; (iv) better conservation of forests,
and (v) improved income for many VMGs who had or are implementing micro-projects.




                                              43
27.     Intermediate Indicator #4: KFS technical staff (400) trained in participatory
forest management (PFM) was achieved as 100 KFS technical staff received training in
PFM and 388 received training on VMGs safeguards policy.
28.      In spite of significant progress the KFS has still to institutionalize proper benefit
sharing models between itself and the communities involved in the NRM activities,
thereby synchronizing the interest of partners in NRM. It is still necessary to clarify cost
and benefit sharing options including the use of PES and the ways in which FMPs would
be developed in the context of joint management. KFS incorporated a full-time Social
Development Specialist to support the agency’s engagements with communities beyond
the life of NRMP in addition to all the other specialists who were contracted for NRMP.
Subcomponent 2.3: Community and Private Sector Investment in Commercial Forestry
Budget: US$2.4 million, actual US$2.2 million as of Project close, 92%
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
29.     Intermediate Indicator #1: Five production forests management transferred to the
private sector target could not be achieved. Progress towards this goal included the
preparation of guidelines for the transfer of management of forests to the private sector
but the actual transfer process could not follow as it was stopped by the National Alliance
of Community Forest Associations (NACOFA) through a court injunction.

Component 3: Livelihoods Investments in the Upper Tana Catchment
Budget: US$5.5 million, actual cost US$9.3 million as of Project close, 169%
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

Table 2.3 Outputs from Component 3 (from the Borrower’s Completion Report)
 Main         Sub-activities                   Target Outputs               Achievements
 activity
              CDD manual development           CDD manual
                                                                            CDD manual
 Livelihood   Selection of implementing CBOs   Develop selection criteria
 enhancing    Training of CBOs                                              # of trainings (119,771 people
 NRM                                                                        in the CBOs that received
 micro-                                                                     training)
 projects     Implementation of CDD projects   500 CBO micro-projects       706 CBO micro-projects
              Environmental Social Audit                                    #


30.     Implemented by WRMA, this component’s outcome is considered to be highly
satisfactory not only because it has fully been disbursed and met all its targets, but also
because it shows results that have, or are likely to generate remarkable impacts (i.e.
energy efficient jikos and biogas plants at schools – an activity which has displaced
firewood use by an estimated 75%) benefiting CBOs through environmentally friendly
livelihoods schemes. Using a CDD approach, the IA supported proposals from
communities in the treated catchments and forest perimeters, investing in livelihood
enhancing schemes that directly or indirectly favour natural resources. Implementation
had a slow uptake at the initial stages and a rapid increase towards the project final years
as momentum grew. The component reached a total of 4145 direct beneficiaries of
community-driven livelihoods support micro-projects, which together with their
household members add to about 25,000 beneficiaries. While it is too early to fully assess

                                                 44
impacts in terms of improvements in the people’s livelihoods, indications are that if the
current momentum among beneficiaries is sustained, livelihoods will continue to improve.
It is expected that new schemes will be developed as other communities and projects
adopt similar schemes.
31.      Intermediate Indicator #1: 500 CDD livelihood based micro-projects supported.
Target was surpassed by 42 percent. A total of 713 CBOs with a membership of 119,771
were mobilized and trained by the financed proposals from communities in the treatment
catchments and forest perimeters. About 51% of members were women. The four public
calls attracted 3,332 proposals out of which 706 schemes were funded costing Ksh 404
million (80% financed by the project grants and 20 percent by CBOs). About 260 line
agency staff and 4721 CBO leaders (2644 men and 2077 women) were trained on
governance, financial management, procurement, M&E and reporting.
32.      The WRMA was the Lead Agency and responsible for: the implementation of the
NRM livelihood component, chairing the Regional Project Implementation Committee
(RPIC) 23, calling for meetings, supervision of the activities of the NRM Secretariat and
instituting measures to recover resources in the event of misuse of the funds. The three
IAs were responsible for the operations of their respective CBOs and accountable for
supervising their performance, fiscal management and satisfactory conclusion of the
group activities. The RPIC also engaged all relevant stakeholders in the process of
providing the required support to CBOs.
33.     The NRM Secretariat reported to the RPIC. Responsibilities included: publishing
of the launch of the call for proposals, ensuring that all steps of the process were
followed, ensuring sufficient material concerning manuals and other information required
was available on the web site (http://www.wrma.or.ke), training POs and line agency
staff on the use of CDD manual and field verification, screening of proposals,
maintaining data base and presenting to the RPIC the evaluated proposals and
recommendations for selection, monitoring and participating in field verification
activities, maintaining the database on the status of all proposals and communicating to
all stakeholders.
34.    A total of 25 different types of enterprises and 706 micro-projects were funded
and implemented following the four calls for presentation of proposals. Table 2.4
provides details on the type of CDD schemes financed and their frequency.

                  Table 1: Number of Funded Projects per Enterprise
               Enterprises                        No. of projects               % of total



23
   The technical agencies represented on the RPIC included the Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock, Water
and Irrigation, Fisheries, and Gender and Social Development; NEMA, TARDA, KENGEN, etc. RPIC’s
responsibilities included: providing for oversight linkages and cooperation between stakeholders in support
of CBOs in relation to their specific activities, approving and reviewing of the CDD manual and the system
of operations, approving proposals and determination of fund allocations, approval of projects where cost
exceeded funding ceiling, assuring support of groups in the implementation of their activities, ensuring the
role and functions of the respective stakeholders, notifying and reporting progress and ensuring respective
line agencies field staff were informed and supported NRMP livelihood enhancing activities.

                                                    45
Artificial Insemination                                7                             1.0
Bamboo                                                 1                             0.1
Bee Keeping                                            42                            6.0
Bio-latrine                                            23                            3.2
Brick Making                                           3                             0.4
Capacity Building                                      51                            7.2
Cooking Oil Press                                      1                             0.1
Dairy Cows                                             22                            3.1
Dairy Goat                                             88                            12.5
Value Addition                                         3                             0.4
Irrigation                                             3                             0.4
Energy Saving Stoves                                  114                            16.1
Fish Pond                                              29                            4.1
Fodder Bulking                                         10                            1.4
Food Processing                                        4                             0.6
Greenhouse                                             30                            4.3
Pigs                                                   3                             0.4
Poultry                                               127                             18
Rabbit Meat Butchery                                   1                             0.1
Rabbits                                                37                            5.2
Seed Bulking                                           22                            3.1
Tree Nursery                                           85                            12.0
TOTAL                                                 706                            100
                                     Source: NRM Secretariat, June 2013

35.      Each enterprise in the list of micro-projects had technical support notes to help the
CBO officials and the service provider to understand in detail some technical aspects of
the enterprises. The notes provided detailed description on: the nature of the enterprise,
its relevance to NRM, expected benefits to be distributed within and beyond the group,
outputs to be attained within the 12 months of implementation, conditions to be met by
the applicants, technical training budget, detailed bill of quantities, schedule of activities
and signatures of CBO/PO officials.


Component 4: Project Management, M&E
Budget US$4.3 million, actual cost US$4.5 million as of Project close, 105%
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Table 2.5 Outputs from Component 4 (from the Borrower’s Completion Report)
 Category             Description                                           Remarks
 Consultancies        •   Development of NRM project MIS                    A total of 12 Consultancies were
                      •   Undertaking the 1st Environmental Audit           completed, often in conjunction with
                      •   Development of NRM Project Communication          NIB, WRMA and KFS.
                          Strategy
                      •   Preparation of National Irrigation Development
                          Strategy (with NIB)
                      •   Preparation of Irrigation Reform Implementation
                          strategy (with NIB)
                      •   Undertaking the 2nd Environmental Audit
                      •   Upgrading the NRM project Management
                          Information System (MIS)
                      •   Developing GIS and carrying out surveying &
                          mapping of NRM project activities
                      •   Carrying out final survey for NRM project
                      •   Undertaking the 3rd Environmental Audit

                                                     46
 Category        Description                                            Remarks
                 •    Preparation of the draft NRM Project Completion
                      Report (PCR)
                 • Preparation of the National Groundwater Policy
                      (with WRMA)
 Works           Upgrading and rehabilitation of 132 Rain Gauging       Implemented on behalf of WRMA.
                 Stations (RGSs)                                        The rehabilitation works were
                                                                        completed in six regions namely,
                                                                        Lake Victoria South Catchment
                                                                        region, Rift Valley Catchment region,
                                                                        Ewaso Ngiro North Catchment
                                                                        region, Tana Catchment region, Athi
                                                                        Catchment region, Lake Victoria
                                                                        North Catchment region.
 Goods           Laptops                         13                     These were procured to facilitate the
                 Tablet laptops                  5                      operation of the Project Coordination
                 Desktop computers               11                     Office (PCO) in providing managerial
                 Digital cameras                 7                      oversight and project coordination,
                 APC UPS                         11                     management, monitoring and
                 LCD Projector                   2                      evaluation.
                 Printer fax                     1
                 Vehicles (Toyota Prado,         3
                 Pajero Mitsubishi, Toyota
                 Double Cabin)
                 Duplex printers                 3
                 IMAC Apple                      1
                 IPADs                           6
                 Secretarial chairs              4
                 Executive high back chair       8
                 Internet D-link                 2
                 Coffee table                    2
                 Photocopy machine               1
                 Filling rack                    1
                 Visitors chair                  7
                 Executive desk with lockable    2
                 drawers
                 Secretarial set                 3
                 Executive visitors chair        8
                 High cabinet with glass doors   4
                 Executive desk                  1
                 Computer desk                   1
                 Secretarial desk                1
                 Bookshelf with wooden and       1
                 glass doors
                 Four drawer metal cabinet       5
                 Coat hanger                     4
                 Office reception desk           1


36.     Project management, communications, M&E and reporting functions were
performed adequately. Several studies have been undertaken through consultancies,
including: (i) the development and upgrading of the management information system
(MIS); (ii) three environmental audits; (iii) development of the communications strategy;
(iv) preparation of the National Irrigation Development Strategy and of the Irrigation
Reform Implementation Strategy; (v) development geographic information system (GIS);
(vi) surveys and mapping of NRMP activities; (vii) preparation of the National
Groundwater Policy; and (viii) preparation of the Project Completion Report. Note that

                                                 47
the water resources monitoring and policy outputs financed under Component 4 were
delivered on behalf of WRMA for Sub-component 1.1.
37.     The planned support for developing and implementing the national resettlement
policy for which a budget of US$1.6 million was allocated at appraisal was not
implemented, as it was considered to be outside MoWI or MENR responsibilities 24. In
January 2013, however, a new resettlement law was promulgated by the GoK (again,
outside NRMP) which is close in spirit and substance to the World Bank’s resettlement
policy.




24
   Land use and tenure have been contentious issues in Kenya, which is characterized by high levels of
inequality and landlessness, illegal and irregular allocation of public land, and inefficiencies and corruption
in land administration and management. These issues are particularly vexing in the 20% of land that is
arable. In 1960, as Kenya prepared for independence, seven million acres (or about half of cultivated land)
was in the hands of European settlers. A post-independence land reform program transferred land to
Africans, but did not return land to all of those who were landless or had been dispossessed. The resulting
landlessness and concentrated land ownership were exacerbated by political patronage and corruption,
especially through illegal and irregular allocation of public land. As a result, about 15 million people in
rural parts of the country are landless or own less than two acres of land. In early December 2009,
Parliament adopted a new land policy which inter alia seeks to restore the historic claims of indigenous
communities; develop new land tenure systems and laws; recognize community, indigenous and customary
land rights; and introduce land banking to ensure that the state has land for emergency services. Given the
complexity of land issues in Kenya, land reform is likely to take decades to accomplish.

                                                      48
                     Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


   1. Introduction and Objectives

1.      In 2007, the World Bank developed the NRMP with the GoK with the
objective to enhance the institutional capacity to manage water and forest resources
in a sustainable and participatory way. Overall, the project was designed to help
reducing the incidence and severity of water shocks in river catchments, improve forest
and watershed management, and improve the livelihoods of communities participating in
the co-management of water and forests. The project was designed around three
technical components including water resource management and irrigation, management
of forest resources, and livelihood investments through community-driven development
approaches. The components included aspects of capacity building, institutional reforms,
community participation and benefit sharing, and community and private sector
investments

2.     The rationale for this project was built on the linkages between the
management and development of water resources, including watershed
management, and the performance of the economy, including the incidence of
poverty. The consequences of poor management of resources and long term under-
investment in water related infrastructure and poor watershed management has resulted in
the country being critically vulnerable to water shocks of drought and flood. Recurrent
droughts and floods have consequently directly resulted in identifiable impacts on the
national economy - the largely unrecorded impacts on the poorest sections of the Kenyan
population have been devastating and have contributed to sustained and deepening
poverty in many regions in the country.

3.      This economic analysis represents an ex-post evaluation of the economic
efficiency of the project after project completion. It compares achieved economic
impact and project economic efficiency with the assumptions made about economic
impacts anticipated at design stage and analyses whether the anticipated impacts were
achieved. Insofar, it serves as a measure to evaluate how realistic ex-ante expectations
about economic efficiency and development impacts were. At design stage, financial and
economic analysis were carried out for selected project components and sub-components,
but not aggregated for the project as a whole. As this project was restructured at mid-
term, the ex-post analysis conducted here considered the entire project, but will compare
with the ex-ante results (see Section 6, Conclusion.).

4.      The economic assessment of project impacts needs to be embedded into a
brief discussion of the economic development and environmental change that has
taken place in the country at macro-scale during project implementation. In
addition to comparing the ex-post results with the ex-ante efficiency calculations, this
will allow for a much more thorough interpretation of results, especially differentiating
between with and without project developments.            It will also support the



                                           49
contextualization of the analysis providing input into the selection and justification of
analytical parameters used for the economic efficiency calculations.

   2. Environmental and Economic Context

   2.1. Environment

5.      At the time of project preparation, Kenya’s natural resource base was
assessed to be under threat from natural disasters and mismanagement, despite its
critical role for the Kenyan economy and for the well-being of all Kenyans. For
example, water shocks resulted in an estimated decline of 11%, 16%, and 16% of GDP
respectively during the three consecutive years of floods (1997-98) and droughts (1998-
2000). The PAD stated that Kenya constituted one of the most degraded areas in the
region with about 70% of the population living in the 12% of total land area (581,679
km2) that is classified as being of medium to high potential for agriculture and livestock
production. The growing population and the resulting increase in demand for land, energy
and water is putting tremendous pressure on the natural resource base.

6.        Since then, environmental challenges have diversified and new dimensions,
especially climate change, have started to show impact at the macro-level. For a
recently approved Water Security and Climate Resilience project it was analyzed that
high inter-annual and intra-annual rainfall variability result in frequent droughts and
floods, so severe that years of infrastructure investments for economic growth can be
undone in a single extreme event. A recently completed Post-Disaster Needs Assessment
estimated that the overall effects of the 2008-11 drought cost the economy US$12.1
billion, which includes US$ 805.6 million for destruction of physical and durable assets
and US$11.3 billion for losses in economic flows across all sectors. According to the
Pilot Program for Climate Resilience Climate Variability Index, Kenya has a history of
greater disaster risk – particularly droughts and floods – than the majority of sub-Saharan
African countries, at least when assessed over the past 30 years.7 6. Climate variability
and hydro-climatic shocks (droughts and floods) impact the poor disproportionately. It is
estimated that about 50.6% of the population lacks access to adequate food and, even the
little it has is of poor nutritional quality. The incidence and prevalence of food insecurity
is more extreme in ASALs. This is largely due to the regular recurrence of droughts and
floods that have repeatedly led to massive crop/livestock failure and, in the worst cases,
to severe famine.

7.      To date, Kenya has limited freshwater endowments and is already classified
as a chronically ‘water scarce’ country in absolute and relative terms. The mere 526
m3 per capita annual freshwater availability places it in the bottom 8% of countries
globally. Over 80% of the country is comprised of arid or semi-arid lands (ASALs). A
further complicating factor is that approximately 54% of Kenya’s water resources are
shared with neighboring countries. There is growing competition (and even conflict) over
limited water resources, with rising population, economic growth, and urbanization
placing increasing pressures on the water resource base. Severe degradation, primarily
caused by deforestation and unsuitable agricultural practices, of the country’s key water

                                             50
catchment areas (known as “water towers”) has exacerbated this situation. At the
subnational level, the spatial mismatch between water availability and rising demands is
in many cases even more extreme; a 2012 World Bank study found that areas around the
major cities of Nairobi, Mombasa, and some western centers are the most critically water
stressed and this is projected to worsen by 2030. Yet newly discovered groundwater
resources, if able to be developed economically, could be a game changer.

8.      Against this very brief summary of the development of the state of the
environment during project implementation, the importance that project
achievements need to be evaluated in a “with and without project” situation – as
required by standard economic analysis –becomes evident (compare also Section 4
of this annex). The analysis underlines that even though the current situation regarding
water management Kenya has probably become more severe in Kenya as a whole, the
without project situation – especially in the targeted project areas – is likely to be even
worse. Therefore, the achievements of the project are the incremental improvements
compared to a deteriorating “without” situation.

    2.2. Economic

9.      Kenya has experienced varied and unequal growth since independence in
1963. In its early years of independence, Kenya was the most prosperous country in East
Africa, its GDP per capita rising by 38% between 1960 and 1980. The following two
decades to 2000, however, recorded a zero increase in per capita GDP, while per capita
income in 2003, at US$360, was lower than in 1990. At project preparation, the poverty
rate in Kenya was 52%. Kenya’s social indicators had declined in tandem with the
economy; infant mortality rose from 64 (per 1,000 births) in 1990 to 79 in 2004. Life
expectancy declined from 58 in 1990 to 48 years in 2004, in part due to the HIV/AIDS
epidemic. The persisting hunger of children is evidenced in the 20% of under-fives who
are underweight, and almost one in three (31%) who are wasting (World Development
Indicators, 2006). These are averages, but Kenya is a highly unequal society, with
exclusion reflecting stratification by class, gender, and region. Kenya’s Gini coefficient
for household income, at 0.43, is much higher than that of its neighbors, Ethiopia and
Tanzania, whose coefficients stand at 0.30 and 0.35 respectively. This ranked Kenya as
one of the more unequal countries in the world and in Sub-Saharan Africa.

Table 3.1: Selected Socio-economic indicators pre and post project

        Socio-economic Indicator                            2007*                       2011*
 GDP (billion US$)                                        13.0 (2001)                    33.6
 GNI per capita (US$)                                         480                        820
 GDP growth (%)                                         4.5% (2001-11)                  4.4%
 Poverty rate (%)                                         45.9 (2005)                    46%
 Population (million people)                                 35.1                        41.6
 Life expectancy (years)                                       57                         60
 Literacy rate (%)                                        72% (2009)                  87% (2013)
 Infant mortality (per 1000 live births)                       57                         50
 Sources: Kenya at a glance 2013 (2011 data); WDI database; *if not otherwise stated in parenthesis

                                                   51
10.     At present, Kenya’s economy continues to stabilize gradually, but it still
remains vulnerable to internal and external shocks. Kenya’s economy is still
operating below its potential. However, given the domestic and global environment, the
growth rate of 4.6 percent achieved in 2012 is considered satisfactory and Kenya’s
poverty level is estimated to have declined from 47% in 2005. This will be confirmed by
the new household survey. After a peaceful election and transition in 2013, growth is
projected to rise to 5.7% in 2013 and 6.0% in 2014, supported by lower interest rates and
higher investment growth.

11.      According to the most recent Kenya Economic Update, the macroeconomic
conditions in the country are favorable. The economy projected growth for 2013 was
5.0% and 5.1% in 2014. Inflation remains low, the fiscal deficit remains manageable, and
the exchange rate remains stable. The government has maintained fiscal discipline,
adopting domestic revenue-raising measures. However, execution of the budget,
especially investment spending, leaves room for improvement. Higher execution rates
would help promote the much sought after growth take-off. Small and medium-size
enterprises (SMEs) cite the cost of credit as a barrier to bank financing. High lending
rates can be traced to a range of factors, including the macroeconomic environment, high
bank overheads and profits, information gaps, the structure of the banking sector, and the
volatility of the risk-free return. A multipronged approach is needed to increase bank
lending to this critical sector if growth and job creation are to take-off.

12.     The summary of the progress made on many key development indicators at
macro-level during project implementation, emphasizes that the attribution of
economic development achievements needs to be done with care. Consequently, this
economic analysis only includes the most immediate and direct impacts generated by the
project as they were identified with the project components during project development
and implementation. Secondary economic benefits are only qualitatively discussed.

   3. Economic Benefits generated by the Project

   3.1.Overview

13.     With its different components and multiple areas of investments, the NRM
project generated a diverse portfolio of economic benefits ranging from direct,
tangible benefits to indirect, intangible benefits. A direct, tangible benefit is, for
example, the increase in wood production through agroforestry systems in the targeted
project areas or the reduction of GHG emissions through sequestration of carbon. On the
other side of the scale, indirect and intangible economic benefits of the project are, for
example, improved schooling results of children triggered by a reduction in indoor air
pollution (IAP) resulting from a provision of cleaner cooking solutions or the
improvement of the public administration and the associated delivery of public services
triggered by the capacity building of the forest administration supported by the project.
Table 3.2 provides a limited overview of selected examples of the four categories of
benefits that can be associated with the project.

                                           52
14.     Given the difficulties of assigning monetary benefits to the entire range of
economic benefits generated by the project, only a few selected economic benefits
are included in the quantitative ex-post economic assessment of project feasibility.
These are a) Increase government revenues from improved water use charges collection,
b) irrigation and associated yield increases in agriculture, c) economic development of
local communities through CDD approaches, d) improved watershed management, and e)
economic benefits related to GHG emission reductions either through avoiding emissions
or by carbon sequestration.

Table 3.2: Non-exhaustive selection of economic benefits generated by the project

                         Tangible                                      Intangible
  Direct  • Improved irrigation and agricultural   •   Reduction in soil erosion
            yields                                 •   Reduction in deforestation
          • Improved watershed services (e.g.      •   Afforestation / reforestation
            for drinking water, hydropower         •   Increase of trees in the agricultural landscape
            generation, etc.)                      •   Biodiversity conservation
          • Reduced of fuelwood use and            •   Reduction in GHG emissions
            reduction of smoke in kitchen
          • Increase in qualified jobs
 Indirect • Reduced respiratory and other indoor   • Strengthened self-governance capacity of
            air pollution (IAP) related diseases     communities and community groups
          • Reduced pressure on protected areas    • Enhancing institutional mechanisms in support
          • Reduced malnutrition                     of decentralization and delivery of public
          • Better access to credit                  services
          • Increased resilience to external       • Improved efficiency of forest product value
            shocks                                   chains
          • Reduction of malaria and other water   • Lowering marketing costs
            borne diseases                         • Improved schooling and education
                                                   • Improved access to health services


15.     As stated under Section 2.2 above, the selected benefits included in the
quantitative economic analysis are those that can be directly and most immediately
associated with the project implementation. While this especially applies for the
economic development impacts, it is also a criterion for the environmental impact
selected for this analysis. This approach ensures that the results of the economic analysis
and quantitative simulation are robust and credible, and that they stay strictly within
project boundaries.

   3.2. Quantification of selected project benefits

16.     The results framework of the project included measuring improved
collection of water use charges. By December 2012 the improved water charge
collection had already amounted to a total of KSH 347.5 million or an increment of KSH
80.5 million compared to the baseline at the start of the project. It is assumed that
without the project, water charge collection would remain at the same level as at the


                                              53
beginning of the project, hence, the increase in water charge collection is assumed as the
increment between the with and without project scenario.

17.     One of the greatest impacts of the rehabilitated and newly constructed
irrigation infrastructure is an increase in agricultural yields. Data collected in the
project area indicates an average increase of about 20%. The incremental benefit of the
project between the “with and without” situation is calculated by multiplying this
incremental increase with revenues net of labor costs. A linear increase in agricultural
area has been assumed over the 5 year project period of about 1900 ha/a, with a total of
9500 ha rehabilitated and newly constructed irrigation area.

18.     The project supported a large number of CDD activities and only a few
selected activities are considered for this quantitative economic analysis (see Section
7 below for a detailed description of a wide range of CDD micro-projects). In total, 25
different types of enterprises and 706 micro-enterprises were funded at the community
level. The activities included brick making, bee keeping, dairy production (cows and
goats), fish farming, food processing, greenhouses, efficient cookstove stove production
and purchase, and many other activities. The quantification considered examples of
livestock farming and the associated revenues from milk and yoghurt production and sale,
fuel wood savings in schools (incl. one school where a biogas digester was constructed),
one fish farming example, and tree nurseries. As only a few examples out of the full
range of CDD activities are considered, the quantified economic benefits underestimate
total economic benefits from this project component by a large amount.

Figure 3.1.: Distribution of quantified project benefits




                                            54
19.     With the emphasis of the project to improve watershed management in and
around Kenya’s water towers, watershed management benefits are of outmost
importance. To approximate the monetary value, only the forest area brought under
management plans was considered as reliable numbers exist that were reported in the
project’s results framework. Building on Pearce (2001) 25 who estimated watershed
values of US$10 per hectares, this value was also assumed for the determination of the
economic value in this analysis. Given that no inflation adjustment was carried out and
that only the forest area was considered – and not the entire watershed area – provides for
a very conservative assessment of watershed benefits contributing to the robustness of the
simulation results presented below.

20.    As the project was also successful in supporting improvements in
management of existing forests (i.e. by reducing deforestation and forest
degradation, and stimulated reforestation and afforestation), the reduction of
carbon emission is an important economic benefit generated by the project. A
sequestration benefit of 0.5 tCO2e/ha/a was assumed for improved natural forest
management, which represents a very conservative assessment. Further, this technical
assessment of avoided emissions was monetized assuming a carbon price of US$1 / tCO2,
which is very low as some studies suggest social carbon prices exceeding US$50 or even
70 tCO2. For the sequestration for carbon through afforestation and reforestation, a
sequestration assessment of 5 tCO2e/ha was assumed, which is also considered
conservative. The same carbon value of US$1 / tCO2e was applied.

21.     Looking only at the quantified economic benefits generated by the project,
improved agricultural yields takes up the largest share, which corresponds well with
the overall project objective (see also Figure 3.1). Second is improved watershed
benefits, followed by increased government revenues. Interestingly, carbon benefits only
make up a minor share of the economic project benefits with a total of 2.1%. As the
small share of economic benefits associated with CDD activities does not reflect the full
range of benefits generated by the many micro-style activities, it puts an emphasis on the
fact that in future projects there may be a need to better monitor economic impact
achieved by these components.

     4. Methodology chosen for the Economic Analysis

22.     Cost-Benefit-Analysis was applied to conduct the economic efficiency
assessment for this project. Sensitivity analysis is applied for the main simulation
parameters notably discount rate, carbon price, and watershed benefit increments. For
the discount rate, alternative rates of 2%, 5%, 10%, and 20% are applied. To test the




25
  Pearce, D.W. 2001. “The Economic Value of Forest Ecosystems.” Ecosystem Health 7
(4) (2001), pp. 284–296.


                                            55
robustness of initial results, agricultural yields, watershed benefits, and carbon benefits
are reduced by 50% in subsequent analysis. First, these reductions are executed
separately to test the individual impact of these benefit components on overall results. In
a last step, these reductions are combined. All sensitivity analyses are run for all four
discount rates scenarios. The results of the quantitative results will be complemented
with qualitative benefits to conclude overall project feasibility.

23.     As required for economic analysis of projects, a With and Without project
situation is used for estimating incremental benefits generated by the project 26 .
Taking account of the current situation, and the fact that the environmental as well as
livelihood situation in the project areas is likely to continue to decline, even a slowing but
continuation of an already negative trend represents a project benefit. For example, a
slowing but continuation of deforestation and forest degradation trend is a benefit that
can be quantified by the amount of incremental carbon that is not emitted into the
atmosphere compared to the without project situation. Likewise, if household incomes
can remain stable under a with project situation compared to a possible negative trend
due to declining agricultural productivity, deforestation, climate change, and other
possible impact factors, this also represents an incremental benefit achieved by the
project. Net Present Value (NPV) and Benefit-Cost Ratio (B/C-Ratio) are used as criteria
to assess the economic feasibility of the project. Economic Rates of return (ERR) are
also stated, although they can already be approximated based on the sensitivity analysis
applying varying discount rates.

24.     A 15 year period is assumed to assess the economic feasibility of the project.
While project costs are only assumed for the project implementation period according to
the actual disbursements as reported in project documentation, benefits are assumed to be
generated beyond the lifetime of the project. However, it is assumed that there are no
further incremental changes of project generated benefits beyond the immediate project
implementation period. This is a rather conservative assessment as it is likely that some
of the momentum created by the project, for example as regards CDD and watershed
management, will continue to increase after project implementation with increasing
increments compared to a “without” project situation. To harmonize project benefits and
costs through the calculation of a present value of costs and benefits, a discount rate
needs to be determined as describe above.

     5. Simulations and Results

25.     It is important to consider the flows of project benefits and costs over the
project and simulation period as it supports the interpretation of results. As
depicted in Figure 3.2, projects costs have been fluctuating quite significantly during
project implementation as there were times of low disbursement rates that picked up in


26
    For a more detailed discussion of the “with and without” principle in project analysis and evaluation, please refer to
(a) Gittinger, J.P. (1984): Economic Analysis of Agricultural Projects, The World Bank pages 41-43 and (b) Belli, P. et
al. (2001): Economic Analysis of Investment Operations, The World Bank Institute, The World Bank, pages 17-24.


                                                           56
subsequent years. This fluctuation of project costs translates into a fluctuating net benefit
stream, which will cause varying results under changing discount rates as future benefits
and costs will be weighted differently in present values. Flows of project benefits,
including all benefit reduction variations assumed in simulation are presented in Table
3.3.

Table 3.3: Flows of project benefits, including all benefit reduction variations assumed in
              simulation (in US$ million)
                                           Year
                                           2008 2009 2010 2011       2012   2013 2014 (…) 2022
 Total project benefits (TPB; baseline):   2.25 3.11 4.71 5.53       7.11   7.85 8.36 (…) 8.36
       TPB reduced agricultural yields:    1.87 2.36 3.57 4.02       5.21   5.96 6.47 (…) 6.47
               TPB reduced watershed:      1.54 2.36 3.71 4.53       6.01   6.60 6.86 (…) 6.86
                  TPB reduced carbon:      2.21 3.07 4.65 5.47       7.04   7.77 8.28 (…) 8.28
         TPB all reductions combined:      1.12 1.56 2.51 2.96       4.04   4.63 4.89 (…) 4.89

26.    The simulations yield positive results for almost all of the scenarios for the
baseline assumptions. Only the 20% discount rate simulation results in a negative NPV
and below one B/C-Ratio. As the NPV is only slightly below zero, it already indicates an
ERR close to 20%, which is mathematically confirmed at 16.7%. Simulation results are
summarized in Table X.4, including all sensitivity scenarios.


Figure 3.2.: Flows of selected project benefits and project costs (in US$ million)




                                              57
    27.     Reducing some of benefits by 50% in the simulation underlines the economic
    robustness of the project. Results are positive for most situations, except at 20%
    discount rates and for agricultural yields, where only 2% and 5% discount rates yield
    positive results. Accordingly, combining all reductions simultaneously, i.e. reducing
    agricultural, watershed, and carbon benefits by 50% at the same time, yields negative
    results in all cases. As the ERR is calculated at 1.7% only very low discount rates would
    yield positive results. The ERR for the other 3 scenarios are 8.5%, 10.1%, and 16.3%
    respectively (see also Table 3.4).

    Table 3.4: Summary of simulation results (NPV stated in US$ million)

                           Baseline       Scenario 1       Scenario 2      Scenario 3       Scenario 4
Discount Rate           NPV BCR         NPV BCR          NPV BCR          NPV BCR           NPV BCR
                  2%    37.14 1.72      16.45 1.32       20.88 1.40       36.21 0.95        -0.73 0.55
                  5%    23.15 1.50       6.94 1.15       10.36 1.22       22.42 0.96        -6.58 0.55
                 10%     9.09 1.23      -2.17 0.94        0.13 1.00        8.57 0.93       -11.64 0.53
                 20%    -2.35 0.92      -8.53 0.70       -7.40 0.74       -2.64 0.91       -13.87 0.51
                         ERR: 16.7%      ERR: 8.5%        ERR: 10.1%       ERR: 16.3%        ERR: 1.7%
                     NPV = Net Present Value; BCR = Benefit-Cost-Ratio; ERR = Economic Rate of Return
                                                         Scenario 1: Reduced agricultural benefit (50%)
                                                          Scenario 2: Reduced watershed benefits (50%)
                                                             Scenario 3: Reduced carbon benefits (50%)
                                                                 Scenario 4: All benefits reduced (50%)



    28.      Overall, it is judged that the results demonstrate the robustness of the
    analysis and confirm the positive economic impact generated by the project. As
    initial assessments for project benefits were already done in a conservative manner and
    the fact that a reduction of benefits by 50% reflects a rather unusual scenario – but still
    yields positive results in many situations – confirms the assumptions of positive
    economic results that would be achieved at project design stage. Given that many
    economic benefits are excluded, possible true economic returns are assumed to be well
    above 25% or even 30%, if not more.

    29.     To further test the robustness of the economic impacts of the project,
    simulations were run for a period reflecting only the duration of project duration.
    The results of this simulation are presented in Table 3.5. At the baseline scenario the
    simulation yields only negative results across all scenarios, i.e. at all discount rates. As a
    next step, it was tested what increases of individual benefits was required to achieve a
    break-even of project benefits and costs (NPV zero and B/C ratio of one) and whether
    these benefit increases are reasonable. This was done for three benefit categories: (a)
    Yield increases in agriculture, (b) watershed management benefits and (c) carbon benefits.

    Table 3.5: NPVs analyzing necessary benefit increases to achieve break-even point at
                 varying discount rates for project implementation period (in US$ million)

                                                   58
                                    Agricultural yield         Watershed benefits   Carbon benefits
                                         Multiplier                 US$/ha/a            US$/tCO2e
 Discount Rate                        2.7          2.8           30          32        38       40
                             2%      0.20         1.59          -1.94       0.21      0.18     1.45
                             5%      -0.23        1.00          -1.88       0.05     -0.01     1.13
                            10%      -0.75        0.27          -1.77      -0.13     -0.23     0.74
                            20%      -1.32       -0.59          -1.52      -0.31     -0.44     0.27

30.    Yield benefits from agriculture need to increase by a factor of 2.8 in order to
achieve a break-even of the project costs and benefits. This can be achieved either as
yield increases or price increases received for agricultural production – or any
combination thereof, which is probably the most realistic scenario. Given current food
price developments, it can be assumed that opportunity costs of agricultural production
will increase in the future, not least also because of the rapidly growing urban
populations demanding increasing amounts of staple foods.

31.    Watershed benefits and carbon sequestration benefit increases needed to
achieve break-even of project costs and benefits are also within reasonable ranges.
For watershed benefits, values of US$30/ha/annum yield positive results for all discount
rates. Considering the 15-year simulation period yields ERR in excess of 80%. For
carbon benefits, assuming a social value of carbon at US$40 per tCO2e results indicates a
break-even of project benefits and costs. For the 15-year simulation period, carbon prices
of US$36 per tCO2e yield an ERR in excess of 80%. Given that Pearce (2001) states
watershed values ranging between US$15 to US$850 per hectare per year, the significant
increase simulated here seems to be still justifiable, especially if benefits beyond the
immediate project boundaries are taken account of.

32.     For carbon benefits, and despite the currently low carbon market prices, it
has to be acknowledged that estimations applied here should reflect the social cost of
carbon – that is how much economic damage each extra ton of carbon dioxide
delivers. There are a number of ways which economists try and arrive at their estimates,
using different modeling techniques 27. In the context of this debate, a US$5 per ton figure
is very low. For example, the United States Government puts the figure at around US$32,
while other studies give a range between US$15 and US$74. Pearce (2001) even states
monetary values of climate benefits of tropical forests ranging between US$360 and
US$2200 per hectare per year.

      6. Conclusion

33.   This ex-post economic efficiency analysis conducted for the Kenya Natural
Resources Management project confirms the positive economic impact the project
was expected to generate. The results of the quantitative simulations are also robust


27
     See, for example, the Yale Forum on Climate Change



                                                          59
across a range of sensitivity analyses assuming significant changes in discount rates and
key simulation parameters, notably agricultural yield, watershed benefits, and carbon
benefits. Throughout the analysis, it was emphasized that benefit assumption were
always done conservatively using lower-bound values, especially as regards non-market
benefits such as watershed and carbon benefits.

34.     The quantitative analysis was also strictly limited to values that can be
clearly attributed to the project. In addition, for example, for economic benefits
arising from the project investments in CDD activities, only a few of those activities were
included where reliable data was available. Further, it was assumed that benefits would
not further change beyond the project implementation period, even though it is likely that
positive effects will continue to generate positive incremental changes compared to the
without project situation. While this approach systematically undervalues project
impacts, it provides a high degree of robustness. If additional and downstream project
benefits had been considered the simulations would have yielded even stronger results.

35.     Analyzing the project impacts in the broader context of economic
development and environmental change that took place in Kenya during project
implementation implies that the project piloted and catalyzed important
development momentum for the sustainable management of natural resources.
With increasing pressure on natural resources and growing ecosystem stress through
climate change, the project investments and associated achievements are highly relevant
in today’s context. With growing urban populations and increasing demand for water,
safeguarding Kenya’s water towers through sustainable management of watersheds and
forest resources is a paramount ingredient to the country’s development ambitions.
Against increasing global food prices and increasing domestic demand for food,
rehabilitating and extending irrigation infrastructure is a vital measure to enhance food
security and support economic development, especially in rural areas.

36.     The provision of additional livelihood opportunities in rural areas through
CDD approaches as facilitated by the project is likely to yield important secondary
effects that were not explicitly considered in the analysis. Improved incomes often
allow improved access to education and health services. The project also reported
positive impacts on malaria control through improved irrigation infrastructure that
eliminates breeding grounds of mosquitos. Higher life expectancy, improved income
opportunities for future generations, increased capacities to manage farms and contribute
to economic development are only few of a wide range of possible secondary and tertiary
economic effects generated by the project. One important aspect of the project,
especially the CDD investments, relate to the self-organization of rural communities and
interest groups that are expected to play increasing roles for facilitating locally-controlled
investments and economic development at large.

37.    Probably one of the most important but so far unstated economic impacts of
the project relate to the capacity building of government institutions at central and
decentralized levels. Enhanced capacities of government institutions will be improving
public service delivery with numerous benefits and positive economic impacts.

                                             60
Especially with the continuing challenges of natural resources management – not least
due to climate change – the aspect of enhanced functioning of public institutions cannot
be underestimated, particularly in a “with” and “without” project scenario. Enhanced
functioning of government institutions will also facilitate the implementation of future
projects and investments that will be built on and continue the achievements of this
project. Similar considerations apply to knowledge generation and management achieved
by the project.

38.      This ex-post economic assessment confirms the anticipated economic impacts
envisaged during project design. The ex-ante economic evaluation of the different
NRM Project interventions, such as sustainable land management, reforestation,
irrigation, and CDD micro-projects, indicated that most activities are likely to be
profitable from the beneficiary and project perspective. In many cases, the off-site effects
add significantly to economic viability from the society’s perspective. The results of the
analysis have some important implications for the design and implementation of the
NRM Project

39.     In summary, based on this economic evaluation, it is concluded that the
project as resulted in significant positive development impacts. The consideration of
only a few of those benefits into the quantitative analysis sufficed to yield positive
economic results. The achieved economic benefits comply largely with what was
anticipated during the design stage of the project. This supports the design and
implementation of the project, in particular the selection of activities in which the project
invested. It demonstrates that investments in sustainable natural resource management
contribute significantly to the economic development ambitious of countries such as
Kenya as they generate and safeguard important direct environmental services and
instigate economic development in rural areas where income opportunities remain sparse.


7.     Appendix: Assessment of CDD Livelihood subprojects
40.     Livelihood schemes involved an investment of approximately US$13 million
under Components 2 (Implemented by KFS) and 3 (Implemented by WRMA).
These schemes have managed to realize direct and tangible impacts for communities in
forests and sensitive catchments, reaching over 130,000 direct and indirect beneficiaries
which is broken down as follows: Component 2 included 1,700 indigenous households in
forest zones which resulted in an estimated 10,000 indirect beneficiaries. Component 3
reached a total of nearly 120,000 members of CBOs who were mobilized and trained in
subproject management. Of these, 3332 sub-project proposals were received from 713
CBOs, and 706 micro-projects were financed by NRMP. These micro-projects supported
livelihoods for 4,145 direct beneficiaries, and nearly 25,000 when including household
members. While it is too early to assess impacts in terms of improvements in the people’s
livelihoods and income, indications are that if the current momentum and enthusiasm
among beneficiaries are sustained, their income will continue to improve among
beneficiaries and surrounding households that are following and replicating the
successful examples introduced and validated by the CDD schemes.


                                             61
41.      Some of the positive impacts include: (i) improved family income through the
sale of products such as milk, greenhouse production of vegetables, eggs, poultry, etc.;
(ii) other community groups are now looking forward to realizing benefits from their
activities: tea, coffee, improved breeds of local cows and sheep, orchards and other high
value trees among others; (iii) training on governance, procurement and technical skills
related to specific micro-project activities, and other activities improving their abilities to
organize themselves as groups to better manage their interests and future. Groups are now
more involved and participated fully in the NRMP management and safeguard activities.
In addition, improved relationships between the WRMA, NIB, KFS and the different
CBOs is leading to better conservation of the resource base, and to the awareness that
with dialogue, consultations, communication and openness, both the line agencies and the
CBOs can be better prepared to provide win-win situations benefiting all stakeholders.
Some typical livestock schemes
42.      From the 706 CDD schemes financed 340 (48%) aimed developing livestock
production. Services provided included support for production (extension, marketing,
value addition and agribusiness) and veterinary services (disease and vector control,
artificial insemination, etc.). Production support contributed in meeting NRM objectives
and those on livelihoods enhancement including: food production, income generation,
social integration, source of raw materials, and mobilization of CBOs, technical service
provision, and capacity building activities. The livestock schemes included dairy cows
and goats, poultry farming, bee farming, pig farming, and fodder production.
43.     The Mwiteithia Dairy Cow Self Help Group (SHG) located in Kangaitha,
Kirinyaga County invested in dairy cows for producing milk. Originally 68 members (38
women and 30 men) applied for funding, but as the scheme succeeded members
increased to 238 (58 women and 180 men, of which 42% are youth) expanding the
activity. The initial investment was Ksh 983,000 for buying five improved breed dairy
cows and for construction of a shelter and hay store. All cows calved, but one died at
birth, and the 2 bulls and 2 heifers were sold to group members at the age of 3 months.
About 55 liters of milk are produced daily of which 35 are sold to the local processing
plant and 20 liters used for making yogurt which is sold locally. Between July 2012 and
April 2013, milk provided Ksh 324,788 and yoghurt Ksh.55,285. Costs included Ksh
349,657 for feed, labor Ksh 90,200, and equipment (buckets, water tank, deep freezers,
silage, chaff cutter).




Zero grazing unit                         Freezer for yogurt            Prepared Cow feed


                                              62
44.     The group members received training sessions from the Livestock Development
officer covering husbandry practices and yoghurt production. They are now also entering
into individual dairy farming and using the cow manure for improved cropping. They no
longer need to rely on forest products and resources for their survival. The group realized
a net profit of Ksh 30,216 and contributed with Ksh 695,000 to procure additional dairy
cows and constructing new cow sheds and hay stores. They increased their revolving
fund from Ksh 100,000 to Ksh 220,000 giving members the opportunity to borrow for
their individual small farming or other enterprise activities.
45.     The Kacebu Mwangaza SHG (Poultry-Layers) located in Nyeri County started in
2004 with 41 members (28 Males and 13 Females). They raised funds through the merry-
go-round saving concept and started table banking for members as the first major activity.
Later they went to poultry rearing for income generation. They invested Ksh 570,000 in
constructing a poultry shed and bought 500 layers. So far they sold over 700 trays of
eggs generating Ksh 200,000. Poultry manure is used in their farms to improve vegetable
crops. They also got knowledge on environment management, and are sensitizing other
groups. They learnt many other useful lessons including the importance of locating the
shared project in a neutral ground; the importance of economies of scale and also of
record keeping for proper managing the business. They are using some of the generated
profits to expand their activity. The major challenges felt were the lack of knowledge on
leadership, management and group dynamics; and lack of funds to expand their project.




                                                                    Eggs being prepared
Poultry house with water tank      CBO Layers stock                 for the market
46.     The Nyakiambi Women SHG (Beekeeping) is located in Kinyaga, Kirinyaga
County and started in 1994 with 47 women aiming to assist each other through merry go
round. The group was formed for working together to mitigate poverty by improving the
roof of their houses, generating earnings for paying school fees for their children, buying
beddings, utensils, chicken and goats. Later they started an income generating activity
and evolve to beekeeping. They invested Ksh 730,760 for purchasing 60 beehives, and
harvesting and processing equipment including a honey extractor machine. They started
harvesting, packing and selling honey jars in different sizes selling at Ksh 700/lt. So far
they have done four harvests totaling 105 Kgs of honey increasing their income by Ksh
73,500. The Kinyaga community, as in many other places, proved that women are good
managers of modern environmental friendly beekeeping. Due to good results membership
increased to 126 (3 males and 123 females) owning 14 beehives. The group is active,
cohesive and visional, and is having other plans (e.g. buying of plastic tanks and maize

                                            63
farming for members). The NRM team provided support by training the management
committee on financial, governance, monitoring, book keeping and procurement aspects.




                                                                   Processed and Branded Honey
Fenced apiary with 60 beehives   Colonized Longs troth bee hives   ready for market

47.     Environment has been improved from fencing the apiary, tree planting and other
measures aiming to improve pollination. Members are planting sunflower in their farms
for bees to collect nectar, and as a byproduct they produce cooking oil and feed for their
chicken which results in more eggs, manure and money from sale of more birds. Families
have improved their diet and also have better access to education. The SHG hives have
consolidated the group improving their income and becoming a model for other members
of the community who are gaining interest in bee keeping and doing business themselves.
48.     Ragati Riverline SHG Artificial Insemination (AI) is located in Ragati, Nyeri
County and was founded in 2004. Before 2012, the CBO was collecting milk from
members and transporting it to a local enterprise who forwarded it to the new K.C.C
factory at Kiganjo. At the time membership was 150 and milk collected 10,000 liters.
Transport was done by bicycle and members had little knowledge in dairy cow rearing
and most of them could not afford buying feeds on a cash basis. Farmers sold their milk
to local brokers and hotels and at times the middlemen would not pay them at all. The
first major group activity was to mobilize neighbors for milk collection and 30 members
came together taking milk to Kiganjo KCC. NRMP funding enabled them to buy an AI
kit complete with motorbike. About 200 cows are already served and new services are
now more accessible to members: 7 milk shades and an office were added, improved
semen and animal feed is available on credit from the group stores; 20,000 liters of milk
are moved every month, members have enough milk for domestic use and for selling,
members are trained on animal husbandly, and employment opportunities were created.
49.      Kimorori Adult Education SHG (Dairy Goats) is located in Makuyu, Murang’a
County an area with scarcity of land where members cannot engage in agricultural
activities as source of their livelihood. The group included 20 adult students (17 women,
3 men) who continue to function as an environmentally fervent group where all members
are committed and attend class every afternoon. They invested Ksh.244, 000 and received
10 training sessions covering lessons on goats’ husbandry practices. Other community
members visit the project for learning and some are buying goat kids and bringing their
goats to be served by the group buck. Members are changing their focus into dairy goats’
farming and using the manure in growing crops for self-consumption or for marketing.



                                              64
Housing unit         Goat offspring
50.      The SHG constructed a goat house and procured a breeding stock of 5 does and 1
buck. To-date 19 kids have been sired, 14 does were given out to 14 members and 5
small bucks were sold. Milk is shared among members. Does produce an average of 1
liter per day and distributed among members or sold locally. They also sold one lorry of
manure. The improved buck generates additional income by charging for service Ksh.50
to members and Ksh.100 to non-members. The activity is being expanded at the
individual member level as they receive the born kids. So far they have 2 mature does
that were given to 2 members who in return give a kid back to the group. Total profit
from milk, sale of bucks and manure is Ksh 31,000. The leaders are respected by the
community, relationships with members are stronger as they are trained and work
together to feed and manage the goats.
Some typical agricultural production schemes
51.     A total of 61 CBOs were funded for agricultural production activities (9% of all
projects funded) being supported by the MoA. They included: vegetable production in
greenhouse, seed bulking (Irish potatoes and sweet potatoes), energy saving stoves and
value addition of food crops. MoA contributed to NRMP objectives improving
livelihoods of the SHG in several ways including the promotion of soil and water
conservation, river bank protection, farm layout and planning, agro forestry, enforcement
of the 10% tree cover in farms, enhancing food production and income generation,
production of raw materials for local industries, providing technical services, sensitizing
and mobilizing eligible groups, offering technical support to CBOs and the NRM
Secretariat, linking CBOs with relevant stakeholders and capacity building activities.
52.     The Kaewa Secondary Day School (Green House-Tomatoes) is located in Yatta
Sub-County, Machakos County and invested Ksh 483,100 on a greenhouse to grow
tomatoes. It is an area where water is scarce and growing tomatoes in greenhouse is a
new activity for the community. The crop did so well that one fruit could weighup to half
a kg and many were thinking magic was being applied to get such products. The School
project committee has been trained in greenhouse management and crop husbandry
practices by the service provider. About Ksh 28,000 of the profits has been saved by the
School and used to sponsor 5 orphan students by paying school fees. The scheme gave
hope to vulnerable groups and has become a resource center, and many community
members are willing to start similar projects in their homesteads. Several schools have
also visited the scheme to learn more about greenhouse farming in an arid environment.




                                            65
Functional Green house           CBO chair monitoring the      Mature and ripe tomatoes
                                 maturing tomato crop          ready for the market
53.      The Gakoe Ushindi SHG Processing Juices members from Gakoe, Kiambu
County grow passion fruits and pineapples. They invested Ksh 436,700 for processing
and packaging passion and pineapple juices. The SHG processing enterprise was
certified by the Ministry of Health (MoH) and the Kenya Bureau of Standards (KBS),
and has generated many benefits to members and their community including: income
increases and economic development by the sale of juices, generating employment
opportunities, increasing acreage of passion and pineapple plantations, and offering
internships opportunities to students pursuing agro-based studies. The plans are to
advance with the production of about 10 types of juices, procure necessary export license,
install cold storage facilities, and purchase land to relocate the factory and develop it.




CBO member handling         Bottled Juice at the store
packaging materials         ready for the market          CBO brand name “HALISI”

Some improved energy saving stove schemes
54.     In total 114 institutions (primary and secondary schools) were funded for
improved energy saving stoves using 16% of all projects funded. The schemes were
promoted and technically supported by the MoA and community experts trained by GIZ.
The improved energy saving stoves made a huge contribution for meeting NRMP
objectives and improving the livelihoods of the schools communities in several ways.
Three schemes are described below as group representative case studies.
55.     The Kagio Secondary School is located in Kagio, Kirinyaga County and has a
population of about 400 students. The improved energy efficient stoves had a cost of Ksh
246,000, the school contributing with 10 percent. In addition, the school took a loan for
Ksh.1.6 million to construct a spacious new kitchen where the improved stoves were
installed, one with 250 liter and the other with 200 liter capacity. The kitchen staff and

                                            66
other school members received six training sessions from the MoA Home Economics
Department on the importance of proper O&M of the stoves from start-up. Parents,
neighboring other schools and community members have been visiting the scheme for
learning about the new technology for saving energy and related costs.
56.     Before the scheme they consumed 16 Lorries (112 tons) of wood fuel per term (or
48 Lorries totaling 336 tons per year. With the new stoves they are using 4 Lorries (28
tons) per term or 12 Lorries (84 tons) per year, a reduction of 75% in wood burned which
is a huge environmental benefit. Ugali preparation used to take 3 hours to cook but now it
takes only one hour, a reduction of 67%. As wood fuel costs Ksh 14,000 per lorry of 7
tons (Ksh 224,000 per term and Ksh 672,000 per year) and now they are spending only
Ksh 56,000 per term (about Ksh 168,000 per year), it represents a saving of Ksh 504,000
per year which is used to repay the loan taken to construct the new kitchen. In three years
they will have paid the loan and will start building a school dining hall with the scheme
savings. The school principle explained that “this was a God sent opportunity that I could
not loose. I grabbed it when it came. Now I don’t need to go to ask parents for money”.
The old open fire burner stoves were a health hazard to the kitchen staff and students.
The environment is now attractive and the health of the staff has improved.




                          Modern school kitchen build by     Energy efficient stoves
                          a loan being paid with savings     installed and in use at the
Old school kitchen                                           new kitchen
                          from the wood fuel budget
57.     The Giachuki and Ndindiruku Secondary Schools are located in Kigoro
Murang’a and in Tebere Kirinyaga County respectively. The first one invested Ksh
465,600 and the second one Ksh 873,000 for installing energy efficient stoves and an
oven for making bread. The schools have been consuming thousands of tons of wood fuel
per year for cooking and heating water for showering in their cold areas. Stoves allowed
reducing consumption of wood fuel drastically: Gachukia School from 90 tons to 30 tons
per year, a reduction of 67%; while Ndindiruku School from 30 tons to 7.5 tons, 75% less.
Thousands of trees are now saved every year, reducing drastically the amount of carbon
emitted to the atmosphere. The schools also established environmental clubs to mobilize
their communities to plant trees and care for the environment. The Giachukia Secondary
School photos below show the improved stoves and the school community planting trees.




                                            67
                                                 Tree planting
                         Installed improved      initiative led by     Students planting
Installed improved       tea urn                 school principal      trees
Stoves
58.     Giachuki School reduced its consumption costs on wood from Ksh 540,000 to
Ksh 60,000 per year saving 88%, while Ndindiruku School reduction was from Ksh
60,000 to Ksh 15,000. The former is using their savings to construct a new dining hall,
equip the kitchen and establish a tree nursery for supplying seedlings to plant in the
school and surroundings. The latter use their savings to pay a baker to supplement the
school feeding program where students are provided with a balanced diet and started a
school greening program. They bought and planted 700 seedlings in the school and
started a bakery business unit that is supplying cakes and bread at lower prices to the
students, teachers and surroundings. The school consumes about 7,560 per year and the
cost of bread is Ksh 45 meaning that the school spends Ksh 340,200 per year in bread.
They are making saving being used for paying two cooks at Ksh 13,500 per month. The
baker keeps Ksh 7,000 as salary from the extra bread she makes for sale.
Biogas linked toilets (EcoSan) in schools schemes
59.     Global warming and environmental degradation has become a great threat to
mankind. In African wood is the major source of energy for millions of people in rural
areas, in households, schools and industry. Trees are the best means of mitigating carbon
emissions reducing global warming and inducing rain. Cutting trees for wood fuel is
therefore a practice that needs to be curbed by developing alternative and sustainable
energy solutions. There are about 4,000 schools, 100 prisons and over 100 colleges’
dependent of wood fuel in Kenya consuming huge volumes of wood for fuel. Also, most
wastewater and droppings from schools is discharged untreated into the surroundings
threatening the health of people. The CDD component funded 23 schemes (3.25% of all
projects funded) to schools for producing biogas from human and animal wastes.
Targeted schools had a minimum of 400 boarding students without adequate sanitation.
People are faced not only to a polluted environment, but also to a high risk of infection.
About 5000 children die daily from diarrhea which is caused by poor sanitation (UN-
Water). The Biogas/Bio-latrine schemes - supported by experts in Kenya (Skylink and
Ecosan) - aimed to meet economic, environmental, social, educational and health needs.
60.     The Thumaita Girls Secondary School has 400 students located in Gichugu,
Kirinyaga County. The support for the school included: bio-digester, baffle reactors,
gravel filter and 20 toilets. Money spend on wood for fuel is now saved altogether as the
biogas system substituted wood as source of energy. One student is estimated to consume
0.352 tons wood fuel per year, so the Thumaita’s 400 girls consumed about 140.8 tons of
wood per year. Each ton of wood for fuel costs about Ksh 2,961, so school annual
savings are about Ksh 416,909. Slurry from digester is used as organic fertilizer in the
                                            68
school farm saving an additional Ksh 40,000 per year from avoided cost of fertilizer.
There will no longer be necessary to dig new pit latrines every time the old ones fill up,
or to spend money to empty the latrines. They used Ksh 500,000 to dig new pit latrines
every 3 to 5 years and spent Ksh 200,000 every time they exhaust filled up pit latrines.




Construction work      Construction work      Construction work        Construction work




Ongoing                  Solar Water heater WB supervision              WB supervision
construction work
61.     With the system Thumaita School saves approximately 140.8 tons of wood fuel
per year. As one kg of wood is equivalent to 1.7 kg of carbon the scheme reduces about
240 tons of Carbon emissions. On average one person produces about 0.75 kg of waste
per day. As one kg of human waste produces 40 liters of biogas, the 400 girls from
Thumaita produce 300kgs of waste per day resulting in 12,000 liters of biogas per day.
One liter of biogas is equivalent to 0.0134kgs of carbon, so 12,000 liters of biogas
produce 160.8 kgs of carbon a day. In one year (290 school days) this means 46.6 tons of
carbon. The bio-latrines in the school therefore, mitigate 46.6 tons of carbon per year
through burning the biogas for cooking. 11 tons of carbon is equivalent to reforesting one
acre of forest per year. Hence, the school avoids cutting, or is equivalent to foresting 4.2
acres per year. The slurry from the bio-digester being rich in nutrients is used in the
schools’ farms as organic fertilizer reducing the use of chemical fertilizers.
62.     The health condition in the school is greatly improved through use of proper
sewage disposal and treatment mechanism with the biogas system, contributing towards
better performance by the school academically. It also improves health of the community
and reduces the money required to cover medical treatments to students affected. It also
reduces the likelihood of chronic diseases that are associated with the indoor combustion
of biomass-based fuels, such as respiratory infections, ailments of the lungs; bronchitis,
etc. Smoke has been named “the Killer in the house” by the World Health Organization.
63.     In all funded schools, the administration has appointed staff members and 2 local
artisans who received some training by the contractors on site, especially on O&M of the
system. At completion before commissioning, the contractor conducts full training
targeting the project implementation committee, parents, school staff and community
members. Other schools and community members have been visiting the schools to


                                            69
assess progress and learn how the system operates becoming a training center of interest,
producing biogas from human waste and many are seeking funding for this technology.
Fish farming schemes
64.     The project funded 29 fish ponds, 4% of all schemes with the support from the
Fisheries Department to meet the NRMP objectives and improve livelihood of the people
through construction of adequate fish ponds, community sensitization on environmental
issues, aqua culture production, following fisheries laws and regulations, marketing of
fish productions and value addition, licensing of fish traders, increase fingerings
production, feed formulations, training of farmers on fish farming and management.
65.     The Ebenezer Trout Group (Fish and Fingerlings Production) was formed in
2008 with 26 farmers members (17 women, 9 men) living along the edge of Kabaru
forest in Nyeri County along Sagana River. The SHG was licensed by KFS to operate in
the forest and given a water permit by WRMA to use the water from the river integrating
fish farming and forest conservation and management. Before the SHG project, the group
was engaged with subsistence irrigated cropping based on the unreliable water flow
increasingly affected by climate change. As they realized the importance of trout fish as a
source of income and Omega 3, and that the quality of water was good, with technical
support and training they are now benefiting through: increased food security, office
installations and increased income generated from the sale of fingerings and trout fish.




New fish pond after NRM funding             Trout fingerings




Mature trout fish ready for sell



                                            Slaughtered trout ready to sell


                                            70
66.     They have sold fingerings worth Ksh 130,000, developed good relations and
partnered with other SHG and organizations to gain knowledge, encourage communities
to plant indigenous trees and create job opportunities to members. The scheme is used as
a training center by Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology, for taking
a degree in Fisheries and in Forestry and is visited by tourists who come to Mountain
Lodge, Serena Hotel which is 400 meters away. In April 2013, the group lost 13,000
fingerings and 800 250-gms brooders due to upstream river poisoning by a tree from the
forest that was cut down by encroachers. They are still struggling to recover from losses
and seeking for further support. A peer trout fish farming CBO donated 500 trout
fingerlings imported from Japan being now reared as breeding stock.
67.     The Mathina Cross Section SHG (Tilapia and Cat Fish) is located in Kiganjo,
Nyeri County was supported with two units of fish ponds. They invested Ksh 300,000,
and introduced 1000 fingerlings of Tilapia and 10 cat fish to control Tilapia population.
In March, 2013 (first harvest) they harvest 235Kgs sold at Ksh 70,500. A part of revenues
was shared among members and the largest portion was kept to continue with the fish
scheme. They have not faced any major challenges and is performing very well.




Fish pond                    Fished Tilapia                Tilapia cooked and served
Tree Nursery schemes
68.     In total 87 trees and bamboo nurseries were established representing 12% of all
projects funded. A total of 2.8 million seedlings have been produced to-date of which part
has been sold and other distributed to various communities in the upper Tana catchment
area. KFS was involved in capacity building, technical services provision; training CBO
members on tree nursery establishment, management and marketing. Tree nursery SHGs
were trained on the importance of environmental conservation, use of reliable source of
seeds/seedlings; use of small well maintained and covered trucks and other matters. They
are also required to ensure minimal soil erosion at the seedbed and during transplanting.
Major challenges faced by the CBOs are death of seedlings, poor germination rates, lack
of water during dry periods and lack of ready market when seedlings are set for planting.
69.     The Greenland Agro-forestry Tree NurserySHG is a CBO formed in 2004 and
registered in 2006 with the Ministry of Gender, Children and Social Development located
within Ndiko sub-location, Gakoe location in Gatundu North district-Kiambu County. It
has 24 members (9 women and 15 men, of which 7 youths) managed by a well-structured
bylaws. Operations are headed by the Executive, and finance, monitoring and procuring
sub-committees. They specialized in propagation of bamboo and other species. They
received Ksh 920,000 from NRMP (1st and 3rd call) for constructing two greenhouses.

                                           71
70.     They have raised 28,000 Bamboo seedlings and 18,000 of other species and
benefited on entrepreneurship and leadership management skills. They sold 4000
Bamboo seedlings and 10,500 of other seedlings for Ksh 745,000 and distributed 1,000
Bamboo and 500 other seedlings to members and the community for planting in their
farms and public places like schools, Kieni forest station, and river banks. The scheme
generates many benefits to members and their community including additional income,
employment opportunities, afforestation and internships to students on environmental
studies.




Bamboo propagation   Bank officials visiting   CBO being trained at the   Indigenous and exotic trees
in green house       the Greenland project     project site               nursery
71.    Dividends distributed among members at the end of last year amounted to Ksh
240,000. The scheme performance is satisfactory. Some of the challenges experienced
include: formation of CFA due to lack of clear organizational structure, communication
gap between the project secretariat and officers on the ground. The tree nursery scheme
was categorized under category ‘A’ attracting 30% CBO contribution which was a
problem for many potential groups involved in tree seedling production and conservation.
72.     The Ruguru Tree Cover Tree Nursery is a similar CBO case located in Sagana,
Nyeri County formed in 2003 and registered in 2006. It comprises 250 members (100
women and 150 men) of which 105 are active. Operations are managed by a similar
structure as the previous case. They received Ksh 1,626,700 during the 1st and 4th calls
and constructed two green houses. So far they produced 8,500 bamboo and 430,000 other
seedlings. They also benefited on entrepreneurship and leadership management skills.
They sold 1,000 bamboo seedlings generating Ksh 400,000 and distributed 500 bamboo
seedlings to members and the community. A 7,000 bamboo seedlings order is growing
and is expected to generate Ksh 2.8M within the next two months. They have sold 80,000
indigenous and exotic seedlings generating Ksh 800,000 and distributed 100,000
seedlings to CFAs and WRUAs to plant at Hombe forest station and Sagana river banks.
The scheme provided many benefits including: income from sale of seedlings, job
opportunities and reforestation. The Ruguru Tree Cover and Hombe CFA members are
participating with KFS and KEFRI to train other CBOs on bamboo propagation in Mount
Kenya and parts of Rift Valley. The project performance is highly satisfactory.
Conclusions of the Assessment of CDD supported schemes
73.     The introduction of livelihood activities is providing new opportunities to the
rural communities leading to reduced pressure on existing water and forest resources.
Various CBOs have been offered training on various aspects (e.g. Environmental
Conservation, Conflict Management, Governance, Leadership and Management). The
communities are expected to continue to improve their livelihoods as a result of the new

                                               72
activities and their increased empowerment on resources sustainability and in influencing
their own future.
74.      The livelihood schemes have enhanced integrated water and forest resource
management in the project areas and have contributed immensely towards the
conservation and protection of the Upper Tana water catchment. There are minimal and
manageable negative environmental and social impacts associated with the project
activities which need to continue to be addressed as indicated in the ESMP.




                                           73
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                Responsibility/
           Names                             Title                    Unit
                                                                                  Specialty
Lending
Leonard John Abrams       Consultant                             AFTN2
Sandra Jo Bulls           Program Assistant                      AFTN1
Enos E. Esikuri           Senior Environmental Specialist        LCSEN
Serigne Omar Fye          Consultant                             CICAF
Wambui G. Gichuri         Sector Manager                         LCSWS
Nyambura Githagui         Lead Social Development Specialist     AFTCS
Tracy Hart                Senior Environmental Specialist        MNSEN
Richard John Kaguamba     Consultant                             CPFCF
Lucie Muchekehu           Program Assistant                      AFCE2
Christian Albert Peter    Lead Environmental Specialist          LCSEN
Dahir Elmi Warsame        Senior Procurement Specialist          AFTPE
Moses Sabuni Wasike       Senior Financial Management Specialist OPSOR
Wendy A. Wiltshire        Consultant                             AFTA1
IJsbrand Harko de Jong    Lead Water Resource Management         ECSAR
Christine E. Cornelius                                            CICIN Project Task Team
                                                                        Leader
Supervision/ICR
Henry Amena Amuguni       Senior Financial Management Specialist   AFTME
Christine E. Cornelius    Consultant                                CICIN
Efrem Fitwi               Procurement Specialist                   AFTPE
Serigne Omar Fye          Consultant                               CICAF
Helene Gichenje           Consultant                               AFTN1
Thaisa Tiglao Katz        Communications Associate                 EXTCC
Juma Kayonko              Consultant                               AFTEE
Jane A. N. Kibbassa       Senior Environmental Specialist          AFTN3 Environmental
                                                                          safeguards
Naomi Ntatai Kipuri       Consultant                               AFTCS
Yuko Kurauchi             Consultant                               AFTN1
Markus Moeller            Consultant                               AFTA1
Edwin Nyamasege Moguche   E T Consultant                           AFTME
Lucie Muchekehu           Program Assistant                        AFCE2
Julius Githinji Muchemi   Consultant                               CPFCF
Junko Nishikawa           Junior Professional Officer              GFDRR
Monica Gathoni Okwirry    Program Assistant                        AFCE2
Tom Mboya Owiyo           Consultant                               AFCE2
Christian Albert Peter    Lead Environmental Specialist            LCSEN Project Task Team
                                                                          Leader, 2008-2012
Satoru Ueda               Lead Water Resources Specialist          TWIWA Irrigation
Pierrick Fraval           Senior Water Resources Specialist        AFTA2 Irrigation
Jorge E. Uquillas Rodas   Consultant                               OPCQC
Dahir Elmi Warsame        Senior Procurement Specialist            AFTPE
Stephen Danyo             Senior NRM Specialist                    AFTN1 Project Task Team
                                                                          Leader, July 2012 to


                                               74
                                                                       closing, and ICR Task
                                                                       Team Leader
Gibwa Kajubi              Sr. Social Development Specialist     AFTCS  Social safeguards
Rafik Hirji               Sr. Water Resource Specialist         AFTN2  Water resources
Neeta Hooda               Sr. Carbon Finance Specialist         CPFCF  REDD
Margaret Ombai            Consultant Forest/VMGs                AFTCS  Forest communities
Suzanne Kiamba            Consultant Forest/VMGs                AFTCS  Forest communities
Shamis Musingo            Program Assistant                     AFCE2
Hope Nachemeza            Program Assistant                     AFCE2
Mary Jackson              Program Assistant, STC                AFTN2
Juan Morelli              Consultant ICR Preparation            AFTN2 ICR preparation
Yesuf Abdella             FAO-TCIA Irrigation Engineer                Irrigation
Ida Christensen           FAO-TCIA Rural Sociologist                  Social development
Harry Denecke             FAO-TCIA Water Resource Mgmt.               Irrigation



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                          USD Thousands (including
                                         No. of staff weeks
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                                     44               210.6
  FY07                                                     85               390.2
           Sub-Total:                                     129               600.8
Supervision/ICR
 FY07                                                      19                88.7
 FY08                                                      38               145.3
 FY09                                                      26               121.4
 FY10                                                      23               130.4
 FY11                                                      49               188.3
 FY12                                                      37               150.1
 FY13                                                      19               170.0
 FY14                                                       4                18.4
           Sub-Total:                                     214               994.2
          Grand Total                                     343              1595.0




                                              75
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's Completion Report and Comments on Draft ICR


5.1    Summary of Borrower’s Completion Report
A.     Project Development Objectives and Design
A.1    Introduction
1.       As at 2005, Kenya was going through an impressive economic transition period,
based on the development and implementation of Kenya’s 2003 Investment Program for
the Economic Recovery Strategy for Wealth and Employment Creation (IP-ERS).
However, the natural resource base that serves as the foundation for much of the
country’s economic activity was vulnerable to natural shocks, mismanagement, and
depletion. In response, the Government of Kenya (GoK) promulgated the Water Act
(2002) that provided for the establishment of a new institutional framework for the
management and development of water resources, mainly through the newly established
national Water Resources Management Authority (WRMA). To better manage forest
resources, a new Forest Policy was prepared and a new Forest Act, approved by
parliament in 2005. The Forest Act constituted a new Kenya Forest Service (KFS) and
embraced participatory forest management through Community Forest Associations
(CFAs).
2.       The Natural Resource Management Project (NRMP) aimed to assist the GoK in
designing the needed legislative and institutional framework for implementing policy
with regard to forests and water resources. This would be done through strengthening of
the information base, enhancing the legal and regulatory framework, financing
investments in capital works, and, most importantly, engaging communities as
indispensable partners in co-management of water and forest resources. The project, with
its focus on enhancing the capacity of Kenyans to manage the natural resource base and
resources available to poor and vulnerable communities, was consistent with the CAS
Progress Report.


A.2     Original Project Development Objective (PDO) and Key Indicators
3.      The objective of the project was “to enhance the institutional capacity to manage
water and forest resources, reduce the incidence and severity of water shocks in river
catchments, and improve the livelihoods of communities participating in the co-
management of water and forests”.




A.3     Revised PDO and Key Indicators and Reasons/Justification


                                           76
4.      The PDO was formally revised and simplified in June 2011 “to improve the
management of water and forest resources in selected districts 28”. The revision was
aimed at ensuring project outcomes were within the control of, and could be delivered by,
the Implementing Agencies (IAs).
5.       The revision made the new PDO more attainable within the project lifetime and
simplified the initial PDO which was considered overly ambitious. The change in PDO
also clarified the difference between the PDO and Results Framework as stated in the
Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and in the PAD Summary Sheet and Financing
Agreement (FA).Major changes were made to the Results Framework. While retaining
the original number of PDO level result indicators, two new PDO indicators were
introduced and two initial indicators dropped. The dropped indicators were “Reduction in
sediment load in rivers and water reservoirs in Project intervention areas” and “Micro-
projects that are rated satisfactory or higher by the participants”. The two new indicators
introduced were “Community/User groups collaborating with GoK institutions in water
and/or forest activities (% of which members are female)” and “Increased revenue from
water use charges collected.”
A.4       Main Beneficiaries
6.       The project beneficiaries included: (i) national institutions (Ministry of
Environment, Water and Natural Resources (MEWNR) 29, WRMA, NIB and KFS which
benefited from the capacity building; (ii) sub-national institutions (CFAs, CBOs,, IWUAs,
WRUAs whose capacities was enhanced by the project); (iii) local institutions including
schools adopting efficient energy technologies; (iv) communities in and near project sites
who benefited from livelihood opportunities that the project offered, including agro-
forestry associations operating tree nurseries, irrigation water users associations putting
their land to higher capacity utilization, livestock producers raising higher yielding cows
and goats, rice growers cooperative gaining more members and micro-finance institutions
doing higher value transactions with farmer groups, forest community associations and
indigenous communities dependent on forests.
A.5       Project Components
7.     The project had four components, and during the restructuring, none of them was
changed.
Component One: Water Resource Management and Irrigation (US$44.5 million,
including US$38.1 million IDA) 30




28
   The project intervention areas were to include districts of: Kiambu, Thika, Murang' a, Nyeri, Kirinyaga,Laikipia,
Nyandarua, Mbeere, Machakos, Mt. Elgon, West Pokot, Kakamega, Vihiga, ButereMumias; Lugari, Bungoma, Busia,
UasinGishu, Trans Nzoia, Keiyo, Nandi North, Nandi South, Marakwet, Ugunja, Siaya, Bunyala, Kirinyaga East,
Mwea East and Mwea West.
29
   After the 2013 General Elections, GoK institutions were re-organized creating the Ministry of Environment, Water
and Natural Resources (MEWNR). For ease of reference with other previous project documents, MoWI and MoFW
have been maintained in the report.
30
   The budgetary figures attached to the project components are drawn from the Project Appraisal Document.

                                                        77
8.       This Component had two sub-components 1.1 & 1.2 whose objectives were “to
strengthen WRMA’s capacity to implement the existing laws, policies, and regulations
related to WRM” and “to consolidate irrigation reforms and investments” respectively.
Component Two: Management of Forest Resources (US$22.4 million,
includingUS$21.1 million IDA).
9.        This component built the institutional capacity of MoFW and the then newly
established KFS to develop and implement a transparent and accountable regulatory and
institutional framework, as well as provide targeted support to implement the Forests Act
(2005).
Component Three: Livelihood Investments in the Upper Tana Catchment (US$6.2
million, of which US$4.5 million IDA).
10.      The objective of the Livelihoods Investment in the Upper Tana component was
to engage local communities in the management and conservation of water and forests
resources. It involved funding for livelihoods investments through community based
organization (CBOs). At project close, 706 micro-projects had been funded and
implemented to the tune of Ksh 404, 074,987 with the communities contributing Ksh
83,123,702. A total of 4721 CBO committee members (2077 women and 2644 men)
were trained.
Component Four: Project Coordination, Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
(US$4.9 million, of which US$4.8 million IDA).
11.      This component objectives was to provide overall managerial oversight and the
project’s monitoring and evaluation. The project adopted a results-based implementation
approach that entailed monitoring the implementation of project activities in various
components and linking these with the component outcome indicators and the project
development objective. The NRMP designed and operationalized a Management
Information System (MIS) for reporting on the project development objective, activities
and outputs. The system was found to be useful in planning and reporting on
status/progress in the implementation of the project activities. The system was also used
for data capture, analysis and information sharing between the NRM-PCO and the
implementing agencies. The project also used Results Based Framework reporting system
(matrix) which included outcome indicators. A number of reports were generated
including monthly, quarterly, bi-annual, fieldwork and implementation status reports. The
MIS was upgraded to align the system to the revised Results Framework matrix and
project restructuring of 2011 where activities and indicators were removed and new ones
introduced.
A.6     Other Significant Changes
12.      The project was restructured in June, 2011 at the request of the GoK. The
restructuring covered the following key aspects (i) revision of the Results Framework
which included changes to outcome indicators. (See Annex 4 Results Framework
Analysis) and (ii) reallocation of about 21% of project funds to allow coverage of
financing gaps in irrigation investments and underestimated costs in technical
consultancies.


                                           78
B.       Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
B.1. Implementation
13.       The GoK recognized that for sustainable NRM to be realized there was need for
institutional reforms. It is in light of this that the GoK enacted the Water Act (2002), the
Forest Policy and Forests Act (2005). The Water Act provided a basis for the
implementation of water sector reforms supporting integrated water resource
management. The forest legal and policy framework on the other hand proposed several
reforms in forest management including institutional reforms, participatory forest
management and enhanced private sector investment in forest products. The NRMP was
conceptualized to strengthen the institutional reforms initiated and capacity building.
B.2. Factors that Affected Project Implementation
•     The early 2008 Post-Election Violence caused major implementation delays. While
      the project became effective on December 10, 2007, almost six months after Board
      approval, it was not until April 2008 that implementation commenced. Whereas the
      implementation of the irrigation project was planned to commence in 2007/2008,
      this happened in 2008/2009, 12 months behind schedule.
•     Unsatisfactory performance by Consultants and quality concerns on deliverables
      negatively influenced project implementation. For instance, detailed design and
      tender documents for Lower Nzoia Irrigation Project were submitted by the
      consultant on December 2011 more than one and half years after contracting and had
      to be retendered. Eventually, Lower Nzoia Irrigation Civil Works had to be
      transferred to the new IDA-financed WSCRP.
•     Non-performing works contracts, the WRMA terminated and retendered some
      contracts for drilling of groundwater monitoring boreholes due to non-performance
      of the contractors. Poor contractor performance similarly affected construction of
      Siaya, and Kisumu offices under WRMA.
•     NRMP lacked key staff at critical points during the implementation period. This
      affected KFS and WRMA procurement sections significantly. During the initial
      stages, recruitment of key staff took place after project commencement and high
      staff turnover occurred during implementation. For instance, at the PCO, the
      incumbent M&E officer was the third since project inception.
•     Challenges associated with implementation of social safeguards also influenced
      implementation of the project. KFS initial engagement with the VMGs was not easy
      as the latter viewed KFS with a lot of mistrust and suspicion. This was partly due to
      the influence of elitist groups in the community who turned out to be gate-keepers
      and controversial land issues which are sensitive and historical in nature. Similarly,
      during the supervision of Lower Nzoia project detailed design assignment, it was
      noted that the community felt uninvolved during design phase and hence had
      problems with engineering design.

B.3      Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization
B.3.1    M&E Design and M&E Implementation
14.     A customized MIS was designed from the M&E results framework and results
monitoring plan and put into account the project structure, project implementation
                                             79
arrangements and implementing agency participation. The indicators in the results
framework were adequate and capable of monitoring progress toward PDO achievement.
An M&E Plan was designed during project preparation and included in the PIP. A full-
time officer in the PCO was in charge of M&E activities during the entire project
implementation working in collaboration with implementing agency M&E officers.
Overall, the M&E plan was comprehensive and allowed for adequate measurement of
outputs and outcomes. M&E was systematic with full time M&E officers at PCO and IAs.
Capacity building of M&E was carried out at individual and institutional level across the
IAs. This led to improved capacity with specific regard to data collection, analysis and
reporting. The MIS was able to generate annual work plans and budgets, quarterly and
annual progress reports as well as monitor progress in community projects in component
3 from the NRM-PCO. This was addressed through data sharing among within and by all
affected institutions. The MIS was also upgraded to fix identified gaps and facilitate
reporting of data relating to the revised PDO. The upgrade covered geo-referencing of
CDD projects and social and environmental safeguards reporting.
B.3.2   M&E Utilization
15.     Data collected through the M&E and MIS systems was critical in decision
making. As per the design of the M&E and MIS the indicators identified in the results
framework were reported on by IAs and were discussed by regular implementation
missions. The M&E reports were also used at MTR and in informing restructuring of the
NRMP. The M&E results enabled implementers to gain detailed insight in outputs from
individual project activities and address implementation challenges. The MIS enabled
reporting on the project activities and outputs, data entry and information sharing
between the PCO and the implementing institutions.
B.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
B.4.1   Safeguards Compliance
16.      The NRMP triggered 7 safeguard policies. The project was classified under
Category B since the investments were of a small or medium sized nature, with
environmental, human health and safety, and trans-boundary impacts, that could be easily
identified and mitigated. Despite the complexities in addressing issues related to
vulnerable and marginalized peoples, restricted access to resources, and possibly,
involuntary resettlement, a change in category was not considered necessary. The seven
safeguard policies triggered for the NRMP and compliance initiatives by GoK include:-
Forests (OP4.36) - (The Strategic Environmental Assessment of the Forests Act 2005,
which included provisions for appropriate mitigation measures, was completed in June
2007), Physical Cultural Resources(OP4.11) - (The Environment and Social Management
Framework (ESMF) contained provisions for including in construction contracts a clause
referring to chance finds procedures), Indigenous Peoples (OP4.10) - Indigenous Peoples
Planning Framework (IPPF, Involuntary Resettlement (OP4.12) – (A Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF) and Process Framework, Projects in International Waterways (OP7.50),
Environment Assessment (OP4.01) – (ESMF provided for EIAs for NRMP), and Natural
Habitat(OP4.04) – (ESMF provided mitigation measures in case there were any
significant conversions or degradation of natural habitats).
B.4.2   Financial Management

                                          80
17.       The project documentation specified the procedure through which project funds
would be issued by the World Bank, received by the GoK and released to the IAs through
their line Ministries. During project implementation the implementing agencies
maintained acceptable accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements. At
WRMA, NIB and KFS there were designated accountants to serve the project despite the
project’s payment processes being fully mainstreamed into the financial management
systems of the implementing agencies and GoK. The PCO at the MoWI coordinated
project implementation for three agencies. Adequate budgetary provisions for the project
in the estimates and oversaw general compliance with all legal covenants related to
financial management. Annual financial audit was carried out by the Kenya National
Audit Office. All quarterly IFRs and audit reports were submitted to and reviewed by the
Bank as required by the relevant Financing and Grant Agreements. There were no
outstanding audit issues at project closure.
B.4.3   Procurement
18.      Procurement of goods, civil works and employment of consultants was subject to
the provisions of the “World Bank Procurement and Consultants Guidelines for the
selection and employment of Consultants (May 2004),” and the Government of Kenya
“Public Procurement and Disposal Act, 2005 which were fully adhered to as well as the
Financing Agreement. There were notable delays in procurement processes for some of
the key project activities arising from internal slow processing of key procurement related
activities by the IAs and obtaining the no objection by the IAs from the Bank.
C.      Assessment of Outcomes
C.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation
19.      The project's objectives were consistent with the country's current development
priorities and Bank’s country and sectoral assistance strategies. The NRMP objectives
and activities were also in line with the GoK Vision 2030.
C.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives
PDO Indicator #1: Increased Revenue collected from water use charges
20.      By the end of the project period, the end target for this indicator was surpassed to
an achievement of increase in revenue by Ksh 37M. This achievement was largely
attributed to improved compliance levels especially with large water users such as the
Kenya Electricity Generating Company (KENGEN).This indicator measured WRMA’s
capacity to regulate water use. In order to achieve this, WRMA had to increase its
presence in different parts of the country, improve water resource monitoring and
information gathering.
PDO Indicator #2: Area of forest in the project intervention areas managed
according to approved forest management plans.
21.     Throughout the project duration KFS managed to achieve results above the
annual targets set for this indicator. By June 30th 2013, the achievement was 320,000
hectares of forest area managed under approved forest management plans. The
achievement was largely attributed to implementation of Nandi, Uasin Gishu, Mt. Elgon,
Nyeri, Kakamega and West Pokot forest management plans. More awareness on

                                             81
Participatory Forest Management (PFM) was conducted, with support for development
and implementation of PFM Plans in Mt. Elgon and Nyeri forest zones.
PDO Indicator #3: Community/User Groups Collaborating with GoK institutions in
water and/or forest activities.
22.      Community/User groups collaborating with KFS, NIB and WRMA were
officially registered and thus the gender composition can be verified. By January 2011
there were 40 community groups of which 42% of the members were female. It was
targeted that by December 2011, these groups would increase to 75 having female
membership of 50%. At project end, NRMP had managed 172 groups with 50.5% of their
members being female. These groups included CFAs, IWUAs and WRUAs.
Strengthened capacity of WRMA with direct investments
Intermediate Indicator #1: Micro-catchment action plans developed by WRUAs and
approved by WRMA
23.      WRMA was strengthened to facilitate oversight over the development, approval
and implementation of micro-catchment action plans from the WRUAs. Over the project
period this intervention target was achieved and a total of 51 WRUAs developed their
Sub-Catchment Management Plans (SCMPs) and these plans were approved by WRMA
against a target of 30 micro-catchment action plans. The achievement is attributed to
community involvement in the catchment management through participatory approaches
and intensified awareness creation.
Consolidation of Irrigation Sector Reforms and Investments
Intermediate Indicator #1: Area under irrigation in project intervention areas
24.      The rehabilitation of Mwea, Ahero, West Kano, Bunyala and Perkerra schemes
as originally scheduled during the appraisal was to enhance intensified use of the already
opened scheme areas totaling 12,800 ha under improved irrigation water management.
This target was adjusted to 9,427 ha during the 2011 project adjustment mission. By
achieving a total of 9,740 ha of the already opened scheme land in the 5 schemes put
under production, the project therefore surpassed its target of 9,427 ha. However, since
only Mwea scheme was rehabilitated the results attained in land put under irrigation can
be attributed to both improved water management and use efficiency in Mwea and
capacity building of the IWUAs, which enhanced management of the farms across all the
target schemes leading to more smallholders cultivating their lands. The rehabilitation of
Mwea Irrigation Scheme has seen an increase in number of acreage put under production.
Intermediate Indicator #2: Percentage of scheme farmers satisfied with Board’s
Operation and Maintenance Services
25.     The farmers’ satisfaction level with the Boards’ operation and maintenance has
increased 95 percent compared to project baseline status which stood at 54 percent in
2011. During the baseline year only 54 percent of the farmers were satisfied with IWUA,
O&M plan and water distribution and issues raised during the time in order of importance
were mismanagement of IWUAs, inefficient service provision, high group fees, the ‘no
consultative approach of the group leaders’ and inactive participation by members. The
performance of IWUAs was rated as fair due to them being perceived as powerless

                                           82
institutions that had to work within the provisions of the NIB. Through enhanced capacity
building under NRMP, the IWUAs now understand their roles and responsibilities and
this is helping in the implementation of the O&M plan and improved water distribution
through joint collaboration between IWUAs and NIB.
Intermediate Indicator #3: Percent cost recovery for O&M of the project’s
irrigation investments
26.      The appraisal annual target for O&M collection at project end was 90 percent.
The annual percent O&M cost recovery (amount paid as a percent of invoice issues) from
the scheme participating farmers was about 82 percent against the revised appraisal target
of 90 percent. Through the establishment and strengthening of IWUAs, the project
targeted to enhance significantly the payment of O&M charges by the farmers.
Reforms Necessary to transform and operationalize the Forest Department into a
semi-autonomous service (KFS) implemented
Intermediate Indicator #1: Implementation of KFS Strategic Plan activities
supported
27.      NRMP supported the finalization and printing of the KFS Strategic Plan which
was formally launched in 2009 as well as implementation of KFS Strategic Plan activities
to an achievement of 80% at project end. The ISO Certification of the KFS process was
penultimate awaiting issuance of the official certificate. The reforms were to strengthen
the capacity of the KFS to effectively discharge its mandate and to invest in activities
enabling institutional arrangements to foster forest governance and improve revenue
capture not supported in the GOK budget.
Community Participation and Benefit sharing in indigenous forest management
enhanced
Intermediate Indicator #1: New area brought under forest cover in project
intervention areas
28.       New areas were brought under forest cover in project intervention areas with a
total of 7124 Ha being achieved by June 2013, against an end of project target of 3500 Ha.
The impressive achievements were attained through the involvement of the local
communities spearheaded by CFAs and intensive planting of trees during the long rains.
Intermediate Indicator #2: Vulnerable and Marginalized Group Plans prepared and
activities initiated according to defined work schedules
29.      Seven Vulnerable and Marginalized Group Plans (VMGPs) were prepared and
activities initiated according to defined work schedule. Significant benefits and positive
impacts were realized and included: improved income for some of the VMGs who are
already reaping benefits from the micro-projects (dairy cows, greenhouse tomatoes, tree
seedlings and poultry), and capacity building through the training of the VMGCC in
group dynamics, conflict resolution within community and between community on how
to be better farmers in in forests conservation and micro projects investments.
Intermediate Indicator #3: KFS technical staff trained in participatory forest
management


                                            83
30.     Training was a major capacity building agenda in the project plan and hence 100
KFS technical staff received training in Participatory Forest Management. In addition,
388 technical staff of KFS received training on aspects of safeguards policy related to the
VMGs.
Communities and Private Sector Investing in Commercial Forestry
Intermediate Indicator #1: Number of Production forests whose management has
been transferred to the private sector
31.      Substantial progress towards achievement of the above objective had been made.
Guidelines for transfer of management of forests to the private had been developed.
However, the process could not proceed as it was stopped by the National Alliance of
Community Forest Associations (NACOFA) through a court injunction. Consequently,
the target set was not achieved by the end of the project period.
Opportunities for livelihoods enhancement identified and promoted using CDD
approach in project intervention areas
Intermediate Indicator #1: Number of livelihood based micro-projects supported
32.      Using the CDD approach, the NRMP sought proposals from communities in the
treatment catchments and forest perimeters to invest in livelihood enhancing micro-
projects which support the natural resource base. A significant number of livelihood
based micro projects were supported under NRMP. A total of 713 CBOs with a
membership of 119,771 had been mobilized and trained. Of the members, 51% were
women (61,012) represented while men were 49% (58,759). During the four calls for
proposals, a total of 3332 proposals were received from community groups out of which
a total of 706 projects were funded by the NRMP to a tune of Ksh 404,074,987 (NRM –
Ksh 320, 951,265 , and CBOs Ksh 83,123,702). A total of 260 line agency staff and
4721 CBO committee leaders (2644 men and 2077 women) were trained on governance,
financial management, and procurement, monitoring and reporting.
C.3     Efficiency
33.      NRMP was efficient in utilizing resources to achieve significant benefits by also
addressing national and local benefits through the effective protection and management
of natural resources and strengthening and transformation of key institutions. Notably,
the NRMP operated with minimum staffing as key project staff were mainly GoK
employees with additional roles thereby efficiently utilizing resources and ensuring
sustainability of gains realized. Benefits of project activities were quite substantial and as
explained above, the economic analysis was approached at component level in order to
inform the overall rating (See Annex 3 for details).
C.4     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
34.      The CDD projects under the Livelihood Investments in Upper Tana Catchment
exhibited early economic, social, health and environmental benefits and are viewed as
serious opportunities to be scaled up under future projects. The type of income generating
activities funded include: bee keeping, bamboo production, brick making, CBO capacity
building, efficient irrigation, poultry rearing, dairy goats rearing, rabbit rearing, fish

                                              84
farming, tree nursery establishment, artificial insemination, milk processing, biogas/Bio
Latrines, fuel efficient stoves, dairy cows, seed bulking, fodder production, chip making,
horticulture-green houses, value addition, and sunflower oil production. Improved gender
representation in the Community/User groups is a positive step for the involvement of
women to participate in decision making especially with regard to NRM.
D.       Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
35.      There is no substantial risk of backtracking on project achievements given
Kenya’s strong commitment to the environment and sustainable development. There will
be a need for continued activity to promote and build enforcement capacity, knowledge
development, awareness building, and scaling-up of new community-level investment
activities to achieve environmental and development benefits.
E.       Assessment of Bank and Borrower performance
E.1      Bank Performance
36.      The services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the operation and
supported effective implementation through appropriate implementation support. The
Bank identified, facilitated preparation of, and appraised the operation such that it was
most likely to achieve planned outcomes. The quality of the Bank’s support was
determined with regard to focus on development impact, supervision of fiduciary and
safeguard aspects, candor and quality of performance reporting. The loan conditions
advanced by the Bank were appropriate because they were to ensure that the project was
implemented within the prescribed strategy. Resources were allocated to support
transformation of both public sector as well as local institutions, and for capacity
strengthening. However, the change of Task Team Leader (TTL) thrice during the project
lifetime was not beneficial to NRMP as this slowed down project implementation.
Essentially this meant that the new TTLs required some time to effectively acquaint with
the project before efficiently providing leadership to NRMP.
E.2      Borrower Performance
37.      The Government of Kenya as the borrower participated in the project design,
negotiation, Loan Agreement, implementation, supervision and offering implementation
support, undertaking specific studies, annual performance reviews, auditing and reporting.
The GoK adhered to the Loan covenants which included provision of counterpart funding
but with challenges in providing the same on time. The government also developed
appropriate sectoral policies that contributed in enhancing implementation and realization
of project objectives (e.g. Water Act 2002, Forests Act 2005). The Government set up
project implementation structures such as PSC, PCO, AC and NPCC to facilitate project
implementation and provided sectoral staff at each of these levels. All the line ministries
that were involved in the project implementation gave appropriate support in the project
implementation.
F.       Lessons Learnt
38.      Some key lessons learnt from the project are summarized below:
•     Strengthening of farmer organizations as key stakeholders in irrigation water use has
      given farmers efficient delivery of service. When farmers’ organizations are

                                             85
       strengthened, they become responsible and effective organizations to tackle
       problems of common concern and successful farming operations.
•      Public awareness and participatory engagement of communities in planning of
       changes that affect them, is important for the success of the changes at
       implementation. This was particularly evident during the implementation of the
       Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups Plans (VMGPs) and KFS’s engagement with
       Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups Coordinating Committees (VMGCC).The
       foregoing led to improved relationships between the KFS and VMGs resulting in
       better conservation of forests and the realization that with dialogue, consultations,
       communication and openness, both KFS and the VMGs had a lot to gain from each
       other. The CDD process of proposal preparation, submission, screening, approval,
       funding and implementation has proved that transparency and accountability in
       community led development approaches empowers communities to take the lead in
       their own development process.
•      Future projects in the water sector should consider giving prominence to monitoring
       activities, proper macro and micro-project planning, regular and planned training of
       CBOs, WRUAs, and project staff. Equally, projects involving implementation by
       CBOs and WRUAs, should put foolproof structures for holding CBOs and WRUAs
       accountable to the resources they are given.
•      NRMP activities were undertaken as part of the routine/mandate of IAs. This has the
       desirable effect that NRM activities will continue to be carried out in the post-project
       period. Mainstreaming of project activities in implementing agencies activities
       ensures sustainability after project closure.



5.2.     Borrower’s Comments on Draft ICR
39.    We have gone through the entire draft ICR and it gives a reasonable assessment of
the achievements realized during the NRM Project implementation period. The Project
was implemented successfully despite the initial challenges encountered during the first
and second years of the project.




                                               86
Annex 6. Lessons Learned

1.      The Project offers a number of lessons on institutions, investments, information
and implementation for future GOK programming and external financial support to
natural resources and the sectors it drives or helps protect. It also provides important
lessons for Kenya as it devolves to lower levels of political and resource management.

2.       The Project adds to the evidence base that natural resources including water,
forest, and soils typically benefit from strong and fair participatory approaches to
managing the resource and sharing the benefits from the resource, underpinned by robust
resource monitoring and grievance redress. Sustainable NRM actions should therefore
consider including (i) strong environmental and socio-economic monitoring underpinned
by strong data gathering and information management, (ii) good incentives for local
resource users to avoid free riderbehavior that degrades natural wealth, (iii) secure and
predictable rights to resources by local communities, and (iv) effective coordination on
planning and prioritization among stakeholders and sectors, given that changes in an
upstream area (forested watersheds) affect downstream actors (villages, irrigation users,
cities) and can drive conflict.

3.      NRM requires a serious effort to establish and use evidence, especially in an era
of greater climate uncertainty and variability that requires higher levels of resilience than
projects and programs have explicitly addressed in the past. This is especially true for
many countries accessing IDA resources, and within those countries, the most
marginalized poorest regions. Kenya is no different in this regard.

4.      Lessons regarding participatory approaches to NRM: Community
participation at all stages is critical to the success of any development project.

   •   NRM relies upon participatory approaches that include efforts to clarify or
       establish rights and obligations; adequate resources and capacities to fully
       participate in decision-making; and the use of incentives and mechanisms to
       encourage environmentally sustainable behaviour. Bank-financed projects can
       support transformations to enhance participatory approaches.
   •   The CDD livelihoods micro-projects can be a good approach for helping
       incentivize local communities in co-managing natural resources with the
       government while enhancing livelihoods. Much work needs to be done at the
       same time to incentivize Government agencies to likewise move toward co-
       management of the resource. For some forest agencies around the world, such a
       transformation is a paradigm shift that requires longer-term engagement than a 3-
       5 year project allows. The CDD project manual was a useful tool to promote
       activities that can allow communities to conserve more and produce more. NRM-
       based livelihoods can effectively improve community participation in sustainable
       co-management of resources while improving their livelihoods and mitigating
       destruction of catchments.
   •   Clearly defined processes of CDD sub-project proposal preparation, submission,
       screening, approval, funding and implementation bring in high degree of
                                              87
       transparency and accountability in community led development approaches,
       which in turn empowers communities to take the lead in their own development
       process.
   •   Communities and stakeholders, if clearly mobilized and educated, with well-
       defined roles and responsibilities, they can contribute significant resources as well
       as gain social capital (leadership, governance and negotiation skills) that can
       outlive the project.

5.       Lessons for WRM: NRM, especially land use and management in forest and
agricultural areas, has implications on water resources and surface water infrastructure,
and vice-versa. NRM is a complex, and often costly, process that entails numerous but
unrelated constituencies (such as upstream forest dwellers, indigenous communities,
downstream farmers, municipalities and other water users, as well as water and energy
utilities):

   •   It is therefore essential for catchment management to be based on a sound and
       objective information base. The bathymetric surveys of the Masinga Dam,
       Kamburu Dam, Sasumua Dam and Nkakaini Dam provided an objective and
       quantifiable basis for understanding the degree of the sedimentation problem
       (from negligible to serious depending on the reservoir) and consequences of
       upstream land degradation on the major water supply and energy infrastructures
       in the Tana catchment.
   •   Catchment management needs to engage strong inter-agency collaboration and
       multi-disciplinary approaches for modifying SLM practices. Proper farming
       methods to avert issues of low soil cover is more relevant to controlling sediment
       levels in the rivers than are check dams. Prevention measures cost less than do
       remedial actions.
   •   The strong synergy created between NRMP and WaSSIP focusing on the
       management of critical catchments for important water storage infrastructure
       (Sasumua Dam, Ndakaini Dam and Kikuyu Springs) offers valuable lessons for
       the KWSCRP and other similar investments elsewhere in Africa.
   •   For a water scarce nation such as Kenya, all freshwater resources are vital, and
       their proper management is essential. Flexibility in implementation is needed to
       meet the broad goals of NRM. Even though the Project was initially focused on
       surface water systems, once the importance of groundwater became evident, its
       subsequent attention and contribution to promoting groundwater management
       became notable:

          i. Detailed study of the Kikuyu Springs (a small but stable source of water for
             Nairobi and Kikuyu communities) and development of a groundwater
             management plan for the springs directly contributed to the gazzetting of the
             Kikuyu Springs recharge area, making it the first legally protected
             groundwater conservation area in Kenya.


                                            88
           ii. The GoK reports that the support under NRMP in the study of the
               groundwater recharge of Kikuyu Springs and groundwater management
               options was an eye opener on the way to carry out groundwater assessments
               and prepare aquifer management plans. The involvement of key
               stakeholders in this activity contributed largely to its successful
               achievement.
          iii. In addition, Kenya’s new groundwater development and management policy
               was supported to reflect changing knowledge about groundwater in the
               country and the practical challenges for managing the resource.

6.      Lessons for irrigation: The Lower Nzoia design as well as the Mwea
rehabilitation and outgrower expansion indicate lessons for large irrigation schemes to be
environmentally, economically, and socially sustainable and resilient now and in the
future during an era of greater climate variability and water stress:

     •   Irrigation governance reform is critical and should be based on accountability,
         transparency, and full water user responsibility of O&M, including cost sharing of
         investments costs and full cost recovery of O&M costs. This experience echoes
         the existing body of evidence.
     •   An inclusive and holistic participatory approach to sustainable large scale
         irrigation planning and development is critical for successful and sustainable
         implementation. For this to occur, projects should establish the necessary
         incentives for water users to play a critical role at early stages, and to facilitate
         long term win-win linkages between project beneficiaries, crop decisions and
         markets, agribusiness firms, banking, NGOs, associations, and service providers.
     •   Irrigation schemes need strong M&E to be sustainable and to be sustainably
         financed. NIB does not yet methodically report on key irrigation parameters like
         water use efficiency, income per drop, O&M cost per ha, or of key institutional
         development challenges like strengthening the financial sustainably of schemes
         and preparing for irrigation management transfer. Investments in general are not
         sufficiently prioritized according to quantitative social or economic evidence but
         are instead set largely by considerations of technical potential.
     •   Irrigation schemes can generate more resilient and environmentally sustainable
         livelihoods than would otherwise be possible by including coordinated SLM
         strategies such as: (i) System of Rice Intensification which can generate more
         crop per drop, (ii) soil and water conservation measures to manage salinization, or
         (iii) erosion prevention measures such as bunding, cover cropping and tree
         planting (with locally appropriate species) in the immediate command area to
         reduce reservoir siltation. There is no silver bullet, however, as local
         circumstances differ widely.
7.       Lessons for forest resource management:
     •   Institutional reforms should be accompanied by local investment to ensure
         reforms have a practical outlet that benefits a diverse array of forest stakeholders.
         For example, the indigenous communities who, with NRMP support, developed

                                               89
         VMG Plans and implemented CDD activities to reduce stress on the forest,
         reported very high satisfaction rates and asked that the project continue, according
         to the Inspection Panel mission to the area. Such CDD support can be a trust-
         building measure that can be a starting point for modern methods of forest co-
         management. Yet such trust building carried out over the approximately three
         years of project implementation in the forests can later be un-done by higher-level
         political events outside the scope of one technical project.
     •   A heavy emphasis should be placed on promoting participatory approaches to
         forest management, monitoring, and use. This work needs to take place at all
         levels, from community up to national, and address capacities of all types of
         stakeholders and the Government, not only KFS. NRMP supported the first social
         development specialist at KFS who is now mainstreamed.
     •   Forest managers and the upstream and downstream communities reliant on forests
         should all have sufficient time, tools, and budget to build trust – beyond the short
         time frame of an externally-financed project. Likewise, GoK institutions should
         also have sufficient time, tools, and budget to build trust among partner agencies
         (such as those responsible for water, agriculture, tourism, wildlife, environment,
         rural development, planning and land) to engage in collaborative investment
         prioritization and support evidence-based land use planning at larger scales (i.e.,
         watersheds or other landscape units).
     •   When faced with complex legacy land and livelihoods access issues that pre-date
         the project intervention, it is critical to fully assess the dynamics involved and
         properly estimate the effort needed to provide investment support to the area. This
         effort will require consultations that are well documented, well attended,
         substantive and regular, as NRMP has done. Only these types of consultations
         will generate free, prior and informed consent for intervention. Once under
         implementation, the project team must actively respond as NRMP did to any
         complaint, such as by directing the complainant to existing grievance redress
         procedures, and also be proactive by discussing issues with entities outside the
         direct scope of the Project, as NRMP did with MSSP and the Lands Commission.
         To support the above, consider putting in place a rapid response team that can
         carry out highly frequent field missions as did NRMP every ten weeks – assuming
         budget is available.
     •   Project documentation should be very clear what the project is supporting and
         what it is not able to support; in the case of KFS, it was never well placed to
         “offer assistance within the land restitution process to indigenous people to claim
         all lands over which they have lost control between 1895 and 2002” as the IPPF
         committed NRMP to do.

8.       Lessons for project implementation and preparation:
     •   Linking triggers for investments to progress of reform steps at the sector level was
         one of the main causes for delays and had to be modified at MTR to allow for
         reforms and investments to go in parallel.


                                              90
•   The project design was relevant but too broad, addressing multiple reform issues
    among several IAs. The agencies had an insufficient technical capacity and staff
    retention, and the implementation period was short for the ambitious agenda.
    Sufficient time and budget needs to be given to project preparation to ensure that
    all the moving parts operate in concert.
•   Before the start of the project, it is important to spend the time and resources
    needed to provide solid baseline information, based on consistent and realistic
    indicators, so that project impacts can be effectively assessed.
•   Changes in human resources: Project staff changes at IAs should be kept to a
    minimum to maintain the learning curve. Also, NRMP was assigned three
    successive TTLs during its short life, possibly leading to higher transaction costs.
•   Mainstreaming project implementation activities within the implementing
    agencies enhances ownership and ensures sustainability. Capacity building of
    institutional staff involved in implementation of project activities should be
    encouraged throughout the project period. In this way a critical mass for
    implementing future similarly funded projects is created and momentum can be
    gained on the delivery of project outputs.




                                         91
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document, Natural Resource Management Project. February 26, 2007
Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of the NRMP, June 24, 2011
Level Two Restructuring Paper for the NRMP, June 17, 2013
Aide Memoires for Preparation, Appraisal and Supervision Missions of the NRMP
(November 2007 – June 2013)
Implementation Status and Results Reports of the NRMP (November 2007 – June 2013)
Kenya – NRMP – Report and Recommendations. Inspection Panel, WB, May 29, 2013
Project Completion Report – NRMP, MoEWNR, August 8, 2013; plus background
reports:
       NRM Livelihood Component 3, Evaluation Report, WRMA, June 2013
       Report: Management of Forest Resources Component NRMP, KFS, August 23,
       2013
       Irrigation Subcomponent, NRMP, Draft Completion Report, August 2013
       NRMP Component 1.1 and 3, WRMA, August 2013
3rd Annual Environmental Audit NRMP, Millennium Management Consultants LTD,
June 2013
Technical World Bank mission report: Implementation Support Mission to Cherangani
Hills and Mt Elgon, June 9-19, 2013




                                         92
Annex 8. Map




     92
