                Report No. 77959-KE




Report and Recommendation



 KENYA: Natural Resource
Management Project (P095050)




        May 29, 2013
                                        The Inspection Panel


                                  Report and Recommendation
                                              On
                                     Request for Inspection


               Kenya: Natural Resource Management Project (P095050)




A.       Introduction

    1.   In accordance with the Resolution (hereinafter “the Resolution?) 1 establishing the
         Inspection Panel (hereinafter “the Panel?), the purpose of this Report and
         Recommendation on Request for Inspection (hereinafter “the Report?) is to make a
         recommendation to the Board of Executive Directors (hereinafter the Board?) as to
         whether the Panel should investigate the matters alleged in this Request related to the
         above-mentioned project. The Panel’s recommendation is based on its consideration of
         the technical eligibility of the Request and its assessment of other factors as reflected in
         the Resolution.

    2.   This Report begins with a description of the Project subject of the Request for Inspection
         (Section B) and continues with summaries of the written Request as received by the Panel
         on January 14, 2013 (Section C) and of the Management Response to the Request
         submitted on March 15, 2013 (Section D) followed by the Panel’s review (Section E).
         The Panel’s determination of the technical eligibility of the Request, in accordance with
         the 1999 Clarification to the Resolution, 2 is set out in Section E (1) below. Section E (2)
         provides the Panel’s observations on other factors considered before making its
         recommendation to the Board. The Panel’s recommendation on whether an investigation
         of the matters alleged in the Request is warranted is presented in Section F.

    3.   On January 14, 2013, the Inspection Panel received a Request for Inspection (hereafter
         “the Request?) related to the Kenya: Natural Resource Management Project (NRMP or
         “the Project?). The Request was sent by individuals from Sengwer communities who
         “live and represent others who live? in the following four areas of the Cherangany Hills

1
  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Resolution IBRD 93-10) and International Development
Association (Resolution 93-6), “The World Bank Inspection Panel?, September 22, 1993 (hereinafter “the
Resolution?), ¶. 19. Available at:
http://siteresources.worldbank.org/EXTINSPECTIONPANEL/Resources/ResolutionMarch2005.pdf
2
  “1999 Clarification of the Board’s Second Review of the Inspection Panel?, April 1999 (hereinafter “the 1999
Clarification?). Available at:
http://siteresources.worldbank.org/EXTINSPECTIONPANEL/Resources/1999ClarificationoftheBoard.pdf

                                                      1
         in the western highlands of Kenya, namely the Kapolet Forest (in Trans-Nzoia District),
         Talau and Kaipos (in West Pokot District), and Empoput 3 Forest (in Marakwet District).
         The Requesters have asked that their identities be kept confidential.

    4.   The Panel registered the Request and notified the Board and Management on January 30,
         2013. Management submitted the Management Response on March 15, 2013 4 , after
         requesting an extension of the original submission deadline.

    5.   The Panel’s Report and Recommendation was originally due on April 15, 2013 and the
         Panel had initially scheduled its visit to Kenya in mid-March. However, due to general
         elections taking place in Kenya in early March, the World Bank Country Office, through
         the Kenya Emergency Management Team, decided to suspend all missions to Kenya and
         subsequently to restrict them to essential missions. In light of this, the Panel delayed its
         visit and requested a postponement of its deadline for the completion of the Report and
         Recommendation until May 24, 2013.

B.       The Project

    6.   The NRMP is a Specific Investment Loan (SIL) approved by the Board on March 27,
         2007. It became effective in December 2007 shortly before the 2007 general elections,
         which delayed the start of implementation until April 2008. 5 The Project was restructured
         in 2011, as described below. At the time of the receipt of the Request, the Project was
         62.59% disbursed.

    7.   The original Project’s development objective (PDO) was to enhance “institutional
         capacity to manage water and forest resources, reduce the incidence and severity of
         water shocks such as drought, floods and water shortage in river catchments and
         improve the livelihoods of communities participating in the co-management of water and
         forest resources.? 6 The Project provide for four components: 1) Water Resources
         Management and Irrigation; 2) Management of Forest Resources; 3) Livelihood
         Investments in Upper Tana Catchment, and 4) Management and Monitoring and
         Evaluation.

    8.   Component 2 – Management of Forest Resources – is the subject of the Request. This
         component, in its original conception, sought to operationalize the newly enacted Forest
         Act of 2005 by assisting in creating a transparent and accountable regulatory and
         institutional framework in forest resources management, from an exclusive Government
         conservation model to joint management with local communities and the private sector.
         Among the subcomponents were: supporting activities to transform the Forest
         Department into an accountable and semi-autonomous Kenya Forest Service (KFS) with

3
  “Empoput forest? is also referred to as “Embobut?. Both terms are used in this Report.
4
  Management Response to Request for Inspection Panel Review of the Kenya: Natural Resource Management
Project (P095050), dated March 8, 2013.
5
  Management Response, ¶ 10.
6
  Financing Agreement, (Natural Resource Management Project) between Republic of Kenya and International
Development Association, dated May 7, 2007 Credit No. 4277-KE, Schedule 1.

                                                      2
            training, sensitization, equipment etc.; identifying partnership models for community
            participation and benefit sharing in the forest sector; realigning and demarcating
            boundaries in selected gazetted forests; supporting the effective implementation of the
            Resettlement Policy Framework and developing and implementing Resettlement Action
            Plans. 7 An Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework (IPPF) was developed because of
            the presence of Ogiek and Sengwer Indigenous Peoples in the Project areas (Mount
            Elgon and the Cherangany Hills, respectively) to ensure that they would not be adversely
            affected by the Project and measures would be developed to mitigate potential impacts.
            Management states in the Management Response that the original Project Appraisal
            Document (PAD) and the Financing Agreement do not refer to the Cherangany Hills as a
            Project area. However, given that the area was included in the IPPF “the Bank took the
            position that it was part of the Project intervention area.? 8

    9.      On June 10, 2011, the Project was restructured and the development objective was
            redefined to: “improve the management of water and forest resources in selected
            districts.? 9 Among other things, the restructuring revised and simplified the Project
            Development Objectives, revised the results framework, and reallocated around 21
            percent of Project funds. The restructuring also formalized the fact that the Cherangany
            Hills were part of the Project area and this allowed the reallocation of fund towards
            implementation of activities in that area.

    10.     Management states that the restructuring allowed adjusting Project outcomes to those that
            could realistically be achieved during the life of the Project. With the restructuring
            Management acknowledged that resolving comprehensive land issues was beyond the
            remit of the Project, and thus clarified to the Board that the Project “would not be able to
            implement the land related commitments, i.e. 1) hasten the provision of titles for land
            presently occupied and used by the communities in the Project areas including support
            for necessary steps, such as land survey, demarcation and registration of titles; 2)
            establish a comprehensive strategy to rehabilitate livelihoods of evicted people to the
            level of December 2002; and 3) offer assistance within the land restitution process to
            indigenous peoples to claim all lands over which they have lost control between 1895 and
            2002?. 10

         11. Through the restructuring Management states that three enhancements were introduced:
             1) assist the Government to implement a livelihood and rural development program
             focused on indigenous peoples and forest communities through Project-financed
             Vulnerable and Marginalized Group Plans (VMGPs); 2) provide technical assistance for
             a strategy to improve forest management “to cover integration of guidelines for
             vulnerable and marginalized communities? and 3) strengthen the decentralized structure
             of community forest associations and other local groups. 11 The restructuring also called
             for the update of the Process Framework (PF) and the preparation of the VMGPs. The

7
  Financing Agreement, Schedule 1.
8
  Management Response, ¶ 31.
9
  Amendment to Financing Agreement, July 7, 2011, ¶ 1.
10
   Management Response, ¶ 28.
11
   Management Response, ¶ 13.

                                                         3
         restructuring paper thus states that “in accordance with the IPPF, the restructured project
         will support preparation and implementation of what would be equivalent to IPPs in
         Kenya, called Vulnerable and Marginalized Group Plans (VMGPs).? 12

     12. Financing and Implementation Arrangement. The Project is financed by an IDA
         Credit in an amount equivalent to forty six million Special Drawing Rights (SDR
         46,000,000) (around USD 68.5 million). It is scheduled to close on June 30, 2013. The
         Project is implemented through the Ministry of Water and Irrigation and the Ministry of
         Environment and Natural Resources. The Forest Resources Component is managed by
         KFS which appointed a National Project Coordinator.

C.       The Request

     13. What follows is a summary of the allegations included in the written Request received by
         the Panel. The full Request is attached to this Report as Annex I.

     14. The Requesters state that they have suffered harm as a result of the Bank’s “failures and
         omissions? in the Project. The alleged harms are described below.

     15. According to the Request, KFS has burned over 500 houses and property in Empoput
         forest since 2007 in the process of carrying out forceful evictions. The Requesters state
         that the Empoput forest is part of the ancestral land of the Sengwer people as an ethnic
         minority hunter-gatherer people. They state that the Government planned to resettle the
         Sengwer from Empoput forest without carrying out free, prior informed consultations and
         that these resettlement plans “go against World Bank Operational Policy 4.12 on
         involuntary resettlement.?

     16. In addition, KFS arrested in 2009 45 Sengwer people in the Kapolet forest because of
         illegal farming in the forest without permits. The Requesters state that the Kapolet forest
         has been Sengwer ancestral home since “time immemorial?, although the British
         government had the forest gazetted “through discriminatory forest preservation policies
         [that] led to forceful eviction and displacement of Sengwer families [...]? When the guards
         entered the forest to make these arrests they also shot at people and one woman was hit in
         the back and later treated at the Kitale district hospital. This dispute between Sengwer
         people and KFS staff in Kapolet arose as a result of an historical land dispute. The
         Request indicates that the British Government first recognized that Sengwer people lived
         in the forest by creating an administrative unit called Kipsirat, but later gazetted this part
         of the forest and evicted the Sengwer residing there. In 1997, according to the Request,

12
  Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of the Natural Resource Management Project, approved
March 27, 2007, to the Republic of Kenya, June 10, 2011 (hereinafter “Project Paper?). The Project Paper adds that
“given particularities with respect to the term Indigenous Peoples in Kenya, the new Constitution of Kenya uses the
term ‘vulnerable and marginalized groups’ (VMGs). Since adoption of the Constitution in 2010, the GoK
[Government of Kenya] has requested that project instruments related to the implementation of OP 4.10 use the
constitutionally-sanctioned terminology. OP 4.10 contemplates that different terminology may be applied in
different countries without affecting the application or substance of the policy. It states: ‘Indigenous Peoples may be
referred to in different countries by such terms as indigenous ethnic minorities; aboriginals, hill tribes, minority
nationalities, scheduled tribes, or tribal groups.’?

                                                          4
   the President of Kenya “directed the provincial administration to settle members of
   Sengwer community on Kapolet forest? and divided this settlement in two phases. Phase I
   according to the Request involved 489 families that were settled in Kapolet, though no
   legal documents have been issued yet.

17. The Requesters state that Phase II and the demarcation of Sengwer land was stopped so
    97 Sengwer families who were to be settled under Phase II moved to the land they
    thought belonged to them but were arrested and charged with encroachment in the forest.
    The Request indicates that this case related to arrested community members is pending in
    the Kitale Courts since 2009 and has cost the communities hundreds of thousands of
    Kenya Shillings in legal fees and other expenses.

18. The Requesters also argue that the Bank violated its policies by adopting the use of the
    term “Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups? instead of “Indigenous Peoples? without
    carrying out free, prior informed consultations with the people. This, they claim, is a
    violation of the indigenous people’s rights as stipulated in international treaties and in the
    Bank policy on Indigenous Peoples, OP 4.10.

19. The Requesters also believe that the IPPF prepared under the Project should be
    implemented but they were told by Kenyan authorities that it is merely a Memorandum of
    Understanding.

20. Further the Requesters feel that the Bank has not carried out its supervisory obligations
    even when the rights of the Sengwer were being violated. They state that they have
    written a number of letters to the Bank and had meetings with Bank staff but were not
    satisfied by the explanations.

21. The Request concludes with a number of recommendations including; that the
    Government recognizes the rights of the Sengwer to live in their ancestral home in
    Kapolet and Empoput forest, and that it compensates the families whose houses and
    property were destroyed, and those who were arrested in Kapolet and the woman who
    was shot. They also recommend that the Government recognizes the use of the term
    “indigenous peoples? as it did during Project preparation and that the Bank suspends
    funding for the REDD program to the Government until thee violations noted above are
    addressed.

   D.      The Management Response

22. A summary of Management Response follows, and a copy is attached to this Report as
    Annex II.

23. Management does not believe that non compliance by the Bank has caused harm to the
    Requesters and notes that the incidents described in the Request were not caused or
    aggravated by the Project nor supported by it. Rather the complaints are aimed towards
    the GoK and related to issues beyond the Project. Management believes that, in a very
    difficult context and sector with many operational challenges, the Bank has helped to

                                              5
        address issues raised by the Requesters and has worked with the stakeholders to support a
        solution to such issues.

     24. In general, Management notes that the Project has been “challenging from the outset and
         is characterized by tension over historic land issues, longstanding grievances of
         indigenous communities and unresolved conflicts between those communities and the
         Kenya Forest Service (KFS)?. 13 It adds that, because the original Project design was
         “overly ambitious? with respect to resolving land and forest conflicts, after the
         restructuring there have been difficulties in distinguishing between project activities and
         activities outside the scope of the Project, and the boundaries of the Bank’s safeguard
         obligations have become at times blurred. In fact, the Response claims that many
         complaints including in the Request go beyond the Project and should be directed to the
         GoK and are not related to the Project, including the evictions incidents described in the
         Request, which, according to Management, occurred before the Project became
         operational. Nevertheless, Management also acknowledges that the Project’s IPPF “may
         have raised unrealistic expectations? that “may have contributed to the Request for
         Inspection.? 14

     25. Land rights issues. The Response notes that the Sengwer people have asserted ancestral
         rights to live and use the forest without restrictions, while successive governments have
         prioritized the protection of forests by gazetting them. This has created conflicts that have
         intensified in recent years with an increasing pressure on Kenya’s forests. Many evictions
         of Sengwer people from the forests were carried out since 1980s. Management adds that
         during this period there has been an “emerging recognition by both the Government and
         the Sengwer that a permanent solution to this problem will require the resettlement of
         forest-dwelling Sengwer to suitable land outside the gazetted forest,? 15 albeit with an
         agreement on rules regarding access to forests. Management notes that attempts to find
         these solutions have so far stalled.

     26. The Response states that the policy and legal framework changed in recent years with the
         enactment of the Forest Act in 2005 and of the National Land Policy, which are more
         conducive to solving the land issues. The Response indicates that the Project was
         originally designed in this context to support the resolution of land issues as it is
         described in the IPPF and the PAD through participatory boundary demarcation,
         clarification of land claims, support for resettlement and assistance to develop a National
         Resettlement Policy. However, as Project implementation started, it became clear,
         according to Management, that some of these activities, especially those related to
         solving land rights issues, were “far too ambitious? 16 and beyond the scope and time
         frame of the NRM Project. The restructuring of the Project, therefore, defined what kind
         of contributions the Project could realistically make to the larger agenda, and included
         activities such as the development of the VMGPs, capacity building and sensitization of
         KFS staff and establishment of the grievance redress mechanism.

13
   Management Response, p. viii.
14
   Management Response, p. viii.
15
   Management Response, ¶ 20.
16
   Management Response, ¶ 22.

                                                  6
     27. Following the elections in 2007, the situation worsened because a number of people
         displaced by post-election violence found refuge in the gazetted forests, including the
         Cherangany Hills, putting a further strain on natural resources, in particular by reducing
         water flows in critical water bodies.

     28. Application of OP 4.10. The Response states that the policy on Indigenous Peoples was
         triggered with respect Component 2 of the Project because of the presence of Sengwer
         and Ogiek people in the Project area. 17 An IPPF was developed in 2006 to ensure that
         communities would not be adversely affected by the Project and measures would be
         developed to mitigate potential impacts. Management acknowledges that the IPPF “posed
         several implementation challenges? as it included activities that were beyond the scope of
         the project, would have required multi-agency interventions and were not realistically
         implementable during Project time. Management indicates that three commitments
         included in the IPPF were not implementable under the Project: 1) hasten the provision of
         titles for land presently occupied and used by the communities in the Project areas
         including support for necessary steps, such as land survey, demarcation and registration
         of titles; 2) establish a comprehensive strategy to rehabilitate livelihoods of evicted
         people to the level of December 2002; and 3) offer assistance within the land restitution
         process to indigenous peoples to claim all lands over which they have lost control
         between 1895 and 2002. Management states that “[t]hese measures while desirable on
         their own account, were not related to the mitigation of anticipated Project impacts.? 18

     29. The Project, as restructured in 2011, would however remain committed to developing
         Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups Plans (VMGPs) 19 (equivalent to Indigenous
         Peoples Development Plans – IPPs) to address livelihood needs based on free, prior
         informed consultations. A Process Framework to address restriction of access to forests
         and use of forest products was also developed. Management indicates that in
         consultations it was clarified that the PF would not address land and resettlement issues.

     30. Community Representation. Management states that some of the difficulties
         encountered by the Project related to “a lack of clarity as to the nature of community
         representation and uncertainty as to how communities as a whole view the status of a
         number of NGO leaders who claim to speak on their behalf.? 20 The Response refers to a
         group called “Elite and Professional Group? who has sent several letters of complaints to
         the Bank allegedly on behalf of communities. Management also states that when Bank
         staff sought to validate the Elite Group’s complaints with the communities, these were


17
   Management Response, ¶ 27. As noted above, Management states in the Management Response that the original
Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and the Financing Agreement do not refer to the Cherangany Hills as a Project
area. However, given that the area was included in the IPPF the Bank took the position that it was part of the Project
intervention area and formalized this position with the Project restructuring.
18
   Management Response, ¶ 28.
19
   Activities eligible under the livelihood program and detailed in the VMGPs include CDD-type of activities, such
as livestock breeding, bee keeping, poultry keeping, fish farming etc.). This builds on the Social Assessment
undertaken in 2010. Management indicates that the VMGPs supersede the IPPF in the areas they cover.
20
   Management Response, ¶ 33.

                                                          7
          not aware of them. In addition, some of the members of this group have been elected into
          the Project vulnerable and marginalized groups coordination committees, the VMGCCs.

      31. According to Management, one concern of this Elite Group is the change from
          “indigenous peoples? to “vulnerable and marginalized groups? (VGM) used in Project
          documents. The change was introduced to use terminology consistent with the new
          constitution of Kenya, Management maintains, but the use of this term does not diminish
          the benefits and protection available under OP 4.10 who still applies to the Project.

      32. Evictions. Management indicates that it has viewed with concern the reports of evictions
          brought to its attention and responded with diligence. Though evictions were not caused
          by the Project nor the Project supported any evictions, when it became aware of these
          incidents Management carried out field verifications, and worked with Government and
          affected parties to prevent such occurrences and secured a commitment from the GoK to
          refrain from further evictions that are not consistent with Government’s obligations under
          safeguard instruments. 21

      33. Evictions from Embobut forest April/May 2009. When the Bank learned of the eviction
          of 450 families in April/May 2009 it requested information from KFS and received a
          letter from the community. Management notes that these evictions were not part of NRM
          activities and were the result of Government action in response to an ongoing dispute
          over water resources between communities living downstream from Embobut and those
          living in the forest. The GoK established an Embobut Task Force in June 2009 – not
          financed by the NRMP, Management notes – to help finding a solution for the evictees.
          The Task Force identified three categories of people living in Embobut: Sengwer and
          other groups, landslide victims from the 1960s and permit holders/associates. Those
          identified as eligible for resettlement were allowed to return to the forest (inside the areas
          known as glades) pending a final settlement but had to respect a number of restrictions
          inside the forest.

      34. Burning of housing in Embobut July/August 2010. Management states that in September
          2009 Sengwer representatives informed the Bank that Sengwer people’s houses and
          property in Embobut had been destroyed. KFS and affected people’s account of the
          situation were different but both confirmed the burning of the dwellings. This prompted
          the Bank to write to the GoK to request “that the Government comply with social
          safeguard documents and refrain from carrying out or planning any evictions without
          following due process? as “non compliance could result in remedial action by the
          Bank? 22. Management also sent its own Fact Finding Mission, which found an unclear
          situation on the ground, but confirmed that the properties were inside the glades, rather
          than in the forest. KFS later indicated that these burning had been carried out by
          unauthorized individual KFS staff.




21
     Management Response, ¶ 59.
22
     Management Response, ¶ 67.

                                                    8
     35. In December 2010, under the proposal for the Project restructuring, Management stressed
         the need for a moratorium on eviction. 23 The Government confirmed in April 2011 that
         “there would be no evictions until alternative settlement was found? and some authorized
         persons, including Sengwer, could have access to the forest. 24 With respect to this
         incident, burning of houses, Management also notes that community members did not
         express interest in seeking compensation, rather in participating in livelihood activities
         under the VMGPs prepared under the NRM. They also expressed, according to
         Management, the willingness to be “voluntarily and permanently resettled by the
         Government?. 25

     36. Actions against alleged forest encroachers in Kapolet in 2009. The Response states that
         in 2008 Sengwer community members constructed houses and started farming activities
         in Kapolet forest, as they allegedly felt that “this part of the forest should have been sub-
         divided and given to them for settlement and for use without any restrictions.? 26 KFS
         indicated to the Bank that evictions were carried out to prevent encroachment in Kapolet
         forest, which is a gazetted forest and thus neither living nor cultivating of crops in it is
         allowed. During the evictions, 41 members of the communities were arrested and a
         Sengwer woman was shot. Management states that it requested documentary evidence to
         verify these facts but the community could not provide any evidence, and Management
         was not able to meet the shot woman in spite of various attempts. According to
         Management, the matter is currently in court and the Kenyan judicial system is the
         appropriate forum for deciding such matters.

     37. Resettlement. Management emphasizes that “no resettlement has been planned or
         financed under the NRMP in Cherangany Hills or in any other forested areas in the
         Project area. As a consequence, NRMP has not supported the preparation of resettlement
         plans under the forest component, as erroneously asserted in the Request.? 27

     38. According to Management Response, when the Requesters refers to resettlement
         responsibility of the NRM project in the Project area, they may be referring to plans of
         the Ministry of State for Special Programs (MSSP) to carry out resettlement in
         Cherangany Hills as part of the resettlement of Internally Displaced Peoples (IDPs). This
         resettlement, Management asserts, is not financed by the NRM nor does it involve the
         KFS. Management also indicates that Sengwer people living in Embobut, who have been
         living in very difficult circumstances for years, are waiting for an “appropriate and
         consensual resettlement solution?, but they understand that it is independent of the
         NRMP. 28




23
   Management Response, ¶ 69
24
   Management Response, ¶ 71.
25
   Management Response, ¶ 72.
26
   Management Response, ¶ 77.
27
   Management Response, ¶ 81.
28
   Management Response, ¶ 83.

                                                  9
      39. Management acknowledges that the original Project design provided for the Project to
          have a direct role in planning and implementing resettlement of those who lived in the
          gazetted forests or had been subject of evictions but at the time of restructuring it
          recognized and indicated to the Board that this approach to resettlement was overly
          ambitious and not implementable under the Project.

      40. Though the Project decided that it could not directly support the resettlement,
          Management chose to support an Inter-ministerial Task Force on Land and Legacy
          Issues, including indigenous groups as members, which would look at the land rights
          issues, and to support a Management-initiated dispute resolution approach.

      41. Grievance Redress. The Response states that two approaches for grievance redress were
          adopted: a Project-level Grievance Redress Mechanism (GRM) established and managed
          by KFS and a Management-initiated broader dispute resolution approach parallel to
          KFS’s GRM and managed by the Bank.

      42. The Project-level GRM, described in the PF, has been active since May 2011. It is
          designed to address complaints quickly and at the lowest possible level. Management
          states that this GRM is based on ideas and opinions of affected people and was developed
          through consultations that involved 1500 Sengwer and Ogiek people. Its aim is to address
          claims related to the NRMP implementation.

      43. The Management-initiated dispute resolution approach goes beyond the scope of the
          NRM, Management states. A “trusted external mediator to support Project stakeholders
          in resolving disputes? 29 was involved. This dispute resolution approach supported a
          Regional Consultation Workshop that took place in Nakuru in March 2012 with the aim
          of understanding key concerns of the indigenous communities and discuss opportunities
          to address long standing issues. The result of this workshop was a collective action plan
          being implemented by all stakeholder groups. Following the workshop, the mediator held
          a series of meetings in four communities.


E.        Panel Review of the Request and Management Response

      44. Chairperson Eimi Watanabe together with Executive Secretary Peter Lallas, and Senior
          Operations Officer Tatiana Tassoni visited Kenya on May 9-14, 2013. During its visit,
          the Panel team met with the Requesters and other affected community members in the
          Kapolet and Empoput forests. It also met with Government officials of the Ministry of
          Finance and of the National Treasury, Water and Natural Resources. Further, the Panel
          had two meetings with officials of the Kenya Forest Service. The first meeting in Eldoret,
          with local officers of the KFS involved in NRM activities. The second meeting took
          place in Nairobi where the Panel team met with the Director of KFS and the NRM
          National Coordinator.


29
     Management Response, ¶ 46.

                                                 10
45. The Panel wishes to express its appreciation to all those mentioned above for sharing
    their views and exchanging information and insights with the Panel. The Panel also
    wishes to thank the Government of Kenya and the Kenya Forest Service for meeting with
    the Panel team. The Panel extends its thanks to the Requesters and other affected people
    who met with the Panel team, and to the present and former Country Directors and staff
    in the Country Office in Nairobi for meeting with the Panel team, discussing the issues
    and providing relevant information, and assisting with logistical arrangements.

46. The Panel’s review is based on information presented in the Request, on the Management
    Response, on other documentary evidence, and on information gathered during the site
    visit, and meetings with Requesters and other affected people, and Bank Management.
    This review covers the Panel’s determination of the technical eligibility of the Request,
    according to the criteria set forth in the 1999 Clarification (subsection 1), and
    observations on other factors supporting the Panel’s recommendation (subsection 2).

   1) Determination of Technical Eligibility

47. The Panel is satisfied that the Request meets all six technical eligibility criteria provided
    for in paragraph 9 of the 1999 Clarifications.

48. The Panel notes that its confirmation of technical eligibility, which is a set of verifiable
    facts focusing to a large extent on the content of the Request as articulated by the
    Requesters, does not involve the Panel’s assessment of the substance of the claims made
    in the Request.

49. Criterion (a): “The affected party consists of any two or more persons with common
    interests or concerns and who are in the borrower’s territory.? The Panel confirms that
    the Requesters live in the borrower’s territory and share interests that may be affected by
    Project activities. The Panel considers the requirement of paragraph 9(a) as met.

50. Criterion (b): “The request does assert in substance that a serious violation by the Bank
    of its operational policies and procedures has or is likely to have a material adverse
    effect on the requester.? The Request asserts that failure and omissions of the Bank in the
    implementation of the NRM have caused them harm. They claim that as a result of the
    Project activities the rights of the Sengwer people, hunter gatherers living in the
    Cherangany Hills have been violated. They allege that under the Project, dwellings and
    property of Sengwer people living in the Empoput forest, which according to the
    Sengwer is their ancestral home land, have been burned and destroyed. The Requesters
    add that in Kapolet forest KFS staff, Project implementer, evicted Sengwer people and
    arrested community members. The Requesters also claim that the change in terminology
    from indigenous peoples to vulnerable and marginalized groups is in violation of Bank
    policies and has caused them harm. The Requesters state that Project activities were
    carried out without free prior informed consultations of the affected indigenous peoples.
    The Panel is thus satisfied that the requirement of paragraph 9(b) is met.




                                             11
51. Criterion (c): “The request does assert that its subject matter has been brought to
    Management's attention and that, in the Requester’s view, Management has failed to
    respond adequately demonstrating that it has followed or is taking steps to follow the
    Bank’s policies and procedures.? The Requesters brought the issues they raise in the
    Request for Inspection to the prior attention of the Bank Management in a number of
    letters and meetings with members of the Project’s Task Team over the course of a
    couple of years. The Requesters believe that the Bank’s responses to their complaints do
    not address their issues adequately. The Panel is satisfied that this criterion has been met.

52. Criterion (d): “The matter is not related to procurement.? The Panel is satisfied that the
    claims with respect to harm and non-compliance included in the Request for Inspection
    do not raise issues of procurement under the Project and hence this criterion is met.

53. Criterion (e): “The related loan has not been closed or substantially disbursed.? At the
    time of receipt of the Request for Inspection, the loan was about 63% disbursed.

54. Criterion (f): “The Panel has not previously made a recommendation on the subject
    matter or, if it has, that the request does assert that there is new evidence or
    circumstances not known at the time of the prior request.? The Panel confirms that it has
    not previously made a recommendation on the subject matter of the Request.

   2) Observations on Other Factors Supporting the Panel’s Recommendation

55. In making its recommendation to the Board, the Panel also considers whether there is a
    plausible causal link between the Project and the harm alleged in the Request, and
    whether alleged harm and non-compliance may be potentially of a serious character. The
    Panel records its observations on these elements below, noting that the Panel can only
    make a definitive assessment of the Bank’s compliance with its policies and procedures,
    and any adverse material effect this may have caused, through an investigation. The
    Panel also takes into account statements of any remedial actions provided by
    Management to address the matters raised in the Request.

56. The Panel fully appreciates the importance of this Project, which aims to address the
    critical issue of water scarcity in Kenya by conserving the country’s five “water towers?
    – i.e. the mountain forests from where its main rivers originate. The Project is being
    implemented in the context of Kenya’s exponential population growth, from just over 3
    million in 1932 when forests were first gazetted by the then Colonial government, to just
    under 9 million at Independence in 1962, to the current 41 million, among the highest
    growth rates in the world. The Panel appreciates that this has put tremendous pressure on
    natural resources, including forests and critical water catchment areas.

57. The Panel also recognizes that this pressure has intensified the vulnerability of
    communities who have traditionally depended on the forests for their livelihood.
    Members of Sengwer communities described to the Panel how they have lost access to
    much of their ancestral lands, and they continue to face severe pressures not only on their



                                             12
         land but on their culture and identity as a people. 30 They also highlighted to the Panel
         their belief that the recognition of their customary rights should be seen as an important
         means to support the conservation objectives of the Project, as they traditionally as a
         people have helped to protect and take care of the forests on which they depend.

     58. In this context, the Panel notes the challenging nature of the Project environment
         including inherent conflicts and tensions over land involving indigenous and local
         communities who are both poor and vulnerable. For its part, Management described this
         situation during Project preparation in the PAD, stating that “… ‘encroachment' of
         certain forest areas and the process for reclaiming these areas has aggravated the
         already tense relationship between encroachers and the Government, and made
         enforcement challenging?. 31

     59. The Request has to be understood in the context of these challenges, namely how the
         Project has addressed adverse impacts on forest dwellers in its efforts to strengthen the
         protection of forest catchment areas. Such impacts can be forced eviction and/or
         restrictions in access to forest resources. Of importance in this case, is the recognition at
         the outset of the Project that some of the forest dwellers – or ‘encroachers’ – are
         ‘indigenous people’ with customary rights to land and resources in Project areas,
         including Sengwer communities. In this context, the Request raises two key claims,
         namely that some Sengwer have been forcibly evicted in violation of Bank policy, and
         that there has been lack of recognition of Sengwer customary rights in execution of the
         Project. Set forth below are the Panel’s observations on these two core issues of potential
         harm and non-compliance, including whether there are plausible links between the
         Project and the alleged harm.


i)       The issue of evictions and resettlement

     60. The Requesters state that “... discriminatory forest preservation policies led to forceful
         eviction and displacement of Sengwer families from the forest (Kapolet) and having the
         forest gazetted as government forest.? During its eligibility visit, members of the Kapolet
         community elaborated on these claims. They claimed, in meeting with the Panel team,
         that during Project implementation surveyors came to their lands but failed properly to
         demarcate all the lands that rightfully belong to the community. Subsequently, they
         contended that 45 members of their community were arrested and charged with
         encroachment on land which the community believes should be recognized as theirs
         under the second phase of demarcation, which has not yet occurred.

30
   The Project IPPF provides background information on the Sengwer. It states that they are former hunter-gatherers
who live in certain Districts in and around the Cherangany Hills, and describes their history, livelihoods and current
living conditions in the “operational areas? (i.e., the areas where the project will become active), including their
increased dependence on farming and livestock rearing, but on a limited scale so that it provides incomes of only
about one-third of other rural Kenyan households, and lack of political representation. See Indigenous Peoples
Planning Framework for the Western Kenya Community Driven Development and Flood Mitigation Project and the
Natural Resource Management Project (IPPF), Final Report December 2006, pp. 23-29.
31
   Project Appraisal Document (PAD) on a Proposed Credit in the amount of SDR 46.0 million (US$ 68.5 million
equivalent) to the Government of Kenya for a Natural Resource Management Project, February 26, 2007, p. 13.

                                                         13
     61. Furthermore, the Requesters claim that in Empoput forest, Sengwer houses have been
         burned and property destroyed in several consecutive years during the implementation of
         the Project. According to the Requesters, over 500 houses were burnt, property was
         destroyed (food grains, house utensils, beddings, school books, etc.), and 41 members of
         the community were arrested. During its eligibility visit, the Panel team met Sengwer
         community members in Empoput forest who have been temporarily settled in seven
         glades within the forest area. The Panel met them at a gathering place in one of the forest
         glades. Community members described in detail to the Panel’s team instances of forced
         evictions that the community has faced. They informed the team that the latest incident
         of burning of houses occurred in April 2013. 32 The Panel was told that community
         members currently living in the glades are awaiting resettlement into areas outside the
         Empoput Forest under a program of the Ministry of Special Programmes. The Request
         claims that “KFS/NRM Project and Ministry of Special Programmes made plans to
         resettle Sengwer families living in Empoput Forest without carrying effective and
         efficient free prior and informed consultations?.

     62. Management responds that it “… has viewed with concern reports of evictions and
         recently proposed resettlement that have been brought to its attention during Project
         implementation, and has responded diligently to those reports?. This involved “carrying
         out field verifications, notifying Government of its obligations under Project safeguard
         instruments, and working with both Government and affected parties to prevent
         recurrences, including securing a fresh commitment from the GoK to refrain from further
         evictions that are not consistent with those obligations.? 33

     63. However, Management states that “any harm that may have stemmed from these evictions
         was not caused by the Project, nor has the Project supported such evictions?.
         Management acknowledges that at the time of Project design, it was anticipated that
         NRMP would play a more direct role in the planning and implementation of resettlement
         of Project beneficiaries who resided in gazetted forests or had been subject to eviction,
         but emphasizes that “no resettlement has been planned or financed under the NRMP in
         Cherangany Hills or in any other forested areas in the Project area.? 34 As a consequence,
         Management states that NRMP has not supported the preparation of resettlement plans
         under the forest component, as erroneously asserted in the Request.

     64. Panel’s review. The Panel observes that the original Project documentation addressed
         impacts and risks that may result from Project activities, and possible mitigation
         measures. The Project’s Environmental and Social Management Framework noted that
         the types of measures under the Project that could trigger the policy on Indigenous
         Peoples included “changes in rights to access to forest areas on which indigenous
         peoples rely on, or resettlement of indigenous peoples residing in environmentally


32
   The Panel team was informed differently by the country office staff about this incident, that the people whose
houses were burnt were not Sengwer.
33
   Management Response, ¶ 59.
34
   Management Response, ¶ 84.

                                                         14
         sensitive areas to another location?. 35 The original PAD indicated that to address
         difficulties due to “encroachment? of certain forest areas, “… the project will provide
         financial resources for compensation and/or resettlement, conflict mitigation approaches
         and assisting such households with alternative livelihoods.? Taking note of earlier
         evictions, the PAD also stated that the Project took it upon itself “… to assist the
         Government to address the resettlement issues in the project’s area of influence.? 36

     65. The Panel further notes that Project documents presented for the Project Restructuring in
         2011 also address the risk of evictions and the possibility of “relocation? of forest
         dwellers. The Project Paper noted that “[a]lthough the GoK has assured the Bank that no
         evictions and relocations will take place until applicable safeguards instruments
         satisfactory to the Bank (including a Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups Plan, Process
         Framework and where displacement is envisaged a Resettlement Action Plan), have been
         developed and disclosed, there is still the risk that evictions may occur?. 37 The
         Integrated Safeguards Data sheet at Restructuring indicated that when relocation and
         displacement are to be undertaken, the RPF provides the guidelines for development of
         Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs).

     66. The Panel also notes that one of the activities planned under the Project is “[r]ealigning
         and demarcating boundaries in selected gazetted forests?. 38 This component was not
         changed when the Project was restructured. The Panel further notes that boundary
         demarcation activities will “include development of biophysical, social and legal criteria for
         determining what areas remain gazetted forests and which are degazetted?. 39 The Panel
         considers that this determination may in turn have an impact on the rights of people living
         inside the demarcated boundaries or in other ways depend on the forests for their
         livelihood, including their customary rights. It may also raise the possibility of taking
         actions to resettle those living within the forest boundaries.

     67. The Panel views positively that Management took a number of actions when they began
         to receive news of forcible evictions and burning of houses. For example, Management
         action led to the Government issuing a moratorium on evictions in Empoput until a
         permanent solution is found, and to an assurance that some authorized communities,
         including Sengwer people, can have access to the forest. In recognition of the increasing
         prominence of conflicts over access to and use of forest land, the Panel further notes
         Management’s support to the Government Inter-ministerial Task Force on Land and
         Legacy Issues, to provide a more solid foundation for a resolution of these issues.




35
   See Environmental and Social Management Framework for the Western Kenya Community-driven Development
and Flood Mitigation Project, and the Natural Resources Management Project, Final Report, July 20, 2006, p. 32.
36
   PAD, 20.
37
   Project Paper, ¶ 36 (Risks). See also ¶ 31 where it states, in relation to the Project’s environmental categorization,
that in spite of the complexities in addressing issues related to the indigenous peoples, “and possibly, involuntary
resettlement, a change in category is not considered warranted at this time?.
38
   Financing Agreement, Schedule 1.
39
   PAD, p. 41.

                                                           15
      68. Management states that incidents of burning of houses in Empoput in 2010 prompted the
          Bank to write to the GoK to request “that the Government comply with social safeguard
          documents and refrain from carrying out or planning any evictions without following due
          process? as “non compliance could result in remedial action by the Bank?. 40 The MoF
          responded by instructing the line ministries responsible for implementing the NRMP to
          comply with the requirements set forth in the Bank’s letter. This indicates that the manner
          in which resettlement of forest dwellers is carried out is a matter of policy compliance
          under the Project.

      69. The Panel further notes that the Project has also provided support to the KFS to build
          their capacity, including sensitization training, and to advise them on carrying out their
          duties. This has included support for actions to address and resolve land use issues and
          possible encroachment within demarcated forest lands. During its field visit, the Panel
          heard from government authorities who confirmed their understanding that Bank
          safeguard policies applied to activities relating to the relocation of affected communities
          living within forest areas covered by the Project, including those in Kapolet and Empoput
          forests. The authorities also described an evolution in their approach to addressing the
          issues of relocation and land use rights during the years of the Project, reflecting on the
          importance of both the conservation objectives of the Project (especially in light of the
          serious issues of water scarcity) and the objectives of addressing the rights of the affected
          peoples and communities.

      70. The Panel further heard conflicting accounts of what is happening in the field under the
          Project, including an incident concerning the burning of houses in April 2013. People the
          Panel met in Empoput expressed concern about continuing evictions and burnings of their
          homes. In Kapolet forest, the Panel has received conflicting information about the extent
          to which realigning and/or demarcating boundaries has occurred under the Project, and
          may have been a trigger for actions to move or resettle Sengwer people residing inside
          those boundaries. The Panel was also informed that land for resettlement of the Empoput
          communities has already been purchased. During its meeting in Empoput forest,
          however, community members did not seem to be aware of critical information and facts
          in relation to this process.

      71. The Requesters state that they feel that the Bank failed to carry out its supervisory role.
          They are particularly concerned about actions that occurred during the initial years of
          project implementation, and state that even after Management intervened to seek a
          moratorium on evictions the communities have continued to experience pressures and
          interventions which Management has not followed up on. The Panel notes that, in
          addition to the question of adequacy of supervision, OP 4.10 requires the Project to take
          measures not only to mitigate, minimize or compensate for adverse effects, but also to
          avoid potentially adverse effects on the indigenous peoples communities. The Policy also
          requires broad community support before any relocation takes place.

      72. In light of the above, the Panel considers there are plausible linkages between activities
          under the Project and the concerns of the people relating to eviction and resettlement.
40
     Management Response, ¶ 67.

                                                   16
          The Request raises serious issues as to whether Bank safeguard policies have been met in
          respect to these concerns, and whether any such non-compliance may result in material
          adverse effects for the affected people and communities.

ii)        The issue of customary rights

      73. The Requesters ask for the recognition, respect and protection of “the rights of Sengwer
          forest indigenous peoples to live within their ancestral homes in Kapolet and Empoput
          Forests.? They contend that actions taken during project implementation have failed to
          safeguard their customary rights in these forests, in non-compliance with Bank policy.
          They want the Project to ensure that Government recognizes the rights of the Sengwer to
          live in their ancestral home in Kapolet and Empoput forests.

      74. The Requesters consider that the original IPPF prepared for the Project was an important
          document in helping to shape the Project in a way that would recognize and protect the
          customary rights and access to natural resources of the Sengwer people. The team heard
          from the Requesters and other community members that when they first learned of the
          NRM Project and the IPPF, they had great hope that the Project will help them in finding
          a resolution to this fundamental issue of land in the forest areas in which the NRM was
          set to begin its work.

      75. Subsequently, according to the Requesters, the Project started going wrong, and did not
          adhere either to the IPPF or the safeguard policies which give them protection. In this
          context, the Requesters claim that it was improper under Bank policy to decide not to
          implement fully the IPPF when the Project was restructured. They believe that this has
          weakened their rights, and contend that this was done without prior consultation with the
          affected people, and without their broad community support, as required by OP 4.10 on
          Indigenous Peoples.

      76. Management in its Response explains that, with the restructuring, Project outcomes were
          adjusted and that this included “an acknowledgement that resolving the more
          comprehensive resolution of land issues was beyond the remit and time-horizon of the
          project and would need to be addressed as part of a the broader dialogue?. 41
          Furthermore, Management states that consultations in preparation of VMGPs in 2010
          “included explicit discussion and explanation of the fact that the Project would not be
          able to support the measures mentioned in the IPPF concerning the resolution of land
          rights?. 42

      77. The Restructuring Paper mentions that “[w]hile the project will make targeted
          contributions to these issues through the preparation of relevant safeguards instruments,
          a more comprehensive resolution of land issues will need to be addressed as part of the
          overall GoK - Bank dialogue. However, the restructuring will support the GoK through
          the testing of tools and instruments which would help to strengthen its capacity towards


41
     Management Response, ¶ 15.
42
     Management Response, ¶ 32.

                                                 17
            developing country systems to deal with these issues in the future?. 43 In addition, it is
            stated that the Project prepared a “Process Framework? to “determine an approach for
            management of sustainable forest uses by VMGs in and around the Cherangany Hills and
            Mt. Elgon areas?.

       78. Panel’s review. The Panel notes that the issue of indigenous peoples’ customary rights is
           a subject of Bank policy under OP 4.10. Paragraph 21 spells out requirements pertaining
           to situations such as protection of gazetted forest areas:
                   “In many countries, the lands set aside as legally designated parks and protected
                   areas may overlap with lands and territories that Indigenous Peoples
                   traditionally owned, or customarily used or occupied. The Bank recognizes the
                   significance of these rights of ownership, occupation, or usage, as well as the
                   need for long-term sustainable management of critical ecosystems. Therefore,
                   involuntary restrictions on Indigenous Peoples’ access to legally designated
                   parks and protected areas, in particular access to their sacred sites, should be
                   avoided. In exceptional circumstances, where it is not feasible to avoid restricting
                   access, the borrower prepares, with the free, prior, and informed consultation of
                   the affected Indigenous Peoples’ communities, a process framework in
                   accordance with the provisions of OP 4.12. The process framework provides
                   guidelines for preparation, during project implementation, of an individual parks
                   and protected areas’ management plan, and ensures that the Indigenous Peoples
                   participate in the design, implementation, monitoring, and evaluation of the
                   management plan, and share equitably in the benefits of the park's and protected
                   areas. The management plan should give priority to collaborative arrangements
                   that enable the Indigenous, as the custodians of the resources, to continue to use
                   them in an ecologically sustainable manner.?

       79. Accordingly, KFS developed a Process Framework for NRMP in Mount Elgon and
          Cherangany Hills in July 2011, further updated in February 2013. The objective of the
          Framework was to establish the process for the participation of Projected Affected
          Peoples in planning project components, determination of measures to achieve objectives,
          implementation and monitoring. The Framework also aimed to establish a grievance
          redress mechanism.

       80. The Panel met with community members currently living in the Empoput forest. During
           the discussions, the people informed the Panel of their reluctance to leave the forest
           glades, as they consider the forest as their homes, where they were born, as had their
           forefathers; they depend on the forest for honey, medicinal herbs, firewood, as well as
           for ritual purposes; the forest is where the spirits of their ancestors reside. They also
           informed the Panel team that if they are resettled in smaller groups in other areas
           surrounded by the dominant groups, they fear that they will not be able to maintain their
           identity as Sengwer people. The community members informed the Panel that their first
           wish is to remain where they are, but with security over land tenure. Some also stated that
           if they had to be resettled, their preference is to remain together as a community and be
           settled in an area adjacent to the forest. Some community members informed the Panel
43
     Project Paper, p. 4.

                                                    18
         that they have not been consulted about co-management of the forest, but if KFS comes
         to discuss it with them, they can help with the preservation of the forest provided land is
         set aside where they can settle permanently.

     81. Furthermore, the Requesters explained to the Panel team that the designation as
         Indigenous Peoples is important to them, as they wanted to be distinguished from other
         vulnerable and marginalized groups, some of whom may be more dominant groups living
         adjacent to them and may be claiming land in their territory. The Requesters feel that
         other communities should not benefit in the same way from the livelihood components,
         which, in their view, were designed for them. The Requesters claimed that a number of
         non-Sengwer were beneficiaries under the VMGP. 44 Further, according to the
         Requesters, being Indigenous Peoples in the Cherangany Hills means that this is their
         only home, whereas other, vulnerable and marginal peoples have homes elsewhere in
         Kenya. To them, the designation as Vulnerable and Marginalized Group critically severs
         their claim to their home territory and makes them indistinguishable from other groups.

     82. The Requesters concerns about customary rights of indigenous peoples affected by the
         NRMP and the approach taken by the Project raise two issues of potential serious non-
         compliance with Bank policy, namely with respect to whether the Project has adequately
         taken into account such rights, and the adequacy of consultation.

     83. Consideration of customary rights. The Panel fully appreciates the sensitivity of what
         constitutes Indigenous Peoples in Kenya.            The Panel has also taken note of
         Management’s statement that “the use of the term “VMGP? does not in any way diminish
         the benefits and protections available under the policy to the people who meet the
         eligibility criteria accorded to IPs under OP 4.10?. 45 The Panel team was further
         informed that the term was arrived at after much discussion at the time of the adoption of
         the national Constitution, and that the term, Indigenous Peoples was difficult to explain in
         the national context, whereas people are comfortable with the term Vulnerable and
         Marginalized People.

     84. During its meeting with Management, the Panel Team learnt that the country office has
         initiated a Country Social Analysis to interpret the interface between OP 4.10 and the
         Constitution with a view to providing guidance to Bank teams and GoK on the
         application of OP 4.10. While this is not a component of NRMP, the Panel takes positive
         note of Management’s initiative in addressing this complex issue.

     85. The Panel notes that Management was forthright in informing the Board in the
         Restructuring Paper of its view that, in retrospect, the Project could not find a
         comprehensive resolution to the land issues within the remit and time frame of NRMP.
         The Panel wishes to emphasize that it is not questioning the determination made at the
         time of restructuring that it would not be feasible to comprehensively resolve the
         longstanding claims to land of the Sengwer within the context of the Project.

44
    During discussions in the country office, it was explained that this may be due to the significant numbers of
inter-marriage that has occurred over the years between the Sengwers and surrounding dominant groups.
45
   Management Response, ¶ 36.

                                                          19
     86. This notwithstanding, the Panel notes that it remains an important policy issue, for the
         Sengwer and the Bank, whether the Project has adequately paid attention to “the
         customary rights of the Indigenous Peoples, both individual and collective, pertaining to
         lands or territories that they traditionally owned, or customarily used or occupied, and
         where access to natural resources is vital to the sustainability of their cultures and
         livelihoods?. 46 Whereas Bank policy recognizes that in some situations legal recognition
         of customary rights (e.g. through titling of land) may not be an available option under
         domestic law, it is expected that an assessment of customary rights would inform any
         alternative approach to addressing impacts on people who legitimately can claim such
         rights, for example in the context of the Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups Plans. 47

     87. The Panel notes that the Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups Plan (VMGP) for
         Marakwet (dated August 2011), covering the area where Sengwer communities still live
         in the forest, reports several concerns with respect to the issue of customary rights, raised
         during consultations. The Plan is presented as an approach to “livelihoods enhancement
         support? with the stated objective “to mitigate any adverse effects that the
         implementation of the project may have on these VMGs. For example, access restriction
         to, and utilization of forest resources may adversely affect forest related livelihoods and
         income generating activities of the forest dependent VMGs and should therefore be
         mitigated.? 48 The Panel notes the Requesters concern that the VMGP does not adequately
         address such impacts.

     88. At the same time, the Panel team heard positive comments and appreciation regarding the
         benefits of the livelihood program implemented under the VMGP. This appreciation was
         to such an extent that these community members requested the Panel team to convey to
         Management and KFS that the Project should be extended beyond its closure date, and
         that identified beneficiaries should not be penalized because of the closure date for
         procurement delays that have occurred at the Project level.

     89. Consultation. The Requesters and other community members cite several phases of the
         Project where, in their view, consultation has been inadequate. During the meetings with
         community members, the Panel team enquired about their experience with consultation.
         While some recalled being consulted during what appears to be the Social Assessment
         process, others stated that they have never been consulted. “They just come to burn our
         houses?.

     90. The Management Response refers to various instances of consultation with the
         communities during the process of Social Assessment as well as during the preparation of
         the Process Framework and the Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups Plans. These are
         elaborated in detail in Annex 5 of the MR. In addition, Management also organized a

46
   OP 4.10, Indigenous People, ¶ 16(a).
47
   ‘Customary rights’ to lands and resources are defined in Bank policy as “patterns of long-standing community
land and resource usage in accordance with Indigenous Peoples’ customary laws, values, customs, and traditions,
including seasonal or cyclical use, rather than formal legal title to land and resources issued by the State?.
48
   Final Report of the Marakwet VMPG. August 2011, p. 1.

                                                       20
          Regional Consultation Workshop with broad participation that led to the formulation of a
          collective action plan.

      91. Management Response also refers to the difficulty in consultation process due to the
          stated “lack of clarity as to the nature of community representation, and uncertainty as to
          how communities as a whole view the status of a number of NGO leaders who claim to
          speak on their behalf?. Management adds that “[o]n numerous occasions, Project
          implementation was delayed as the Project team attempted to sort out the real will of the
          communities, by reviewing and assessing the comments of a diverse group of self-
          appointed community leaders holding inconsistent or contradictory positions?. 49

      92. The Panel notes that OP 4.10 sets a high standard for consultation, requiring a process of
          free, prior and informed consultation with the affected Indigenous Peoples’ communities
          at each stage of the project (particularly at Project preparation) to fully identify their
          views and ascertain whether there is broad community support for the Project. It also
          appreciates Management’s comments on lack of clarity with regard to community
          representation, and the challenging nature of how to carry out effective and appropriate
          consultations in the present situation.

      93. During its eligibility visit, the Requesters informed the Panel that there was no
          consultation during the restructuring process, which changed activities as well as the
          nomenclature. In addition, the Panel team made an effort to hear the views not only of
          the Requesters but also of the various individual community members who had gathered
          to meet them in both Kapolet and Empoput. The Panel has heard different and conflicting
          views on how such consultations should be conducted, and with whom, in light of the
          nature of representation within the affected communities. The Panel’s field visit also
          indicated that important questions remain as to whether Management has complied with
          the requirements of OP 4.10 to ensure that there is “broad community support? for the
          approach taken to avoid or mitigate adverse impacts on Sengwer communities with
          customary rights to land and resources inside the project area.

      94. In light of the above, the Panel considers that the Requesters raise an important issue of
          whether the safeguards protection envisaged in Bank policy for indigenous people was
          adequately ensured, and in particular with respect to consideration of customary rights
          and the consultations on this issue. This remains an important issue also in a situation
          where resettlement of Sengwer communities from gazetted forest land is being
          considered.

          G.      Recommendation

      95. The Requesters and the Request meet the technical eligibility criteria set forth in the
          Resolution that established the Inspection Panel and the 1999 Clarifications.

      96. The Panel appreciates Management’s forthright approach taken during the restructuring
          process in recognizing the limitations of the Project in dealing with the comprehensive
49
     Management Response, p. 10

                                                  21
   resolution to land and legacy issues, as well as their intention of continuing their
   engagement on these issues through policy dialogue and through support to the Inter-
   ministerial task force. The Panel has noted positively that Management is also addressing
   the challenging issue of the interface between OP 4.10 and the Constitution through a
   Country Social Analysis. The Panel has also noted Management’s responsiveness when
   reports of forced evictions and harassment began to emerge.

97. Nonetheless, the Panel notes that there are conflicting assertions and differing views on
    issues of harm and compliance with policies and procedures raised in the Request for
    Inspection, as evidenced by the various statements made in the Request, in the
    Management Response, and in the Panel’s meetings with affected people and with Bank
    staff. These relate to whether the Project took adequate account of the safeguards
    protection envisaged in Bank policy for indigenous people, and in particular with respect
    to consideration of customary rights and the associated processes of consultation. The
    Panel also considers that there are plausible linkages between activities under the Project
    and the concerns of the people relating to eviction and resettlement, which raise serious
    issues as to whether Bank safeguard policies have been met, and whether any such non-
    compliance may have resulted in material adverse effects for the affected people and
    communities.

98. In order to ascertain compliance or lack thereof with Bank policies and procedures in the
    design, implementation, and restructuring of the Project, the Panel must conduct an
    appropriate review of all relevant facts and applicable policies and procedures. This can
    be done only in the course of an investigation.

99. In light of the observations noted above, the Panel recommends that an investigation be
    carried out on the issues raised by the Request that relate to allegations of harm and
    related non-compliance with World Bank operational policies and procedures under the
    Project with respect to a) the application of policies in relation to evictions and issues of
    resettlement of affected Sengwer people, and b) the consideration of customary rights of
    the affected Sengwer people, including consultations on this issue. The Panel’s
    investigation will also report on any steps and actions taken by Management during the
    course of the investigation to address the issues of compliance and the concerns raised by
    the Requesters.




                                             22
ANNEX I
Keep our names and contacts as confidential



The Executive Secretary,
The Inspection Panel,
World Bank,
1818 H Street, NW,
Washington. DC 20433. USA



1. We
   and represent others                        as
   Talau and Kaipos (West Pokot County), Empoput Forest (Elgeiyo Marak wet County) in
   Cherangany Hills Project Operation area for Natural Resources Management Project
   (NRMP) a World Bank funded project. Our addresses are attached.


2. We have suffered harm and we likely to suffer further harm as a result of the World Bank's
   failures or omissions in the Natural Resources Management Project (NRMP) located in
   West Pokot, Trans Nzoia and Elgeiyo Marakwet Counties in Cherangany Hills, Rift Valley
   Province in Kenya.

3. Harm Suffered:-

   a) Burning of Houses and Destruction Property of Sengwer ethnic minority forest
      Indigenous Peoples in Empoput Forest- In 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 -Kenya
      Forest Service guards with support of administration police carried out forceful
      evictions of Sengwer Indigenous Peoples in Empoput forest. Over 500 houses were
      burnt, Property destoyed (food grains, house utensils, beddings, school books, etc).
      Further, the inhuman forceful violations led to cases of school drop outs; psychological
      torture; violations of spiritual and cultural believes, norms, taboos and values.

       Empoput Forest (in Marakwet East District, Elgeyo Marakwet County) is part of
       ancestral homes of Sengwer an ethnic minority hunter-gatherer Indigenous Peoples.
       Colialist found their ancestors their and even gave them perm its to live in the forests.

   b) Arrests of 41 members of Sengwer Indigenous Peoples and 4 local community
      members in Kapolet forest in 2009 - They were taken to police cells in Kitale
      Police Station and later appeared before Kitale Law Courst were they were
      charged with an offence of illegal cultivation of forests without permit. It is
      important to note that Kapolet Forest is one of Sengwer ancestral homes that
      Sengwer families have been living since time immemorial till when Kenya became
      British Colonial Protectorate in 1895.

       At first the Bristish government recognized Sengwer families living in this forest
       by creating an administrative unit called Kipsirat location and having the late
       Kipsangas Kapelio as the Chief. Later on through discriminatory forest
       preservation policies led to forceful eviction and displacement of Sengwer
       families from the forest and having the forest qazetted as government forest.

Sengwer I 1
Keep our names and contacts as confidential




       In 1997 the retired President of Kenya directed the provincial administration to
       settle members of Sengwer community on Kapolet forest- there are minutes from
       Provincial Commissioner and District Commissioner that supports the same .. The
       government divided the settlement into two phases i.e. Phase I and II. 489 families
       were settled in phase I and no legal documents have been issued to date to
       support their settlement. Dermacation and Settlement of phase II was stopped up
       to now.

       Further, in 2004 some hundreds of Sengwer families moved to settle in Kapolet
       forest i.e. Phase II. 97 members of the community were arrested and charged at
       Kapenguria law courts with intentions to encroach government forest. The case
       was later ruled in favour ofSengwer indigenous community.

       It is important to note that the ruling of the case involving arrested community
       members is still pending at Kitale Law Courts since 2009. The arrested members, .
       their families and entire Sengwer indigenous peoples have had their fundamental
       freedoms, human and indigenous rights violated. They have been subjected to
       torture, poverty, oppression and segregation as peoples within their ancestral
       lands and while an Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework for Natural
       Resources Management Project is still in force.

       The Sengwer Indigenous Peoples have used hundreds of thousands in Kenya
       shillings to pay for legal fees, transport, meals and costs.

   c) Shooting of a woman in Kapolet forest - in 2009 when the forest guards entered
      Kapolet forest to arrest members of Sengwer families they used live bullets.
      During the shotings, Mrs. Beatrice Chepkorir a Sengwer indigenous woman was
      shot from the back and left for death until good Samaritans took her to Kitale
      District hospital where she was admitted and received treatment.

   d) The use of Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups instead of Indigenous Peoples -
      The decision by Kenya Forest Services and Kenya Government to use Vulnerable
      and Marginalized Groups with reference to Indigenous Peoples without carrying
      out a free prior and informed consultations with inidgenous peoples is a violation
      of the rights of indigenous peoples as stipulated in the United Declaration on the
      Rights of Indigenous Peoples, African Charter on Human and Peoples Rights,
      World Bank Operational Policy 4.10 on Indigenous Peoples, IPPF for Natural
      Resources Management Project, Social Assessment Report for Natural Resources
      Management Project.

       It is false for Kenya Forst Service to claim that the Kenya Constitution refers to
       Indigenous Peoples as Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups. The Kenyan
       constitution has got no definition of vulnerable groups or vulnerable and
       marginalized groups.

   e) Threats and Intimidation - In Kapolet Fotest when Sengwer families objected to
      planting of trees, the then district commissioner of Trans Nzoia threatened the
Sengwer   I2
Keep our names and contacts as confidential



        Sengwer families that you rely on an IPPF which is just a mere Memorandum of
        Understanding. The DC said all these before Mr. Muchemi from the World Bank
        Office -Nairobi.

        Further, when Sengwer leaders and elders pushed effective and efficient
        implementation ofthe letter and spirit ofiPPF for Natural Resources Management
        Project- The World Bank Team Leader- said that we should be grateful to have
        NRMP in Cherangany Hills, because it was not suppossed to be carried out
        Cherangany Hills. He further, said that it is the consultant who was hired to
        prepare an lPPF who covered Cherangany Hills. He concluded by saying that the
        NRMP is therefore in Cherangany Hills by default.

   f)   Resettlement Plans           The Kenya government through Kenya Forest
        Service/Natural Resources Management Project and Ministry Special Programmes
        made plans to resettle Sengwer families living in Empoput Forest without carrying
        effective and efficient free prior and informed consultations. There were plans to
        purchase land in Kipkapus and Rongai. Also at one point the community members
        were asked to look for land as individuals. The resettlement plans go against
        World Bank Operational Policy 4.12 on involuntary resettlement.

4. World Bank's Operational Policies that we believe have not been observed are:-

   a) Operational Policy 4.10- Indigenous Peoples Policy

   b) Operational Policy 4.12 -Involuntary Resettlement

We have complained to World Bank staff on the following occasions see attached letters by
writting letters, we have had meetings with NRMP WB Team Leader and Country Director. We
have not be satisfied by explannations given by the KFS, Kenya Government and World Bank
Country Office. Further, we feel that World Bank officers failed to carry out their supervisory
role instead they protected their client even when there was clear facts and indications that the
rights of Sengwer indigenous peoples were being violeted.

We recommend that-

   a) Kenya Government through the Ministry of Forestry and Wildlife; Ministry of
      Lands recognizes, respects and protects the rights of Sengwer forest indigenous
      peoples to live within their ancestral homes in Kapolet and Empoput Forests as
      part of the ecosystem while carrying out livelihood activities that promote
      sustainable conservation and protection of natural resources.

   b) Kenya Government reviews all discriminatory policies, acts and laws that are
      against recognition and promotion of the rights of forest indigenous peoples to
      live harmoniously within their ancestral homes in the forest.

   c) Kenya Government through the Ministry of Forestry and Wildlife (Kenya Forest
      Service/Natural Resources Management Project) compensates Sengwer
      Indigenous Peoples families whose houses and property were burnt in Empoput
Sengwer I 3
Keep our names and contacts as confidential




       Forest since the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework for Natural Resources
       Management Project was adopted by Kenya Government and World Bank in 2007.

   d) Kenya Government through the Ministry of Forestry and Wildlife (Kenya Forest
      Service/Natural Resources Management Project) compensates members of
      Sengwer Indigenous Peoples who were arrested in Kapolet Forest and the case is
      still pending at Kitale Law Courts

   e) Kenya Government through the Ministry of Forestry and Wildlife (Kenya Forest
      Service/Natural Resources Management Project) compensates the Sengwer
      woman who was shot by a forest guard in Kapolet forest in 2009.

   f) Kenya Government recognizes and promotes the use of Indigenous Peoples as it
      did while preparing Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework and Social
      Assessment Report for Natural Resources Management Project and with
      respected to international human rights instruments e.g. United Nations
      Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, African Charter on Human and
      Peoples Rights and ILO Convention No. 169.

   g) Kenya Government transfers with immediate effect the current Zonal Manager for
      Trans Nzoia County Mr. Wahome for he has been the main person who directed
      the arrests of members of Sengwer community and shooting of a woman in
      Kapolet forest in 2009.

   h) World Bank suspends any funding towards REDD + untill the said violations,
      injustices, concerns and fears are addressed

We request the Inspection Pane I recommend to the World Bank's Executive Directors that an
investigation of these matters be carried out.

Signatures:




Sengwer   I4
Keep our names and contacts as confidential




       Date:    13.1.2013


       Contact address, telephone number, fax number and email




       We do not authorize you to disclose our identities. Please, keep our identities and
       contacts confidential.




Sengwer I 5
ANNEX II
                      MANAGEMENT RESPONSE TO
             REQUEST FOR INSPECTION PANEL REVIEW OF THE
        KENYA: NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT (P095050)

Management has reviewed the Request for Inspection of the Kenya: Natural Resource Manage-
ment Project (P095050), received by the Inspection Panel on January 14, 2013 and registered on
January 30, 2013 (RQ13/02). Management has prepared the following response.




                                       March 15, 2013
                                                               CONTENTS

Abbreviations and Acronyms ......................................................................................... iv
Executive Summary ........................................................................................................ vii
I.      Introduction .............................................................................................................. 1
II.     Project Background ................................................................................................. 1
III. Special Issues ............................................................................................................ 6
IV. The Request ............................................................................................................ 14
V.      Management’s Response ....................................................................................... 14

Map
Map 1.          IBRD No. 39822 – Kenya Natural Resource Management Project



Annexes

Annex 1.             Claims and Responses
Annex 2.             World Bank Actions in the NRMP Project Area in response to Evictions in Em-
                     bobut Forest
Annex 3.             Current Plans by the GoK through the Ministry of State for Special Programmes
                     (MSSP) to Resettle IDPs and Forest Evictees
Annex 4.             Timeline of Key Events related to Safeguards in NRMP Component 2
Annex 5.             Free, Prior and Informed Consultations Process for Social Assessment (SA), Pro-
                     cess Framework (PF) and Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups Plans (VMGPs)
Annex 6.             Disclosure of Safeguard Instruments for NRMP
Annex 7.             Project-level GRM Process




                                                                      iii
            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BP         Bank Procedures
CDD        Community Driven Development
CHEMUDEP   Cherangany Multipurpose Development Programme
DC         District Commissioner
FCPF       Forest Carbon Partnership Facility
FFM        Fact-finding Mission
GoK        Government of Kenya
GRM        Project-Level Grievance Redress Mechanism
IA         Implementing Agency
IDP        Internally Displaced Persons
IMTF       Inter-Ministerial Task Force
IP         Indigenous Peoples
IPO        Indigenous Peoples Organization
IPP        Indigenous Peoples Plan
IPPF       Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework
KFS        Kenya Forest Service
KWS        Kenya Wildlife Service
MoFW       Ministry of Forestry and Wildlife
MP         Member of Parliament
MSSP       Ministry of State for Special Programs
NGO        Nongovernmental Organization
NIB        National Irrigation Board
NRM        Natural Resource Management
NRMP       Natural Resource Management Project
OP         Operational Policy
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PAP        Project Affected Person
PDO        Project Development Objective
PF         Process Framework
PS         Permanent Secretary
RAP        Resettlement Action Plan
REDD       Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation
RPF        Resettlement Policy Framework
SA         Social Assessment
SIDP       Sengwer Indigenous Development Project
UN         United Nations
VMG        Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups
VMGCC      Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups Coordinating Committee
VMGP       Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups Plans
WaSSIP     Water Sector Sanitation Improvement Project
WRMA       Water Resources Management Authority




                           iv
           Currency Unit
(Exchange Rate as of March 15, 2013)
          1 US$ = KSh 85
         1 KSh = 0.01 US$




                 v
vi
                                     EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

The Project

i.      The Natural Resource Management Project (NRMP) was prepared to assist the Govern-
ment of Kenya (GoK) to better manage water resources and forests, through strengthening of the
information base, enhancing the legal and regulatory framework, financing investments in capital
works, and, most importantly, engaging communities as partners in co-management of water and
forest resources. In doing so, two critical watersheds of the Tana and the Nzoia Rivers were se-
lected, with investments planned in the upper catchment of the Tana River and two watersheds of
the Nzoia River catchment, the Kakamega Forest and Mt. Elgon.

ii.     The NRMP was approved by the Bank’s Board of Executive Directors in March 2007
and became effective on December 10, 2007, due to delays in the elaboration of subsidiary credit
agreements between the Ministry of Finance (MoF) and the Implementing Agencies (IAs). Once
it became effective, it was almost immediately affected by the turmoil that followed the disputed
December 27, 2007 general election, which caused implementation delays until April 2008. The
Project is currently under implementation and will be closing on June 30, 2013.

iii.   Project Objectives. The original Project Development Objectives (PDO) were “to en-
hance the Recipient’s institutional capacity to manage water and forest resources, reduce the in-
cidence and severity of water shocks, such as drought, floods and water shortage in river catch-
ments and improve the livelihoods of communities in the co-management of water and forest
resources.? Through the 2011 restructuring the PDO was changed to “to improve the manage-
ment of water and forest resources in selected districts.?

iv.     Project Components. The NRMP has four components: (i) Water Resource Management
and Irrigation (US$38.1m); (ii) Management of Forest Resources (US$21.1m); (iii) Livelihood
Investments in the Upper Tana Catchment (US$4.5m); and (iv) Management and Monitoring and
Evaluation (US$4.8m). The first two components support the legal and institutional reforms in
the water and forest sectors, including support to enabling community participation and benefit
sharing in Project forest areas. The third component focuses specifically on assistance to Upper
Tana Catchment communities participating in the management of water and forest resources.
The activities under Component 2 are the subject of this Request for Inspection.

v.      Project Restructuring. The Project was restructured in 2011 to introduce changes in
Component 2, where three enhancements to the existing activities were proposed: (i) to assist the
Government in implementing a livelihood and rural development program, focusing on Indige-
nous Peoples (IPs) and other forest communities; (ii) technical assistance, as originally planned
under the Project for formulation of a strategy to improve forest management, to cover integra-
tion of guidelines for vulnerable and marginalized communities; and (iii) to strengthen communi-
ty forest associations and other local groups. In this context, together with the other components
dealing with water resources management and irrigation, the restructured Project improved the
overall impact on the country’s participatory approach to sustainable development and poverty
reduction programs. The restructuring also sought to address unrealistic aspirations in Project
documents concerning the resolution of long-standing land issues, as will be described in more
detail below.


                                               vii
The Request

vi.    The Request for Inspection was submitted by individuals from Sengwer communities in
the Cherangany Hills in the western highlands of Kenya (hereafter referred to as the “Re-
questers?). The Requesters have asked for confidentiality.

vii.     The Request raises a broad array of concerns regarding indigenous groups’ land rights
and tenure, including historical, unresolved land issues. Specifically the Request refers to a num-
ber of incidents between 2007 and 2011, which the Request claims involved evictions of com-
munity members from forest areas, alleged arrests of community members by the authorities, and
alleged wounding of a community member by the authorities. The Request asserts that the Gov-
ernment should compensate them for these incidents. The Request also raises broader issues re-
lated to resettlement of forest communities, including allegations that the Government is current-
ly planning to undertake resettlement without complying with safeguard requirements. The
Request further puts forth a number of demands that are addressed to the GoK, and asserts that
various incidents and actions of the GoK are not in compliance with the Indigenous Peoples’
Planning Framework (IPPF) prepared for the Project, and that the Bank’s supervision was insuf-
ficient. Finally, the Requesters contend that the use by the GoK of the term “vulnerable and mar-
ginalized groups? in the context of the Project instead of the term “Indigenous Peoples? was im-
proper and was adopted without their consent.

Management Response

viii. Management notes that the Project environment of the NRMP has been challenging from
the outset, and is characterized by tension over historic land issues, longstanding grievances of
indigenous communities, and unresolved conflicts between those communities and the Kenya
Forest Service (KFS). There have been additional challenges to the implementation of the Pro-
ject, such as the widespread ethnic violence that took place in Kenya following the elections in
2007, including a significant influx into forest areas of people displaced by that violence and the
security related mobility restrictions for Bank staff until mid-2008. As noted above, Management
considers that the original project design was overly ambitious in several respects, including as-
pirations in safeguard instruments concerning the resolution of long-standing land and forest
conflicts that were not realistic given the scope and time-frame of the project. This has contrib-
uted to occasional difficulties in maintaining a clear distinction between project activities and
activities outside the project, and has at times blurred the line defining the appropriate bounda-
ries of project safeguard obligations. Management has erred on the side of caution, reacting
promptly to complaints as they have come to its attention, and strongly advising Government to
implement solutions consistent with project safeguard frameworks.

ix.     A number of the complaints raised in the Request are aimed towards the GoK and per-
tain to issues that go beyond the Project, such as historic land issues and longstanding griev-
ances of indigenous communities. This includes two alleged eviction incidents (in 2007 and
2008) that occurred before the Project was operational. At the same time, Management recogniz-
es, as explained in the Restructuring Paper, that the original Project documentation, most notably
the IPPF, may have raised unrealistic expectations about the Project’s mandate and capacity to
address such longstanding and systemic issues. In Management’s view these expectations may
have contributed to the Request for Inspection.


                                                viii
x.      Management has viewed with concern the reports of evictions, arrests and (in one case)
an alleged shooting and wounding of a community member that have been brought to its at-
tention during Project implementation. It has responded actively and constructively to those
reports. Management notes that any harm that may have stemmed from these incidents was
not caused by the Project, nor has the Project supported actions that led to these events. Never-
theless, Management acted swiftly when it became aware of the cited incidents, carrying out
field verifications, notifying the Government of its obligations under Project safeguard instru-
ments, and working with both the Government and affected parties to prevent recurrences, in-
cluding securing a fresh commitment from the GoK to refrain from further evictions that are not
consistent with those obligations.

xi.      Management has used both the Project as well as its broader dialogue with the Gov-
ernment to help address allegations of harm and to facilitate better communication and col-
laboration between the GoK and participating communities. This approach has helped to re-
solve some grievances and prevent others, although Management is cognizant of the fact that not
all issues have yet been resolved. In this connection, Management notes that while the Re-
questers assert that the GoK has failed to compensate people harmed as a result of these inci-
dents, Management to date is not aware of persons having identified themselves through the Pro-
ject or to the Bank to request compensation for their individual losses. With respect to reports of
arrests and of the alleged shooting and wounding, Management understands that matters con-
cerning several of the incidents are pending in Kenyan courts, and considers that the judicial pro-
cess is the appropriate forum for resolution of these matters.

xii.     Management emphasizes that no resettlement has been planned or financed under the
NRMP in Cherangany Hills or in any other forested area in the Project area. Because no re-
settlement has been undertaken during implementation of NRMP, the Project did not support the
preparation of resettlement plans under the forest component (as the Requesters erroneously as-
sert). In raising concerns about anticipated resettlement in the Project areas, Management be-
lieves the Requesters may be referring to recently announced plans of the Ministry of State for
Special Programs (MSSP, under the Office of the President) to carry out resettlement in the
Cherangany Hills. This resettlement is planned for Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs), which
includes post-election violence victims, the land slide victims from the 1960s, and forest evictees
(including Embobut residents in seven glades). This initiative is independent of the NRMP.

xiii. Management understands that the Sengwer people in the glades in Embobut have, for
many years, repeatedly requested that the GoK organize resettlement and have stated that this
is their most immediate priority. Under NRMP, preparation of various safeguard instruments, as
well as many field missions, has affirmed the very difficult circumstances that the Sengwer for-
est dwellers in Embobut have been facing from the distant past to the present, and their desire for
an appropriate and consensual resettlement solution. With respect to the MSSP-proposed reset-
tlement initiative, the Bank has ascertained through discussions held during February 2013 in the
field that Sengwer community members currently residing inside the Embobut Forest: (i) are
aware of and strongly support this initiative; and (ii) understand that it is independent of the
NRMP. Management has advised the GoK that any such resettlement should be conducted in a
manner that is consistent with due process and international best practice, as reflected in the
safeguard instruments adopted under NRMP.



                                                ix
xiv. The Request further complains that the Bank introduced into Project documents the
term “Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups? instead of “Indigenous Peoples.? Management
would like to clarify that this change was made at the request of the GoK, in order to be con-
sistent with terminology used in the new Kenyan constitution, and that is does not in any way
diminish the benefits and protections available under the policy to the people who meet the eligi-
bility criteria accorded to Indigenous Peoples under OP 4.10.

xv.     The Project also encountered challenges related to a lack of clarity as to standing with-
in communities of various individuals and groups who purported to speak on their behalf.
While two leading, yet competing, Sengwer Indigenous Peoples Organizations (IPOs) in
Cherangany Hills were identified at the outset of the Project, subsequent Project consultations
have suggested that neither of them was well known among the communities nor did the com-
munities consider them as their representatives even though the IPOs on numerous occasions had
written letters, allegedly on the communities’ behalf. Some communities (e.g., in Embobut) af-
firmed that they did not have any social or cultural organizations that spoke on their behalf. On
numerous occasions, Project implementation was delayed as the Project team attempted to sort
out the real will of the communities, by reviewing and assessing the comments of a diverse
group of self-appointed community leaders holding inconsistent or contradictory positions.

xvi. In Management’s view Project supervision has been strong and entailed prompt and
appropriate responses to the incidents of which it became aware. Due to the complexity of the
Project and the context within which it has been implemented, supervision has been exceptional-
ly intensive, with frequent missions and field visits (every 10 weeks), as well as regular outreach
to communities.

Conclusion

xvii. Overall Management believes that despite the difficult circumstances facing Project
implementation, the Project has provided many benefits to the communities, including popular
livelihood enhancements selected by the communities themselves. Communities noted several
benefits from the NRMP including capacity building of local community organizations in gov-
ernance and group dynamics, leadership, management, technical skills and livelihood assets such
as cattle and poultry raising and coffee and fruit growing. Through these activities and other pro-
cesses, the NRMP has strengthened the collective voice of communities and allowed them to be
proactively involved in Project implementation.

xviii. Management has carefully reviewed the issues raised by the Requesters and does not
agree with the allegations that non-compliance with Bank policy has caused the harm alleged
in the Request. The extremely difficult sector context presents many operational challenges to all
concerned. In spite of this difficult operating environment, which includes complex and sensitive
legacy issues, Management believes that the Bank has complied with the policies and procedures
applicable to the matters raised in the Request. Management concludes that the Requesters’
rights or interests have not been, nor will they be, directly and adversely affected by a failure of
the Bank to implement its policies and procedures. On the contrary, it is Management’s view that
the Bank was able to help address the issues in question and work with stakeholders, including
the GoK, to support a solution to such issues.



                                                 x
xix. While the Project has not caused, contributed to or aggravated the harm alleged in the
Request, the NRMP and the Bank have assumed an important but more limited engagement to
help resolve these issues. Some concrete achievements include:

     •   Securing a Government moratorium on evictions in the Embobut Forest, which has al-
         lowed the Sengwer to reside in the glades in the Embobut Forest, and enabled them to
         benefit from the livelihood enhancement activities of NRMP while awaiting Govern-
         ment resettlement.

     •   Supporting the implementation of livelihood sub-projects (Vulnerable and Marginalized
         Group Plans – VMGPs) through an informed and consultative process, which have ena-
         bled over 2,901 Indigenous People to access alternative incomes and direct livelihoods
         benefits from the NRMP.

     •   Supporting the Government Inter-ministerial Task Force on Land and Legacy Issues,
         composed of indigenous groups and government agencies. At its first meeting in No-
         vember 2012, the Task Force agreed on a draft work plan that will be validated among a
         final, larger group, including many Government agencies and Indigenous Peoples com-
         munity representatives. Vulnerable and Marginalized Group Coordinating Committees
         (VMGCCs) participating in NRMP were asked by the KFS in 2012, and again in 2013,
         to nominate representatives to the Task Force; the Sengwer Committee nominated one
         community member in February 2013.

     •   Supporting the preparation of a Process Framework (PF) that aims to help communi-
         ties around the forests address issues related to land use and access.

     •   Deploying a Management-initiated dispute resolution approach and a Project-level
         grievance redress mechanism.

xx.     In March 2012 Management initiated an innovative dispute resolution approach to sup-
port resolution of community concerns relating to the NRMP. This was an early example of uti-
lizing the new grievance redress capacity that the Board had approved for Management to devel-
op in response to the 2010 IEG safeguards evaluation. An independent regional mediator was
engaged to support KFS and community groups through a collaborative problem solving process.
The intention was to build sustained capacity for the local Project-level grievance mechanism
(GRM) and also facilitate dispute resolution on specific, potentially broader issues important to
the indigenous communities participating in the Project. The action plans and agreements identi-
fied through this process were affirmed through participatory community meetings. These action
plans have been accepted by KFS and are being implemented. The specific actions include deliv-
ery of Project benefits, co-management opportunities, initiatives to address land issues, and a
commitment by both KFS and communities to strengthen existing local grievance redress proce-
dures. Management believes that continued support for fair and effective grievance redress for
communities on the ground is essential to sustain the important development benefits that have
begun to emerge from Project activities.




                                               xi
                                      I.   INTRODUCTION

1.     On January 30, 2013, the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection, IPN Re-
quest RQ 13/02 (hereafter referred to as “the Request?), concerning the Kenya: Natural Resource
Management Project (P095050) financed by the International Development Association (the
Bank).

2.      Structure of the Text. The document contains the following sections: following this in-
troduction, section II provides background information on the project, section III discusses spe-
cial issues, section IV describes the Request, and section V presents Management’s response.
Annex 1 presents the Requesters’ claims, together with Management’s detailed responses, in ta-
ble format. Six other annexes provide additional background information.


                                II.   PROJECT BACKGROUND

The Project Context

3.      Kenya’s endowment of water, forests, and minerals serves as the foundation for much
of the country’s economic activity, but is vulnerable to shocks such as floods and drought,
mismanagement, and depletion. Kenya is one of the most degraded countries in the region, with
only 12 percent of its total land area classified as having medium to high potential for agriculture
and livestock production. The growing population and the resulting increase in demand for land,
energy and water is putting tremendous pressure on the natural resource base. In 2002, the Gov-
ernment promulgated a Water Act (No. 8 of 2002) that provides for establishment of a new insti-
tutional framework for the management and development of water resources, chiefly through the
national Water Resources Management Authority (WRMA). Recognition of acute problems in
forestry also led the Government to prepare a Forest Policy and a Forest Act, which received par-
liamentary approval in 2005.

4.       Water Resources Management. Kenya has a limited endowment of just 650 m3 per capi-
ta per year of freshwater, which puts it in the “water-scarce? category. Annual rainfall is highly
variable. The major rivers originate from five specific mountainous areas, and the management
of these few “water towers? has consequences throughout the country. Over half of Kenya’s wa-
ter resources are shared with its neighbors and need to be managed cooperatively. Key watershed
management issues include: (i) watershed degradation as a result of deforestation and poor land
use practices; (ii) lack of storage capacity; and (iii) poor management frameworks, although re-
cent policy reforms have begun to address this. The Water Act of 2002 provided a basis for im-
plementing water sector reforms. The WRMA was designated as the key institution to address:
(i) institutional coordination, (ii) decentralization and local accountability, and (iii) the sustaina-
ble financing of WRM.

5.       With only 90,000 hectares (ha) benefiting from irrigation (or about 1.2 percent of total
cropped land), and close to 26 million ha depending on highly unpredictable rainfall, climate var-
iability has a significant impact on the vulnerability of both smallholder farmers and the national
economy. The National Irrigation Board (NIB) is a semi-autonomous body responsible for man-
Kenya


aging national irrigation schemes. Conflicts between farmers and NIB over irrigation schemes in
the last two decades led to a lack of infrastructure maintenance and unplanned development, in-
cluding illegal water abstraction. Institutional reform targeting the irrigation sector has since im-
proved management and accountability.

6.      Forest Resource Management. Depletion and unsustainable use has reduced Kenya’s
forests from about 10 percent of its land area at independence in 1963 to an estimated 1.7 percent
(or 1.24 million ha) today. Forest ecosystems are reservoirs of biological diversity, comprising
four categories, including state indigenous forests, state plantation forests, farm forests, and for-
est and woodlands on local authority land, including dryland forests. Forests provide a wide
range of economic, environmental and social goods and services such as raw materials for the
wood-based industries, employment, soil stabilization, carbon sinks and water catchments that
protect the rate of flow and quality of water discharged by the rivers draining these catchments.
The indigenous forests have endemic and threatened species. Dryland forests and farm trees pro-
vide important livelihood strategies for many of Kenya’s poor people including wood fuel, char-
coal burning for income and use of wood products for building. It is estimated that in Kenya,
forests provide wood and wood products to over 80 percent of all households.

7.      Plantation forests were established to help create a viable, dynamic and diversified forest
industry with attendant impacts on income and employment, while at the same time reducing de-
pendence on indigenous forests for raw material supplies. Recognizing that indigenous forests
play a critical role in Kenya’s society and culture, they were managed to conserve water sup-
plies, to reduce soil erosion and (to a lesser extent) to produce timber raw material. However,
weak capacity in forest institutions combined with political interference, inadequate business en-
vironment, tight budgetary allocations and corrupt practices have resulted in poor plantation
management, abuse in the disposal of forest land and produce as well as preferential licensing,
which contributed to decline in supply of timber and other products. In addition, the steady
growth of Kenya’s rural population continues to place ever greater strains on forest land, which
is often considered the only remaining “land reserve? in the country.

8.      The main goals for the reform of the forest sector undertaken in the mid-2000s were to
raise efficiency, ensure protection and sustainable forest use, and promote poverty reduction.
Strengthening forest governance is critical for the success of these efforts. The 2005 Forest Act
embraced participatory forest management, whereby community forest associations (CFAs)
would be recognized as partners in management. It promoted private sector participation to en-
hance the competitiveness of the sector.

The Project

9.      It was in this context that the Natural Resource Management Project (NRMP) was pre-
pared, to assist the Government of Kenya (GoK) to better manage water resources and forests,
through strengthening of the information base, enhancing the legal and regulatory framework,
financing investments in capital works, and, most importantly, engaging communities as partners
in co-management of water and forest resources. In doing so, two critical watersheds of the Tana
and the Nzoia Rivers were selected, with investments planned in the upper catchment of the Tana
River and two watersheds of the Nzoia River catchment, the Kakamega Forest and Mt. Elgon.



                                                 2
                                                                   Natural Resource Management Project


10.    The NRMP, a Specific Investment Loan, was approved by the Board of Directors in
March 2007 and became effective on December 10, 2007, due to delays in the elaboration of
subsidiary credit agreements between the Ministry of Finance (MoF) and the Implementation
Agencies (IAs). Once it became effective, it was almost immediately affected by the turmoil that
followed the disputed December 27, 2007 general election, which caused implementation delays
until April 2008.

11.    Project Objectives. The original Project Development Objectives (PDO) were “to en-
hance the Recipient’s institutional capacity to manage water and forest resources, reduce the in-
cidence and severity of water shocks, such as drought, floods and water shortage in river catch-
ments and improve the livelihoods of communities in the co-management of water and forest
resources.?

12.    Project Components. The Project comprised four components:

       •   Component 1 – Water Resources Management and Irrigation (US$38.1 million). This
           Component: (i) strengthened the capacity of the WRMA, with direct investments in
           the Upper Tana Catchment; and (ii) contributed sustainable irrigation development
           through the consolidation of reforms of the NIB (National Irrigation Board) and de-
           velopment of irrigation in the downstream part of the Nzoia river basin.

       •   Component 2 – Management of Forest Resources (US$21.1 million). With the pas-
           sage of the Forest Act, Kenya sought to move from exclusive government conserva-
           tion and management of forest resources to joint management by local communities
           and the private sector, in order to improve forest governance and participation and in-
           vestment by stakeholders. To operationalize the Act, the Ministry of Forestry and
           Wildlife (MoFW) and the Kenya Forest Service (KFS) foresaw a Forest Management
           Component that would provide assistance in creating a transparent and accountable
           regulatory and institutional framework, and targeted support to implement the Act.
           Sub-components focused on (i) the operationalization of institutional reforms, includ-
           ing activities enabling institutional arrangements to enhance forest governance and
           improve revenue capture, improving the information base for improved development
           and management of forest plantations and better protection and management of indig-
           enous forests. Investments would be made in training and sensitization, equipment
           and other infrastructure at different levels with emphasis on the district level to facili-
           tate technical and cultural change required for an effective and accountable KFS; (ii)
           enabling community participation and benefit sharing, identifying and prioritizing an
           array of partnership models to implement the legislative framework and improve ben-
           efit sharing; and (iii) strengthening of institutional support services for the creation of
           an enabling environment for community and private sector involvement in develop-
           ment and management of production forests.

           As originally designed, financing was to be provided under this component to formu-
           late and implement a coherent and transparent framework to mitigate current and fu-
           ture conflicts over land, customary rights and rights of Indigenous Peoples (IPs), con-
           sistent with existing Kenyan laws and the Land Policy that was then under
           consultation. The Project would also provide financial resources for compensation


                                                  3
Kenya


             and/or resettlement, conflict mitigation approaches and assisting such households
             with alternative livelihoods. 1 As it was subsequently determined that these planned
             activities were overly ambitious, given the deeply entrenched nature of the underlying
             issues and the limited mandate of the Project’s implementing agency, these aspects of
             Component 2 were significantly scaled back in the 2011 restructuring described be-
             low.

        •    Component 3 – Livelihood Investments in the Upper Tana Catchment (US$4.5 mil-
             lion). Financing was provided for Livelihood-based Multisectoral Management In-
             vestments in the Upper Tana Catchment in Central Kenya, using a Community Driv-
             en Development (CDD) approach, where proposals were sought from communities to
             fund livelihood enhancing microprojects which support the natural resource base.
             Management was decentralized, with a Secretariat based in the WRMA offices in
             Embu, and a steering committee of key ministry and civil society organizations in-
             volved in natural resources management (NRM) to vet the proposed projects. Imple-
             mentation of microprojects would be carried out using district-based delivery mecha-
             nisms. Technical assistance was provided through WRMA, NIB and KFS staff on the
             ground to ensure a coordinated approach as well as sustainability of the micropro-
             jects.

        •    Component 4 – Management and Monitoring and Evaluation (US$ 4.3 million). The
             Project was managed through two line ministries, Water and Irrigation, and Forestry
             and Wildlife, and the respective implementation agencies (WRMA, NIB, KFS), sup-
             ported by a coordination office (staffed with a project assistant, procurement, finan-
             cial management and monitoring and evaluation expertise, hosted within the Ministry
             of Water and Irrigation).

13.     Project Restructuring. The Project was restructured in 2011 to introduce changes in
Component 2. This was done to address unrealistic aspirations in Project documents as will be
described later in more detail. It also introduced three enhancements to the existing activities as
set out below:

        •    First, to assist the Government in implementing a livelihood and rural development
             program, focusing on IPs and other forest communities through the community led
             development of Project financed Vulnerable and Marginalized Group Plans
             (VMGPs).

        •    Second, technical assistance, as originally planned under the Project for formulation
             of a strategy to improve forest management, to cover integration of guidelines for
             vulnerable and marginalized communities.


1
 The component also included a review of all relevant land related policies and laws to identify areas in need of
harmonization with respect to resettlement as part of the development of a National Resettlement Policy. However,
given that the GoK developed Draft Evictions and Resettlement Guidelines in 2009 and has been reviewing all laws
and legislation to ensure consistency with the 2010 Constitution, this activity was dropped upon GoK request as part
of the 2011 restructuring of the Project.




                                                         4
                                                                            Natural Resource Management Project


        •    Third, to strengthen the decentralized structure of community forest associations and
             other local groups. In this context, together with the other components dealing with
             water resources management and irrigation, the restructured Project improved the
             overall impact on the country’s participatory approach to sustainable development
             and poverty reduction programs.

14.     In June 2011 the restructured Project was approved by the Bank’s Board of Executive
Directors to introduce the following changes: (i) a revision and simplification of the PDO (“to
improve the management of water and forest resources in selected districts?); 2 (ii) a revision of
the results framework, including changes to outcome indicators; (iii) a reallocation of about 21
percent of credit proceeds; (iv) an increase in the disbursement percentages by category, in line
with the new Bank rules that allow up to 100 percent Bank financing for Project activities; and
(v) the elimination of two outdated covenants. The reallocation of Project funds among existing
categories was necessary to cover cost overruns on some components, in particular, in Compo-
nent 2 (Management of Forest Resources), where implementation progress was affected as fur-
ther detailed below.

15.      The restructuring aimed to adjust Project outcomes so that they were: (i) within the con-
trol of and could be delivered by the implementing agency; and (ii) could be achieved during the
life of the Project. This included: (i) an acknowledgment that resolving the more comprehensive
resolution of land issues was beyond the remit and time-horizon of the Project and would need to
be addressed as part of the broader dialogue; (ii) an understanding that the Project did not pro-
pose to address all vulnerability issues associated with IPs’ land and forest resource access is-
sues; and (iii) advancing the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework (IPPF) into concrete In-
digenous Peoples Plans (IPPs) for communities in Project areas, focusing on livelihoods and
CDD-type activities so that communities could receive tangible benefits. The Project restructur-
ing adjusted expected outcomes to take better into account the shifts in the Government’s forest
policies, including: (i) recalibration from a focus solely on forest protection to more joint forest
and community management initiatives, as part of Government decentralization programs; and
(ii) twinning forest control measures with rural development schemes, including support to
community-driven livelihoods and social services in adjacent communities, while allowing sus-
tainable access to forest resources. The community driven livelihood activities include cattle and
poultry raising and coffee and fruit growing.

16.     The restructuring also placed particular focus on updating the safeguard instruments and
improving their implementation to respond to the needs of IPs in Project areas. An expressed
concern of communities around the forests relates to land use and access issues. The Project has
therefore provided targeted contributions to these issues through the preparation of an updated
Process Framework (PF) and its implementation under the World Bank’s Operational Policy
(OP) 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement), as well as the preparation of VMGPs, which is the Gov-
ernment-preferred nomenclature for the IPPs that are required under OP 4.10 (Indigenous Peo-

2
  The Project intervention areas include the following districts: Kiambu, Thika, Murang’a, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Laikip-
ia, Nyandarua, Mbeere, Machakos, Mt. Elgon, West Pokot, Kakamega, Vihiga, Butere Mumias, Lugari, Bungoma,
Busia, Uasin Gishu, Trans Nzoia, Keiyo, Nandi North, Nandi South, Marakwet, Ugunja, Siaya, Bunyala, Kirinyaga
East, Mwea East and Mwea West.




                                                         5
Kenya


ples). Investments to provide livelihood benefits to currently marginalized and vulnerable com-
munities have been under implementation since mid-2012. The restructured Project also support-
ed capacity-building for KFS to better address conflicts over access to forest resources through
participatory approaches.

17.     Project Status. Due to initial delays in procurement and financial management, and over-
all slow implementation progress, the Project was rated Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU) for the
first few years of implementation. While Project performance gradually improved following the
March 2010 MTR, in particular under the technical components, given the issues related to the
implementation of the safeguard instruments, overall Project implementation progress has been
rated Moderately Satisfactory (MS) since May 2011 and was again rated MS in the latest ISR,
dated November 2012.


                                     III. SPECIAL ISSUES

Land Issues in Kenya

18.     The Project was designed and has been implemented against the backdrop of a long
history of conflict and confusion over land and access rights in Kenya’s forests. In the case of
the Cherangany Hills, the Social Assessment prepared for the NRMP indicates that forest areas
have for many generations been inhabited by various Sengwer communities. The Sengwer, who
traditionally have relied on hunting and gathering in the forest for their livelihoods, have long
asserted an ancestral right to live in and use the forest without restrictions. Successive govern-
ments – both colonial and independent – by contrast, have prioritized the protection of forests
through gazetting and state control, an approach which has consequently conflicted with the
Sengwer’s lifestyle and assertion of rights.

19.     The result of these conflicting claims to the forest has been a complex history of ten-
sion and lack of trust between government forest institutions (now the KFS) and Sengwer liv-
ing in or near the forests, which has heightened in recent decades as pressures on Kenya’s
forests and water resources have intensified. According to the Social Assessment (SA), there
have been repeated evictions since the 1980s – of different scales and involving various seg-
ments of the Sengwer community, with the pace of evictions accelerating since 2000. The Em-
bobut Task Force Report, for example, confirms that there have been a total of 21 eviction inci-
dents in the Embobut forests over the last three decades. Some of the more recent eviction
incidents are alluded to in the Request and are discussed in some detail below.

20.     There has also been during this period an emerging recognition by both Government
and the Sengwer that a permanent solution to this problem will require the resettlement of for-
est-dwelling Sengwer to suitable land outside the gazetted forest. In the absence of alternative
land, the recurring pattern of evictions followed by re-entry in the forest is likely to continue. It
is recognized that such resettlement needs to be accompanied by the provision of clearly demar-
cated and secure legal rights to land, and agreement on rules concerning access to the forest that
balance the needs of conservation and traditional livelihoods. The SA documents several efforts
by the Government to identify and provide alternative land over the last decade. In some cases
this has led to actual relocation of some households to the identified locations, and some of these



                                                 6
                                                                 Natural Resource Management Project


households have received title to land. For the most part, however, attempts to find solutions
through resettlement have not gotten off the ground or have stalled during implementation. The
situation has been further complicated by the influx of an increasing number of non-indigenous
groups, including Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) after the 2007 elections, which has added
a frequently tense inter-community dynamic to an already complex land and forest situation.

21.      In recent years, Kenya’s policy and legal framework has become more conducive to the
possibility of working out a solution to problems such as those involving the Sengwer of the
Cherangany Hills. As described above, a new Forest Act was adopted in 2005, which while not
conferring land rights on forest-dwelling groups like the Sengwer, does provide an important le-
gal foundation for a co-management approach to forest management involving local communi-
ties. In parallel there has been significant progress in improving the legal and policy framework
for land relations more generally, through the adoption of the National Land Policy and the Land
Act. A number of Task Forces have also been appointed by the Government to address specific
issues related to displacement and resettlement.

22.     In light of this improving policy environment, the Project as originally designed as-
pired to support the resolution of land issues in several ways, as described in the IPPF and the
Project Appraisal Document (PAD). This included support to participatory boundary demarca-
tion, clarification of land claims, support for resettlement and provision of compensation, and
assistance in developing a National Resettlement Policy. As described below, it has been evident
as Project implementation got underway that some of these aspirations – particularly those relat-
ed to resolving land rights claims and implementing a comprehensive resettlement solution –
were far too ambitious for NRMP, given the scope and time frame of the Project, and the limited
mandate of the Project’s implementing agency, KFS. While a comprehensive solution to land
issues in the Project area remains a high priority of both the GoK and groups within the Project
area, Management recognized during restructuring that there was a need to more narrowly define
what contributions the Project itself could realistically make to this larger agenda. These more
targeted contributions have included the development of VMGPs, capacity building and sensiti-
zation within KFS to improve forest governance methods, and the establishment of grievance
redress and dispute resolution mechanisms in which, among other issues, tensions around land
and forest access can be addressed.

Post-election Turmoil 2007/08 and its Impact on the Project

23.      The turmoil that followed the 2007 election had a major impact on the start of Project
activities on the ground, particularly in Western Kenya and Rift Valley provinces. Some areas
remained “off-limits? for both Bank and IA staff until about June 2008, and inter-ethnic conflicts
also led to large numbers of displaced persons seeking refuge in gazetted forest areas, including
the Cherangany Hills, adding to already strained inter-community relationships about land tenure
and access.

24.     This situation was further aggravated by a prolonged drought and the general recogni-
tion that ecosystem degradation and encroachment in the five remaining montane forest areas




                                                7
Kenya


(“water towers? 3) was a leading cause of reduced water flows into critical water bodies. In re-
sponse, the GoK decided to address this situation and initiated a campaign to “reclaim? areas that
had been encroached upon and cleared of forest cover, starting with the Mau Forest Complex
(not within the Project area). These efforts led to the eviction of persons who were unable to
claim land tenure and access rights.

25.      These events were closely followed in the Cherangany Hills, where downstream com-
munities began to demand that the GoK evict communities living inside gazetted forest areas
of Embobut. The demand was accompanied by a threat to unilaterally evict upstream communi-
ties if the GoK did not take action. Considering the effects of the post-election violence in the
area, the GoK felt obliged to act swiftly, and sought to avoid an escalation of the matter by or-
ganizing community meetings with elders and convincing the majority of settlers to leave the
encroached area voluntarily by providing the prospect of a settlement scheme. Once the en-
croachers had left the area, Administrative Police, supported by guards from KFS and the Kenya
Wildlife Service (KWS), burned existing structures to dissuade people from returning. However,
as in the Mau Forest Complex, no alternative land was provided for resettlement at the time, oth-
er than allowing those persons moving out of Embobut to settle along the main road in the area.
Eventually and as a result of the 2009 Embobut Forest Task Force recommendations, the majori-
ty of those communities identified as eligible for settlement were allowed to return to stay in the
seven glades within Embobut Forest, until a lasting resettlement solution was found.

26.    This relocation exercise was widely reported and was the starting point for a continu-
ous engagement of the NRMP with Sengwer community members. It highlighted the need for
KFS (and other GoK agencies) to change the approach to addressing issues of encroachment, and
to recognize the benefits of employing more participatory and community-led approaches based
on consultation and dialogue as a means to redress and mitigate conflict. In response to this, the
NRMP provided funding to establish a community-led livelihood development program, focus-
ing on indigenous and other forest communities, using a community driven development meth-
odology and including a project-level Grievance Redress Mechanism (GRM). The latter has been
shown to be robust and was able to resolve a dispute in 2011 (see below).

The Project and OP 4.10

27.     The Bank’s OP 4.10 on Indigenous Peoples was triggered with regard to Component 2
(Management of Forest Resources) of the Project, due to the presence of Ogiek and Sengwer IP
communities in Mt. Elgon and the Cherangany Hills, respectively. Since actual sub-project sites
had not been identified at the time of Project preparation, an IPPF was developed and disclosed
in 2006 to ensure that: (i) communities in the areas selected would not be adversely affected; and
(ii) measures would be developed and implemented to mitigate potential negative impacts. 4


3
  Aberdare Range, Cherangany Hills, Mau Forest Complex, Mt. Elgon, Mt. Kenya.
4
  Given the recognition of capacity constraints within KFS, there was heightened awareness on the part of the Bank
to mainstream the recommendations of the IPPF and RPF into NRMP implementation by early 2009. Nevertheless,
since few activities had been implemented until the official launch workshop of the Project took place in March
2009, there were no known compliance issues with either OP 4.10 or OP 4.12. A letter was sent to the Bank office in
Washington in April 2009 which complained about (rumored) plans for the declaration of part of the Cherangany




                                                        8
                                                                            Natural Resource Management Project


28.      In retrospect, the IPPF posed several implementation challenges. It included a number of
undertakings that would require significant policy interventions and multi-agency actions regard-
ing ancestral and land rights, that were beyond the remit of the Project to implement and that
could not realistically be completed within the time horizon of the Project. Specifically, the IPPF
included three commitments which the Project was not designed to implement: (i) a commitment
to hasten the provision of titles for land presently occupied and used by these communities in the
Project areas, including support for necessary steps (such as land survey and demarcation, regis-
tration, and documentation) to ultimately provide IPs in the Project area with letters of allotment,
group ranch titles, etc.; (ii) a commitment to establish a comprehensive strategy to rehabilitate
the livelihoods of evicted IPs, to the level of December 30, 2002; and (iii) a commitment for the
Project to offer specific assistance within the land restitution process to IPs to claim all lands
over which IPs have lost control between 1895 and December 30, 2002. These measures, while
desirable on their own account, were not related to the mitigation of anticipated Project impacts.

29.     In the 2011 Restructuring, Management clarified that the Project would not be able to
implement these three land-related commitments set forth in the IPPF and also that the Project
remained committed to the development of VMGPs – based on free, prior and informed consul-
tation and broad community support – that reflect community choices, address livelihood needs
and can be realistically accomplished within the Project framework. Subsequent consultations
with the Sengwer communities on the PF and developing the VMGPs made clear: (i) that the
plans and related PF would not address land and resettlement issues; (ii) the PF would specifical-
ly deal with matters of restriction of access to forests and use of forest products and resources,
under NRMP Component 2; and (iii) which activities would be eligible under the livelihoods
sub-projects (e.g., livestock breeding, bee keeping, cottage industry, conservation and reforesta-
tion activities, eco-tourism, water bottling, poultry keeping, horticulture, small-scale irrigation,
fish farming etc.).

30.     Management acknowledges that the IPPF lacked clarity and triggered unrealistic expecta-
tions. Despite efforts to eliminate the confusion about the role and function of the IPPF, some
individuals and groups in the communities continue to maintain the view that the IPPF, in partic-
ular those provisions aimed at clarifying and securing the legal status of IPs occupying forest
land, needs to be implemented as a prerequisite of any NRMP implementation.

31.     It should be clarified that neither the PAD nor the Financing Agreement references the
Cherangany Hills as a Project intervention area. However, given that the area had been included
in the IPPF, which forms an integrated element of Project documentation, in its discussions with
the GoK, the Bank took the position that it was part of the Project intervention area. This was


Hills ecosystem as a Game Reserve, which would (if declared) curtail access to the gazetted area. Although the
Bank team was not able to determine whether this gazettement was in fact planned, general discussions with KWS,
which is not part of the NRMP, confirmed the recognition that the declaration of new protected areas would be diffi-
cult, given the pressure on land. KWS’s strategy is currently more focused on co-management outside protected
areas. Nevertheless, as this issue continued to be brought up during consultations with Sengwer community mem-
bers as well in an additional letter in July 2009 (to the Director KWS) connecting the assumed plan for declaration
to the IPPF, the Bank sent a letter in August 2009 to the responsible Minister of Forestry and Wildlife requesting
compliance with “mutually agreed upon safeguard instruments? and requesting the GoK to engage in a dialogue
with the Sengwer and other hunter and gatherer communities.




                                                         9
Kenya


formalized in the 2011 Restructuring, in order to enable a reallocation of credit funds towards the
implementation of the VMGPs under the Project, and to allow KFS to use credit funds in the ar-
ea.

32.     As referred to in the restructuring, the Project has supported the preparation and imple-
mentation of the communities’ own VMGPs as a way to advance the IPPF in accordance with
OP 4.10. These VMGPs include livelihood and CDD types of activities, building upon a SA that
was completed in June 2010. 5 Preparation of the VMGPs was based on the principle of free, pri-
or and informed consultation resulting in broad community support as a pre-requisite for Bank
financing. These consultations included explicit discussion and explanation of the fact that the
Project would not be able to support the measures mentioned in the IPPF concerning the resolu-
tion of land rights and hence such activities would not be included in the VMGPs, which would
supersede the IPPF with respect to the geographic areas they cover. The VMGP consultations
ensured that the omissions could be considered by communities in determining their support for
Project activities.

Issues of Community Representation

33.     The Project has encountered additional difficulties because of a lack of clarity as to the
nature of community representation, and uncertainty as to how communities as a whole view
the status of a number of NGO leaders who claim to speak on their behalf. These leaders, to-
gether with other professionals from the IP communities – both Ogiek and Sengwer – have
formed an “Elite and Professional Group? of IPs (as they refer to themselves). Members of this
group have sent numerous letters to the Bank, asserting that the letters have been sent on behalf
of the communities. On several occasions, when the Bank team sought to validate the complaints
communicated in these letters with the communities in the field, they learned that the communi-
ties were largely unaware of such letters. Indeed, on several occasions, the Bank has noted a
marked disconnect between the aspirations of communities expressed in open consultations and
the approach adopted by those purporting to write letters on the communities’ behalf.

34.    The bulk of the complaints presented in discussions between the Elite and Professional
Group and a Bank team in 2011 was directed at the Kenyan Government, the constitutional pro-
cess and a number of historic injustices that those present declared they had suffered.

35.     Members of this group indicated that they felt excluded by KFS. Several of these indi-
viduals have in fact been elected onto Project coordination committees, but they have nonethe-
less expressed the view that these committees are less legitimate in terms of community repre-
sentation than are the NGOs these individuals lead. They also claim that most community
members are not competent to understand the issues at stake and hence need guidance from their
elites. They expressed their discontent with the fact that the Project had not implemented the
IPPF which they see as a precondition for Project implementation.



5
 To date there are four VMGPs which were finalized by the communities and approved for financing by KFS. The
VMGPs provide tangible livelihood benefits to the communities, such as cattle breeding and dairy, tea and coffee
growing, etc.




                                                      10
                                                                           Natural Resource Management Project


36.     A specific concern of the “Elite Group? has been the change in nomenclature from “In-
digenous Peoples? to “Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups,? which the Bank introduced into
Project documents at the request of the GoK, to be consistent with the terminology of the 2010
Constitution of Kenya. 6 Management has explained repeatedly that the use of the term “VMGP?
does not in any way diminish the benefits and protections available under the policy to the peo-
ple who meet the eligibility criteria accorded to IPs under OP 4.10. Paragraph 3 of OP 4.10
acknowledges that there is no universally accepted definition of the term “Indigenous Peoples.?
The policy therefore contemplates the possibility of using alternative terminology taking into ac-
count the varied and changing contexts in which IPs live.

Overall Approach to Grievance Redress

37.     As described above, the Project’s forest component is being implemented in a complex
environment characterized by long-standing tension between IPs and the GoK, in particular KFS,
as well as frictions within and between different local stakeholder groups. In light of these dy-
namics, the GoK’s Project team, IPOs, and Bank Management have recognized the importance
of building robust mechanisms for ensuring constructive communication, and diffusing and re-
solving grievances where possible. Two approaches for grievance redress have been put in place.

38.      First, the Project-level GRM established and managed by KFS addresses implementation
issues under the direct remit of NRMP and KFS. This Project-level GRM is described in the PF
that was developed with and approved by the affected communities, including the Sengwer, after
extensive consultations in local language. The GRM is now being mainstreamed into KFS’ activ-
ities nationwide, in recognition of the value of the approach.

39.     Second, Management initiated an additional, broader dispute resolution approach – in
parallel to NRMP and managed by the Bank – to support local parties to better resolve any
community concerns whether or not the concerns fall under the remit of NRMP or are part of the
broader legacy issues facing the IPs and KFS. This effort is an early example of utilizing the in-
novative new grievance redress capacity that the Board had approved for Management to devel-
op in response to the 2010 IEG safeguards evaluation. This additional dispute resolution capacity
provides a trust-building platform for communities and the GoK to explore opportunities to re-
solve disputes in a way that is mutually satisfactory.

40.    Project-level GRM. The Project’s GRM has been active since May 2011. It is defined in
the PF (pages 25-28) and in the VMGPs. The GRM aims to enable Project beneficiaries and KFS
to:

        •    Address complaints quickly and systematically;


6
  Although the term “Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups? is not used verbatim in the Constitution; the terms “vul-
nerable groups? and “marginalised groups? are used separately in various sections of the Constitution to include
indigenous communities. In addition, Article 260 of the Constitution interprets “marginalised community? to mean
and include an “indigenous community.? Finally, Article 21 (3) of the Constitution which makes reference to “vul-
nerable groups? includes “marginalized communities.? The use of the term “VMGP? does not represent any change
in the application of OP 4.10 in Kenya and captures the spirit of the Constitution.




                                                       11
Kenya


        •   Prevent minor issues from becoming major ones;

        •   Resolve problems at the lowest possible level;

        •   Build trust and confidence between the affected peoples and KFS staff;

        •   Help the different actors to identify underlying causes of conflicts and explore multi-
            ple options for unanimous agreement.

41.     The NRMP GRM is based upon the ideas and opinions of Vulnerable and Marginalized
Groups (VMGs) and other potentially affected people. It was developed closely and publicly
with VMGs in local languages, through a series of consultations that involved 1,500 Sengwer
and Ogiek individuals, and approved by the VMGs in May 2011. Importantly, the GRM com-
plements the Government’s other existing grievance redress mechanisms such as its Tribunal un-
der the 2005 Forest Act, and beyond that, Kenya’s High Court.

42.    The Project-level GRM explicitly is not designed to address issues beyond the remit of
NRMP implementation such as land and resettlement issues, inter-ethnic strife, criminal activity,
or government policy.

43.     One of the basic principles of the Project-level GRM is that it is based on good faith, re-
spect, and resolution at the lowest level possible. Another principle is that it has both proactive
and reactive elements for resolution of complaints that might arise from Project implementation.
The 4-step GRM is designed with the objective of solving disputes as early as possible. See An-
nex 7 for a diagram on how the GRM works.

44.    This resolution process was successfully followed for a grievance in Kaptirpai/Embobut
as noted in paras. 73-76.

45.    Management-initiated Dispute Resolution Approach. To help convene additional trust
among NRMP stakeholders and add value to the Project-level GRM, Management initiated a se-
cond dispute resolution approach that goes beyond the remit of NRMP.

46.     In early 2012 Management took the view that the evolving context and legacy of mis-
communication, conflict and representation had the potential to prevent the Project from meeting
its objectives. It therefore initiated a Management-sponsored dispute resolution approach as an
innovative step to bring in a trusted external mediator to support Project stakeholders in resolv-
ing disputes. This approach was designed and is carried out in an open and participatory way: it
creates an avenue for any grievance from Project beneficiaries or locally affected communities to
be considered through a good-faith dialogue process. The mediator who anchors the approach is
a globally recognized conflict resolution professional with wide experience in the region, includ-
ing as a Mediation Expert in the panel led by Kofi Annan that successfully resolved Kenya’s
electoral crisis in 2008.

47.    The Management-initiated dispute resolution process supported the Regional Consulta-
tion workshop held at Nakuru in March 2012, which took place at the request of IP groups, and
was convened by the Bank with broad GoK participation. The objectives of the regional work-
shop were to: (i) enhance understanding of key concerns of indigenous communities among gov-


                                                12
                                                                   Natural Resource Management Project


ernment agencies, and how they could be addressed; (ii) present the objectives and constraints of
the NRMP; and (iii) discuss existing opportunities to address longstanding and emerging issues.

48.     A collective action plan was agreed at the Nakuru Regional Consultation workshop and is
being implemented by all stakeholder groups. The workshop was followed by a series of meet-
ings in community locations to share the agreements, obtain feedback and enhance the VMGPs
through broad participation. This process was followed up by further communications and com-
munity meetings involving the mediator and local parties between April and December 2012, as
well as additional meetings in 2013. Key outcomes that this dispute resolution approach contrib-
uted to include:

       •   A commitment by KFS to strengthen its own Project-level GRM, and a corresponding
           commitment by community members to use the GRM to address their concerns;

       •   Progress implementing the VMGPs (field missions have also confirmed community
           satisfaction most recently as of February 2013);

       •   Improved understanding of policy and Project commitments as well as their imple-
           mentation and limits; and

       •   Further momentum to the establishment of an Inter-ministerial Task Force on Land
           and Legacy Related Issues that includes significant VMG representation (VMG elec-
           tions pending as of February 2013).

49.     As usual in a project of this type, some complaints have arisen during recent implementa-
tion, for example relating to delays in procurement and the varying quality of agricultural inputs
– but the earlier concerns relating to enforcement issues (as raised in the Request) were not
raised again. In each of these cases, it has been possible for communities, complainants and KFS
to address the issues through the Vulnerable and Marginalized Group Coordinating Committees
(VMGCC) at the community level to the reasonable satisfaction of the parties concerned and to
agree on constructive action steps. For example, in December 2012, community meetings were
convened by the regional mediator with participation of over 100 community members. At these
consultations, the community together with KFS was able to discuss a letter of complaint written
by a single member of the Sengwer community from West Pokot. The complainant purported to
represent the broader community in expressing wide-ranging concerns that the community had
been marginalized by the project, and restating many issues of historical grievance that predate
the NRMP. Community members discussed the issue together with the author of the letter. They
clarified that they: (i) had not given their consent for the individual to write on their behalf; (ii)
refuted the complaints in the letter and affirmed that the letter did not represent their collective
issues; and (iii) reaffirmed their support to the NRMP and their commitment to addressing issues
through the existing Project-level GRM process.

50.     Management believes that continued support for the existing Management-initiated ap-
proach for dispute resolution and the mainstreamed Project-level GRM are both essential to sus-
tain the important development benefits that have begun to emerge from Project activities. The
Manage-ment-led dispute resolution approach is supported by local people, and has invested in
building capacity for community consensus-building and accountable representation. Given the


                                                 13
Kenya


inter-ethnic post-election violence in Kenya in 2008, and the legacy issues involving land access
and use, there is a legacy of low trust among community members as well as between the com-
munity, local government administrations and KFS.

51.     Restoring trust is essential to the process of community development, yet it inevitably
takes time and effort from communities and agencies, as well as expertise from conflict resolu-
tion professionals. The Bank’s role has been to help restore trust using a variety of approaches,
and to help mainstream a grievance redress mechanism that is developed and owned by the KFS
and indigenous communities. This community-based process that has demonstrated that it holds
real long-term promise. Management believes that continued support for fair and effective griev-
ance redress for communities on the ground is essential to sustain the important development
benefits that have begun to emerge from Project activities.


                                     IV. THE REQUEST

52.     The Request for Inspection was submitted by individuals from Sengwer communities
who say they represent other members of this community from the following four areas of the
Cherangany Hills in the western highlands of Kenya, namely the Kapolet Forest (in Trans-Nzoia
District), Talau and Kaipos (in West Pokot District), and Embobut Forest (in Marakwet District)
(hereafter referred to as the “Requesters?). The Requesters have asked for confidentiality.

53.     The Request raises a broad array of concerns regarding indigenous groups’ land rights
and tenure, including historical, unresolved land issues. Specifically the Request refers to a num-
ber of incidents between 2007 and 2011, which include evictions of communities from forest ar-
eas, alleged arrests of community members by the authorities, alleged wounding of a community
member by the authorities, and related questions of compensation. The Request also raises the
broader issue of resettlement of forest communities. It disputes the use of the term “vulnerable
and marginalized groups? by the GoK and puts forth a number of demands that are addressed to
the GoK. It asserts that various incidents and actions of GoK are not in compliance with the IPPF
prepared for the Project, and that the Bank’s supervision was insufficient.


                             V.   MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSE

54.    The Requesters’ claims, accompanied by Management’s detailed responses, are provided
in Annex 1. Management responds to several of the issues in more detail below.

55.     Management believes that, despite the difficult circumstances facing Project implemen-
tation, the Project has provided many benefits to the participating communities. In addition the
Project has helped to put in place important tools, such as the VMGPs, the PF and the approach-
es to grievance redress, to help enable the communities to better participate in the Government’s
forest management activities, which will continue beyond the closure of the Project.

56.    Management notes that a number of the complaints raised in the Request are aimed
towards the GoK and pertain to issues that go beyond the Project, such as historic land issues
and longstanding grievances of indigenous communities. At the same time, Management rec-
ognizes, as explained in the Restructuring Paper, that original Project documentation, most nota-


                                                14
                                                                  Natural Resource Management Project


bly the IPPF, may have raised unrealistic expectations about the Project’s mandate and capacity
to address such longstanding and systemic issues, including those that are raised in this Request.

57.     Management notes that the overall Project environment of the NRMP has been chal-
lenging from the outset, and is characterized by tension over historic land issues, longstanding
grievances of indigenous communities, and unresolved conflicts between those communities
and the KFS. There have been additional challenges to the implementation of the Project, such
as the widespread ethnic violence that took place in Kenya following the elections in 2007, in-
cluding a significant influx into forest areas of people displaced by that violence and the security
related mobility restrictions for Bank staff until mid-2008. As explained in detail further below,
the Bank underestimated the complexity of the context in Project design and the associated safe-
guard instruments (such as the IPPF) promised more than the Project itself could realistically ad-
dress.

58.     As noted above, Management considers that the original project design was overly am-
bitious in several respects, including aspirations in safeguard instruments concerning the res-
olution of long-standing land and forest conflicts that were not realistic given the scope and
time-frame of the project. This has contributed to occasional difficulties in maintaining a clear
distinction between project activities and activities outside the project, and has at times blurred
the line defining the appropriate boundaries of project safeguard obligations. Management has
erred on the side of caution, reacting promptly to complaints as they have come to its attention,
and strongly advising Government to implement solutions consistent with project safeguard
frameworks.

59.     Management has viewed with concern reports of evictions and recently proposed reset-
tlement that have been brought to its attention during Project implementation, and has re-
sponded diligently to those reports. Management notes that any harm that may have stemmed
from these evictions was not caused by the Project, nor has the Project supported such evic-
tions. Nevertheless, Management acted swiftly when it became aware of these incidents, carry-
ing out field verifications, notifying Government of its obligations under Project safeguard in-
struments, and working with both Government and affected parties to prevent recurrences,
including securing a fresh commitment from the GoK to refrain from further evictions that are
not consistent with those obligations. Management has used both the Project as well as its broad-
er dialogue with the GoK to help address allegations of harm and to facilitate better communica-
tion and collaboration between the GoK and participating communities. This approach has
helped to resolve some grievances and prevent others, although Management is cognizant of the
fact that not all issues have yet been resolved. While the Request raises issues related to compen-
sation, Management to date is not aware of specific, individual claims for compensation.

The prompt and appropriate responses to the incidents of which Management became aware il-
lustrate the strong efforts invested in supervision of the NRMP, which included frequent mis-
sions and field visits (approximately every 10 weeks), as well as regular outreach to communi-
ties, and responding to requests for meetings.




                                                 15
Kenya


Bank Response to Evictions and Related Incidents

60.      The Bank has reacted promptly to reports of evictions and sought corrective action
from Government. Management is aware of three specific incidents concerning eviction and the
destruction of property, which were brought to its attention after the Project became effective in
2009. Management’s understanding of these incidents, its discussions with affected people and
its efforts to seek corrective action by Government are summarized below.

2009 Eviction of Sengwer Community Members in Embobut

61.     Through a May 3, 2009 article in the Daily Nation, reporting the “eviction? of 450 fami-
lies, the Bank learned of ongoing activities targeting encroachment into parts of the Embobut
Forest. In an effort to better understand the situation on the ground, the Bank on May 8, 2009
wrote to KFS to request more information and to clarify the extent of KFS’s engagement in the
mentioned evictions as well as whether NRMP financing had been used to cover the operational
cost (which was not the case) in case KFS forest guards had been involved.

62.     On the same date, the Bank received a letter from a community member reporting on the
impact of the April/May 2009 eviction on the Sengwer community and requesting the Bank to
intervene, based on the assumption that the evictions took place as part of the implementation of
Bank-financed projects. In its response on May 18, 2009, the Bank reiterated its commitment to
ensure compliance with the IPPF recommendations and proposed a meeting between Bank and
Sengwer community members to start engaging in a direct dialogue on the issues at stake. Man-
agement points out that the NRMP was not the only project addressed by the Sengwer repre-
sentative; the Water and Sanitation Services Improvement Project (WaSSIP) and the Education
Sector Support Project were noted as well, given that they shared a similar IPPF.

63.     Taking advantage of a regular supervision mission carried out in the last week of May
2009, the Bank team obtained more detailed information on the April/May 2009 evictions from
Embobut Forest, and met with Sengwer community members in Nairobi on May 29, 2009. In the
meeting community members informed the Bank about their longstanding grievances as well as
their willingness to be resettled, if “equivalent or better land? were made available by the GoK.

64.     Discussions with senior management of the MoFW and KFS revealed that the April/May
2009 evictions were a result of Government action in response to an ongoing historical dispute
over water between communities living downstream from Embobut Forest and those living with-
in the forest. Given the prominence these evictions had in the media, political leaders (led by the
Member of Parliament of Marakwet East) started using their influence to support the develop-
ment of a strategy to solve the situation. Public pressure was applied to the MoFW, culminating
in the Minister establishing a multi-stakeholder Embobut Forest Task Force in June 2009, to help
the local GoK agencies to find a lasting solution for the evictees.

65.     A main output of the Task Force was a September 2009 report on the assessment of af-
fected persons, identifying three categories of people living in Embobut Forest: (i)
Sengwer/Kimalas/Ndorobos; (ii) landslide victims from the 1960s; and (iii) permit hold-
ers/associates. Based on the report, those persons identified as eligible for resettlement were al-
lowed to return to the forest until a final settlement was to be decided, but had to adhere to a


                                                16
                                                                 Natural Resource Management Project


number of restrictions (including regarding agricultural activities) inside the forest. Management
notes that the activities of the Task Force have not been financed under the NRMP.

July/August 2010 Burning of 8 Dwellings in Embobut Forest

66.      On September 29, 2010, Sengwer representatives informed the Bank of an alleged burn-
ing of houses and destruction of property belonging to Sengwer IPs in Embobut Forest. The
Bank responded to the letter within three days, requesting the complainants to provide more de-
tails regarding the allegation, while the Bank team at the same time requested KFS to provide an
account of the events. The latter submitted its findings on October 12, 2010; the Sengwer report
was received two days later.

67.     Following the initial information on the Embobut incident, which confirmed that dwell-
ings in Embobut Forest had indeed been burned, the Bank wrote on November 15, 2010 to the
MoF: (i) stating its concern and requesting that the Government comply with the social safeguard
documents and refrain from carrying out or planning any evictions without following due pro-
cess; and (ii) warning that non-compliance could result in remedial action by the Bank. In addi-
tion, given the discrepancies in the reports, the Bank decided to dispatch its own Fact-finding
Mission (FFM) to get an independent third party account of the situation on the ground (carried
out during November 23 to 30, 2010). On November 23, 2010 the MoF instructed the line minis-
tries responsible for implementing the NRMP to comply with the requirements set forth in the
Bank’s letter.

68.     The FFM found a very unclear situation on the ground which did not corroborate either
report. It identified a total of 8 dwellings with household property, 5 stores, and 3 maize plots
which were burnt and slashed down. It also confirmed that those properties were inside the glade
areas, and not encroaching into the forest. Community members indicated that the circumstances
that led to the destruction of their property were unclear and associated with victimization and
corruption, such as extortion of protection money by the individuals carrying out the evictions.
The FFM noted that while some dwellings and maize fields were destroyed, adjacent ones had
been spared, which suggests the arbitrary targeting of individuals. According to community
members’ reports, KFS forest guards, jointly with members of the communities (that is members
of the glade committees) engaged in the evictions. Upon inquiry by the Bank, KFS expressed
that this action was not a planned or sanctioned eviction, but rather an unauthorized infringement
by individual KFS staff members.

69.     A Bank supervision mission in December 2010, reiterating the Bank’s concern regarding
evictions, proposed the restructuring of the Project, to include actions to better address the im-
plementation of social safeguard instruments. A technical mission to agree on the restructuring
was carried out in mid-January 2011; it also stressed the urgent need to instigate a “moratorium?
on evictions. In addition, the Government and Bank agreed on: (i) the development of a PF; and
(ii) developing Indigenous Peoples Plans from the IPPF.

70.     The Bank communicated the findings of the FFM on March 18, 2011 to the MoF, empha-
sizing the need for the GoK to: (i) adhere to the obligations set forth in the social safeguard in-
struments developed under the Project; (ii) support the development of a PF; and (iii) refrain




                                                17
Kenya


from carrying out any further evictions of people from their current designated areas (glades) un-
til the PF was in place.

71.      In response to the findings of the Bank’s FFM, the MoF confirmed on April 27, 2011 its
agreement that: (i) that there would be no evictions until alternative settlement was found; and
(ii) authorized persons would have access to the forest, including Sengwer community members.

72.    The Bank team has followed up on several occasions with the community (including dur-
ing the PF Consultations in Embobut in April 2011) to better understand whether community
members affected by the incident are claiming compensation, given that no such claims had been
received by KFS. In their response affected community members expressed no interest in seek-
ing compensation, but rather a desire to participate in the CDD-type livelihood activities under
the VMGPs prepared with support of the NRMP to receive the related benefits. Community
members also expressed that their interest was to be voluntarily and permanently resettled by the
Government, which was seen as an ultimate priority.


November 2011 Burning of One or Two Dwellings in Kaptirpai/Embobut

73.      In a letter dated November 5, 2011 from the Cherangany Multipurpose Development
Programme (CHEMUDEP), an IPO based in West Pokot District, to the KFS NRMP Coordina-
tor, the Bank was informed that on October 26, 2011, two houses located in Embobut Forest had
allegedly been destroyed by KFS rangers. Following up, the Bank held consultations with the
KFS NRMP team, which confirmed the incident. Given that the GoK (in its letter dated April 27,
2011) provided assurances that no intentional evictions of persons were planned from forests in
NRMP areas, the apparent conduct of the KFS rangers in destroying the homes was considered a
deviation from this commitment. In a letter dated November 15, 2011 to KFS, the Bank request-
ed to put in place a credible set of measures to ensure that such incidents do not occur in the fu-
ture and proposed to carry out a full assessment of the situation on the ground by a joint Bank-
Government team, as part of the NRMP Implementation Support mission.

74.     KFS responded to the letter by the Bank on November 28, 2011 clarifying that the inci-
dent of the burning of a house in Kaptirpai Glade was neither intended nor sanctioned by KFS. A
newly posted forest ranger unfamiliar with the area was responsible for this action and he had
been warned on the matter. Using the established grievance mechanism under the project, KFS
immediately explained to the VMGCC the circumstances that led to the incident and went on to
discuss the issue to mutually reach an understanding. KFS reported that this dialogue with the
community was well received, with both parties agreeing to continue the existing cordial rela-
tions and work together to maintain orderly access and use of forest resources.

75.     A Bank team visited the site in Kaptirpai Glade, together with the KFS Zonal Forest
Manager and forester in Marakwet, as well as VMGCC representatives on November 29, 2011.
Through consultations with VMGCC representatives and community members as well as an in-
terview with the affected person, the team verified the report by the KFS regarding the cause and
results of the incident. Although the complaint letter by CHEMUDEP indicated the destruction
of two houses, it was confirmed that one house was burnt down and some utensils were damaged
at another neighboring house. The incident had been reported to the responsible KFS Zonal For-


                                                18
                                                                  Natural Resource Management Project


est Manager on the same day by the VMGCC Chairman in line with the established grievance
mechanism. The Zonal Forest Manager, accompanied by the KFS Inspector and VMGCC Vice
Chairman, visited the site on the day following the incident to ascertain the facts. Subsequently, a
community meeting was organized by KFS, at which the forest ranger officially apologized to
the affected person and provided compensation of KES 4,000, the amount requested by the af-
fected person. The affected person confirmed to the Bank team that the issue had been resolved.
The community also indicated that the issue had been dealt with by KFS and VMGCC. The
community added that CHEMUDEP did not represent the community and was not residing in
Embobut.

76.      The incident tested and confirmed the effectiveness of the grievance mechanism estab-
lished under the Project to enable faster communication of issues and quick resolution of con-
flicts. On the other hand, it revealed weak communication between enforcement (to which rang-
ers belong) and technical staff (to which Zonal Forest Managers and Project staff belong) within
KFS. The Bank team recommended strengthening sensitization and training of forest rangers on
ongoing developments under the Project in order to ensure compliance with Project-related
commitments made by KFS. This was carried out in the months following the incident.


Action of KFS against Alleged Forest Encroachers in Kapolet in 2009

77.      The post-election violence in Kenya saw a near breakdown of law and order in the coun-
try. As a result, a number of ethnic communities tried to redress what they perceived as injustices
against them by successive Kenyan governments since Independence. It is against this back-
ground that in 2008, the Sengwer community members entered parts of Kapolet forest to con-
struct temporary houses and begin farming activities. The community felt that this part of the
forest should have been sub-divided and given to them for settlement and for use without any
restrictions.

78.     Given that Kapolet forest is a gazetted forest according to KFS, the encroachment carried
out by Sengwer and some Pokot community members was a breach of the Forest Act of 2005,
which does not allow cultivation of crops without a specific permit. In an attempt to address the
perceived breach of the Forest Act, KFS together with Administration Police carried out evic-
tions from the forest to prevent further encroachment and destruction of the forest. This incident
was brought to the attention of the Bank during the SA in 2010. The Bank team was informed
that during this event, 41 Sengwer community members allegedly had been arrested and a
Sengwer woman shot and injured.

79.     In order to verify the facts, the Bank team requested documentary evidence (such as any
written report/complaint by the Sengwer community to the police, Chief, District Commissioner
or KFS; Police form P3 for reporting such incidents; or hospital/medical facility diagnosis, etc.)
in 2010 and again during a supervision mission in 2013. However, no documentary evidence
could be provided by the community. In addition, the Bank team was not able to meet the wom-
an who had allegedly been injured, despite repeated attempts.




                                                 19
Kenya


80.    Management understands that the matter is currently in court, as the alleged victim is
seeking compensation from KFS. The Bank considers the Kenyan judicial system the appropriate
forum for deciding on matters pertaining to law enforcement under Kenyan law.



Clarification on the Project’s Approach to Resettlement in the Cherangany Hills

81.     Management would like to emphasize that no resettlement has been planned or fi-
nanced under the NRMP in Cherangany Hills or in any other forested areas in the Project
area. As a consequence, NRMP has not supported the preparation of resettlement plans under the
forest component, as erroneously asserted in the Request.

82.     In arguing that the Bank and NRMP bear responsibility for resettlement in the Project
areas, Management believes the Requesters may be referring to recently announced plans of
the Ministry of State for Special Programs (MSSP) to carry out resettlement in the
Cherangany Hills. Resettlement is planned for IDPs, which includes post-election violence vic-
tims, the land slide victims from the 1960s and forest evictees (including Embobut residents in
seven glades). This initiative is wholly independent of NRMP and does not involve KFS.

83.     Management understands that the Sengwer people in the glades in Embobut have, for
many years, repeatedly requested that the GoK organize resettlement and have stated that this
is their most immediate priority. Under NRMP, preparation of the SA, PF and VMGPs, as well
as many field missions, have affirmed the very difficult circumstances that the Sengwer forest
dwellers in Embobut have been facing from the distant past to the present, and their desire for an
appropriate and consensual resettlement solution. With respect to the current MSSP-led initia-
tive, the Bank has ascertained through discussions held during a February 2013 NRMP imple-
mentation support mission that Sengwer community members currently residing inside the Em-
bobut Forest: (i) are aware and strongly supportive of this initiative; and (ii) understand that it is
independent of the NRMP.

84.     Management acknowledges that at the time of Project design, it was anticipated that
NRMP would play a more direct role in the planning and implementation of resettlement of
Project beneficiaries who resided in gazetted forests or had been subject to eviction. Consistent
with the Government’s commitments in the IPPF, both the PAD and the original Resettlement
Policy Framework (RPF) for NRMP indicate that the Project intended to support activities aimed
at addressing rights to forest resources, conflict over land and resettlement. The PAD states that
“the project will provide financial resources for compensation and/or resettlement? and will put
in place frameworks for “assessing the rights of persons residing in gazetted forests, categorizing
the forest encroachers, and selecting the appropriate approach for addressing the problem.? The
RPF, prior to its revision in 2011, stated that “sustainable natural resource and forest manage-
ment is only possible if all stakeholders are taking part and this is not possible as long as they
have no shelter, land or legal access to land and resources. To define how the livelihood can be
rehabilitated best, the NRM project will commission for each of the evicted communities a Re-
settlement Action Plan in line with the OP 4.12.?




                                                 20
                                                                   Natural Resource Management Project


85.      As part of the RPF and to address the fact that NRMP supported activities could cause
restrictions in access to natural resources in legally designated parks and protected areas, a PF
was prepared to establish a process by which members of potentially affected communities
would: (i) participate in the design of activities and determination of measures necessary to se-
cure equitable resource access rights; (ii) participate in the implementation and monitoring of
relevant Project activities, and (iii) participate in the formal four-step GRM for NRMP imple-
mentation issues. The PF was developed through a series of public consultations held in local
languages with about 1,500 Indigenous People (Sengwer and Ogiek) from April to May 2011,
following which it was endorsed in a public baraza 7 in June 2011. The Project level GRM under
the PF was adopted immediately and this is the mechanism that communities have been referenc-
ing in resolving issues in their communities, through the VMGCCs. For example, in September
the community used the Project level GRM to resolve complaints by a community member con-
cerning procurement of cows and their distribution among members. The VMGCC, with the
community, agreed to resolve the allocation matter through a lottery.

86.     KFS, however, wished to proceed with caution and to take time to consider the implica-
tions of the PF in light of the recent experience with the IPPF, which had overly committed KFS
to mandates beyond the remit of the Project or KFS. Specifically, KFS wished to have an instru-
ment that: (i) would not be contentious, (ii) had broader application to groups not covered by OP
4.10 that are also present in the Project area (e.g., landslide victims and permit holders in Embo-
but forest); and (iii) could be mainstreamed into KFS beyond NRMP.

87.     While the Project level GRM was being implemented at the community level to resolve
day to day problems, the Government/KFS assessed how to absorb the principles of the PF to be
able to mainstream it into KFS’s operational procedures. In this regard, KFS held a workshop
June 30-31, 2011 to review the document with its senior management and legal counsel and the
Bank/KFS further hired a consultant in June 2012 to develop Draft Guidelines for Managing
Livestock Grazing in West Pokot, which could be piloted with the PF. However, in light of the
elections (scheduled at various times for August 2012, December 2012, and finally March 2013)
and increasing tensions around land, KFS decided to postpone this.

88.     Following discussions between the Government and the Bank, and multiple revisions to
ensure the PF would be a workable tool for KFS, the PF was sent to the Bank in February 2013
for clearance to disclose. It consists of the principles for addressing restrictions of access to re-
sources and livelihoods, as well as a summary of the consultations and subsequent action plans.

89.    As explained above, at the time of Project restructuring, Management frankly
acknowledged to the Board that the approach set forth in the IPPF on resettlement and resto-
ration of livelihoods was overly ambitious and not possible to implement given the scope of
NRMP’s forest component and the limited mandate of its implementing agency, KFS. As a
consequence, and consistent with the explanation given in the Restructuring Paper, it was subse-
quently decided that the Project would not be in a position to provide direct support for the reset-
tlement of the Sengwer community members to a more permanent location. Instead, NRMP and
the Bank have assumed an important but more limited engagement on these issues by:

7
    Baraza is a formal community meeting.




                                                 21
Kenya


         •   Securing a Government moratorium on evictions in the Embobut Forest, which has
             allowed the Sengwer to reside in the glades in the Embobut Forest, and enabled them
             to benefit from the livelihood enhancement activities of NRMP while awaiting Gov-
             ernment resettlement.

         •   Supporting the completion of VMGPs through an informed and consultative process,
             so that livelihood benefits of Project-supported activities in forest areas could begin to
             be realized.

         •   Supporting the GoK Inter-ministerial Task Force on Land and Legacy Issues, com-
             posed of indigenous groups and government agencies. 8 At the first meeting of the
             Task Force in November 2012, a draft work plan was agreed that will be validated
             among a final, larger group including many GoK agencies and IP community repre-
             sentatives. VMGCCs participating in NRMP were asked by the KFS in 2012, and
             again in 2013, to nominate representatives to the Task Force; the Sengwer CC nomi-
             nated one community member in February 2013.

         •   Supporting the preparation of a PF that aims to help communities around the forests
             address issues related to land use and access.

         •   Deploying the Management-initiated dispute resolution approach described above

90.      Although the MSSP-led resettlement initiative is independent of the Project, Manage-
ment recognizes that it is expected to involve and affect the livelihoods of a segment of NRMP
beneficiaries. The Bank has therefore strongly advised the GoK that any such resettlement
should be conducted in a manner that is consistent with due process and international best prac-
tice, as reflected for example in the safeguard instruments adopted for NRMP. In recent discus-
sions with the MSSP, Management has recommended that the MSSP use the Bank’s safeguard
instruments, as this would help support a fair resettlement based on free, prior, and informed
consultations with the communities. The Bank also advised the GoK to document or carry out
further consultations with the Sengwer and other IPs given the decades-long persistent disputes
over land use and access in the forest zone, and the resulting legacy of mistrust. As stated by the
MSSP, the Inter-Ministerial Task Force on Internally Displaced Persons (IMTF on IDPs) and
Forest Evictees is tasked with finding land, securing agreement of IDPs to resettle, and providing
them with resettlement assistance as well as livelihoods restoration support.

91.     Management also asked for more information on the resettlement, which has been a rap-
idly evolving and politically sensitive issue during the run-up to the March 2013 general elec-
tions. As of this writing, Management understands that:




8
  It should be noted that the issues dealt with in the Inter-ministerial Task Force on Land and Legacy Issues go be-
yond the efforts now being addressed by the Inter-ministerial Task Force on IDPs (chaired by MSSP under the of-
fice of the President), which is focusing on the resettlement of IDPs, landslide victims and forest evictees prior to the
election.




                                                           22
                                                                  Natural Resource Management Project


       (i)    Land in Rongai and Kipkapus was offered to the IDPs and forest evictees but was
              rejected by them and the MSSP no longer considers this land an option – contrary to
              what the Request has indicated; and

       (ii)   Instead, two pieces of land (totaling 1,400 acres) have been identified in Eldoret.
              Leaders of the IPs/forest evictees have formed executive committees and their lead-
              ers and Member of Parliament (MP) viewed the land and accepted it. This land is
              currently being surveyed.

       (iii) A new law entitled the “Prevention, Protection and Assistance to Internally Dis-
             placed Persons and Affected Communities Act,? which came into effect in February
             2013, provides that: (i) arbitrary displacement is prohibited and an act punishable
             under the law; (ii) IDPs have the right to: (1) an adequate standard of living (includ-
             ing safe access to essential food and potable water); (2) basic shelter and housing;
             (3) essential medical services and sanitation; and (4) education; and (iii) Govern-
             ment shall put into place measures for assistance and protection of IDPs with par-
             ticular regard to displaced communities with a special dependency on and attach-
             ment to their lands, among others.

92.    Additional pertinent facts are provided in Annex 3.



NRMP and Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD+)

93.     Management notes that while the Request mentions REDD+, it does not appear to raise
any specific issues of noncompliance and harm with regard to REDD+. Rather the Request
makes an unspecific recommendation that REDD+ should not be funded by the Bank before the
issues identified by the Request (“…violations, injustices, concerns and fears...?) are addressed,
without further specifying such concerns.

94.     Background. The GoK has its own REDD+ program supported by various international
partners including the UN and the Bank. Participation in REDD+ is voluntary and several coun-
tries including fourteen in Africa are engaging in the REDD+ process through the Bank’s Forest
Carbon Partnership Facility (FCPF). At this stage Kenya does not receive any funding from the
FCPF for its REDD+ readiness. This has slowed the pace of readiness work in the country, de-
spite initiation of a good process that received positive feedback from the stakeholders.

95.     The FCPF is a pilot facility for assisting countries to enhance their capacity for REDD+
readiness. Funding is made available to participating REDD+ countries for building robust and
participatory forest monitoring systems, analysis of options for reducing deforestation and forest
degradation taking into account social and environmental considerations, setting up management
arrangements and building institutional capacity for REDD+ implementation.

96.     Kenya is engaging in REDD+ readiness efforts through its participation in initiatives
such as the UN-REDD+ Programme and its ongoing dialogue with the Bank on receiving sup-
port in the future from the FCPF. The need for an inclusive and participatory process that in-



                                                23
Kenya


volves relevant stakeholders at every stage of the decision making process underscores the vari-
ous phases of the REDD+ readiness process.

97.    As a first step towards readiness, Kenya has put in place a REDD+ Coordinator at the
MoFW and prepared its roadmap for REDD+ readiness that outlines the activities as well as the
process that the country will undertake during the REDD+ readiness phase. Multi-stakeholder
engagement through regional workshops (including one for IPs), and representation of relevant
stakeholders including IPs in the REDD+ Technical Working Group/equivalent bodies has been
ensured during the preparation of the roadmap. This is well documented in Kenya’s Readiness
Preparation Proposal which was validated at the national level and is available on the FCPF web-
site.

98.      However, recognizing the need to mainstream REDD+ within the ongoing forestry sector
activities, the next phase of the signing of the Readiness Preparation Grant has been delayed to
ensure that government agencies working on NRMP and REDD+ understand IP concerns and
work in a coordinated manner.

99.     It is important to note that in December 2012, the Bank received a letter from Indigenous
Peoples of Kenya requesting the Bank to expedite its support to the REDD+ Program. This was
due to the success of the Bank’s earlier support and the broad in-country stakeholder support for
the program. A follow up grant is being considered by the Bank.

100. NRMP and REDD+. The NRMP is currently the only source of Bank financing that is
providing support to the GoK’s REDD+ Program, and it consists only of technical assistance for
REDD+ readiness. In particular, NRMP is:

        •    Financing REDD+ readiness activities that provide a better understanding of the
             needs, perspectives, and priorities of the people residing in the forest, through, for ex-
             ample, a social and environmental assessment, consultations and development of ben-
             efits sharing options; 9 and

        •    Not financing any REDD+ activities that could threaten the livelihoods of indigenous
             forest-dependent peoples, such as through tree planting, carbon sequestration or civil
             works.




9
  Activities currently started include: Strategic Environmental and Social Assessment facilitator and consultancies
for implementation, Assessment of Benefit Sharing Options, Identification of Grazing Systems as a REDD+ Strate-
gy Option, Development of a Methodology for Monitoring Community Engagement in Forest Management and
REDD+.




                                                        24
                                                                 Natural Resource Management Project


Conclusion

101. Management has carefully reviewed the issues raised by the Requesters and does not
agree with the allegations that non-compliance with Bank policy has caused the harm alleged
in the request. Specifically, Management notes that any harm that may have stemmed from the
incidents cited in the Request was not caused or aggravated by the Project, nor has the Project
supported these incidents. The extremely difficult sector context presents many operational chal-
lenges to all concerned. In spite of this difficult operating environment, which includes complex
and sensitive legacy issues, Management believes that the Bank has complied with the policies
and procedures applicable to the matters raised in the Request. Management concludes that the
Requesters’ rights or interests have not been, nor will they be, directly and adversely affected by
a failure of the Bank to implement its policies and procedures. On the contrary, it is Manage-
ment’s view that the Bank was able to help address the issues in question and work with stake-
holders, including the Government, to support a solution to such issues, while generating valua-
ble lessons in sustainable and equitable forest management.

Actions

102. Management is cognizant of the difficult issues surrounding the project and that the
project was only in part able to address those. However, Management remains committed to
continue supporting the initiatives and mechanisms that the NRMP has helped put in place,
and which will help the communities to better participate in Government forest management
activities going forward. In light of the fact that the project will close on June 30, 2013 Man-
agement intends to discuss with Government further supporting the work in the sector through
technical assistance on lessons learned from the NRMP forest component. This technical assis-
tance would focus on developing options for participatory co-management of forests, forest ac-
cess, conflict resolution, and so on. The work would build on NRMP processes and KFS’s ongo-
ing effort to mainstream safeguards work developed under NRMP as operational tools for KFS’s
work nationwide.

103. Apart from that Management will continue to reach out to affected communities and en-
courage them to raise upcoming and pending issues through the Project level GRM and/or the
management-initiated dispute resolution process.




                                                25
     Kenya


                                                       Annex 1
                                                Claims and Responses

N
                        Claim/Issue                        Response
o.

1.   Burning of Houses and Destruction Property of         Management is aware of three specific incidents concerning evic-
     Sengwer ethnic minority forest Indigenous Peo-        tion and the burning of property that were brought to its attention
     ples in Empoput Forest. In 2007, 2008, 2009,          after the Project became effective in 2009. Management’s under-
     2010 and 2011, Kenya Forest Service guards            standing of these incidents, its discussions with affected people
     with support of administration police carried out     and its efforts to seek corrective action by Government are
     forceful evictions of Sengwer Indigenous Peoples      summarized below. A more detailed account of events is attached in
     in Empoput forest. Over 500 houses were burnt,        Annex 4. Management has no knowledge of the more widespread
     Property destroyed (food grains, house utensils,      property damage or other abuses alleged by the Requesters.
     beddings, school books, etc). Further, the inhu-
     man forceful violations led to cases of school        Management notes that any harm that may have stemmed from these
     drop outs; psychological torture; violations of       incidents was not caused by the Project, nor has the Project support-
     spiritual and cultural believes, norms, taboos and    ed actions that led to these events. Nevertheless, the Bank team re-
     values. Empoput Forest (in Marakwet East Dis-         sponded actively and constructively when these reports were brought
     trict, Elgeyo Marakwet County) is part of ances-      to its attention, carrying out field verifications, notifying Government of
     tral homes of Sengwer an ethnic minority hunter-      its obligations under Project safeguard instruments, and working with
     gatherer Indigenous Peoples. Colonialists found       both Government and affected parties to prevent recurrences.
     their ancestors their and even gave them permits      The Bank team has worked where appropriate and possible to help
     to live in the forests.                               mediate grievances – most recently by deploying an innovative dis-
     We recommend that-                                    pute resolution approach. Nevertheless, as Management frankly
                                                           acknowledged at the time of Project restructuring, it is beyond the
     a) Kenya Government through the Ministry of           remit, capacity and appropriate focus of a project of this type, to un-
     Forestry and Wildlife; Ministry of Lands recogniz-    dertake to ensure resolution of such longstanding systemic problems.
     es, respects and protects the rights of Sengwer
     forest indigenous peoples to live within their an-    Management notes that the overall Project environment of the NRMP
     cestral homes in Kapolet and Empoput Forests          has been challenging from the outset, and is characterized by tension
     as part of the ecosystem while carrying out liveli-   over historic land issues, longstanding grievances of indigenous
     hood activities that promote sustainable conser-      communities, and unresolved conflicts between those communities
     vation and protection of natural resources.           and the KFS. A number of the complaints raised in the Request are
                                                           aimed towards the GoK and pertain to issues that go beyond the Pro-
     We recommend that-                                    ject, such as historic land issues and longstanding grievances of in-
                                                           digenous communities. At the same time, Management recognizes, as
     b) Kenya Government reviews all discriminatory        explained in the Restructuring Paper, that original Project documenta-
     policies, acts and laws that are against recogni-     tion, most notably the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework
     tion and promotion of the rights of forest indige-    (IPPF), may have raised unrealistic expectations about the Project’s
     nous peoples to live harmoniously within their        mandate and capacity to address such longstanding and systemic
     ancestral homes in the forest.                        issues.
     We recommend that-                                    Management believes that, despite the difficult circumstances facing
     c) Kenya Government through the Ministry of           Project implementation, the Project has provided many benefits to the
     Forestry and Wildlife (Kenya Forest Ser-              participating communities. In addition the Project has helped to put in
     vice/Natural Resources Management Project)            place important tools, such as the VMGPs, the Process Framework
     compensates Sengwer Indigenous Peoples fami-          (PF) and the approaches to grievance redress, to help enable the
     lies whose houses and property were burnt in          communities to better participate in the Government’s forest manage-
     Empoput Forest since the Indigenous Peoples           ment activities, which will continue beyond the closure of the Project.
     Planning Framework for Natural Resources Man-         Spring 2009 Eviction of Sengwer Community Members in Embo-
     agement Project was adopted by Kenya Gov-             but. Through a May 3, 2009 article in the Daily Nation, reporting the
     ernment and World Bank in 2007.                       “eviction? of 450 families, Management became aware of ongoing
                                                           activities by the GoK targeting encroachment into parts of the Embo-
                                                           but Forest.
                                                           Management on May 8, 2009 requested KFS to clarify the extent of
                                                           KFS’s engagement in the mentioned evictions as well as whether
                                                           NRMP financing had been used to cover the operational cost (which
                                                           was not the case) in case KFS forest guards had been involved.




                                                                26
                                             Natural Resource Management Project


N
     Claim/Issue   Response
o.

                   Discussions with senior management of the MoFW and KFS revealed
                   that the April/May 2009 evictions were a result of Government action
                   in response to an ongoing historical dispute over water between
                   communities living downstream from Embobut Forest and those living
                   within the forest. Given the prolonged drought in early 2009, forest
                   encroachment and degradation of the ecosystem and the reduced
                   water flow reaching downstream communities, the latter (not involved
                   in NRMP) were threatening to unilaterally evict upstream communities
                   if the GoK did not take action. Keeping in mind the ethnic violence
                   during the post-election crisis, the GoK tried to avoid an escalation of
                   the matter by organizing community meetings with elders, convincing
                   the majority of people to leave the encroached area voluntarily by
                   providing the prospect of a settlement scheme. Once the alleged en-
                   croachers had left the area, Administrative Police, supported by
                   guards from KFS and KWS, burned the structures to prevent people
                   from returning. People were allowed to remain on land along the road-
                   side until formal settlement was carried out. KFS confirmed that no
                   NRMP funding had been utilized, most community members had left
                   voluntarily and that only in 2 cases had persons refused to leave.
                   Given the prominence these evictions had in the media, political lead-
                   ers (led by the Member of Parliament of Marakwet East) started using
                   their influence to support the development of a strategy to solve the
                   situation. Public pressure was applied to the MoFW, culminating in the
                   Minister establishing a multi-stakeholder Embobut Forest Task Force
                   in June 2009, to help the local GoK agencies to find a lasting solution
                   for the evictees. Eventually and as a result of the Task Force recom-
                   mendations, the majority of those communities identified as eligible for
                   settlement were allowed to return to stay in the seven glades within
                   Embobut Forest, until a lasting resettlement solution was found, but
                   had to adhere to a number of restrictions (including regarding agricul-
                   tural activities) inside the forest.
                   July/August 2010 burning of 8 dwellings in Embobut Forest. On
                   September 29, 2010 Sengwer representatives informed the Bank of
                   an alleged burning of houses and destruction of property belonging to
                   Sengwer IPs in Embobut Forest. Management requested both KFS
                   and the complainants to provide more information on the events. KFS
                   submitted its findings on October 12, 2010; the response from the
                   complainants was received 2 days later.
                   The initial findings of the Embobut incident confirmed that structures in
                   Embobut Forest had indeed been burned. The Bank wrote on Novem-
                   ber 15, 2010 to the MoF: (i) stating its concern and requesting that the
                   GoK comply with the social safeguard documents and refrain from
                   carrying out or planning any eviction exercises without following due
                   process; and (ii) warning that non-compliance could result in remedial
                   action by the Bank. In addition, given the discrepancies in the reports,
                   the Bank decided to dispatch its own Fact-finding Mission (FFM) to get
                   an independent third party account of the situation on the ground (car-
                   ried out November 23-30, 2010). On November 23, 2010 the MoF
                   instructed the line ministries responsible for implementing the NRMP
                   to comply with the requirements set forth in the Bank’s letter.
                   The FFM found a very unclear situation on the ground which did not
                   corroborate either report. It identified a total of 8 dwellings with
                   household property, 5 stores and 3 maize plots, which were burnt
                   and slashed down. It also confirmed that those properties were
                   inside the glade areas and not encroaching into the forest. The
                   FFM noted that while some dwellings and maize fields were de-



                        27
     Kenya


N
             Claim/Issue   Response
o.

                           stroyed, adjacent ones had been spared, which suggests the arbitrary
                           targeting of individuals. Community members indicated that the cir-
                           cumstances that led to the destruction of their property were unclear
                           and associated with victimization and corruption such as extortion of
                           protection money by the individuals carrying out the evictions. Accord-
                           ing to community members’ reports, KFS forest guards, jointly with
                           members of the communities (that is members of the glade commit-
                           tees), engaged in the evictions. Upon inquiry by the Bank, KFS ex-
                           pressed that this action was not a planned or sanctioned eviction, but
                           rather an unauthorized infringement by individual KFS staff members.
                           The FFM collected evidence through: (i) testimonies from 20 individual
                           community members and two focus groups, both including elders,
                           women, children and youths; (ii) interviews with three local
                           KFS/District staff; (iii) a GPS/aerial photography aided ground-truthing
                           exercise within the 3 affected glades: Kesom, Koropkwen and Kaptir-
                           pai.
                           The Bank communicated the findings of the FFM on March 18, 2011
                           to the MoF, emphasizing the need for the GoK to: (i) adhere to the
                           obligations set forth in the social safeguard instruments developed
                           under the Project; (ii) support the development of a PF; and (iii) refrain
                           from carrying out any further evictions of people from their current
                           designated areas (glades) until the PF was in place.
                           In a letter from the MoF dated April 27, 2011 in response to the find-
                           ings of the Bank’s FFM, the GoK confirmed its agreement that: (i)
                           there would be no evictions until alternative settlement was found; and
                           (ii) authorized persons would have access to the forest, including
                           Sengwer community members.
                           The Bank team has followed up on several occasions with the com-
                           munity (including during the PF Consultations in Embobut in April
                           2011) to better understand whether community members affected by
                           the incident are claiming compensation, given that no such claims had
                           been received by KFS. In their response affected community mem-
                           bers expressed no interest in seeking compensation, but rather a de-
                           sire to participate in the CDD-type livelihood activities under the
                           VMGPs prepared with support of the NRMP to receive the related
                           benefits. Community members also expressed that their interest was
                           to be voluntarily and permanently resettled by the Government, which
                           was seen as an ultimate priority.

                           November 2011 burning of one or two dwellings in Kaptir-
                           pai/Embobut. In a letter dated November 5, 2011 from the
                           Cherangany Multipurpose Development Programme (CHEMUDEP),
                           an Indigenous Peoples Organization (IPO) based in West Pokot Dis-
                           trict, to the KFS NRMP Coordinator, the Bank was informed that on
                           October 26, 2011, two houses located in Embobut Forest had alleged-
                           ly been destroyed by KFS rangers. KFS confirmed the incident and
                           explained that it was neither intended nor sanctioned by KFS, but car-
                           ried out unauthorized by a newly posted forest ranger. In a letter dated
                           November 15, 2011 Management requested KFS to put in place a
                           credible set of measures to ensure that such incidents did not occur in
                           the future and proposed to carry out a full assessment of the situation
                           on the ground by a joint Bank-GoK team as part of the NRMP Imple-
                           mentation Support mission.
                           A Bank-KFS team visited the site (located in the Kaptirpai Glade) to-
                           gether with Vulnerable and Marginalized Group Community Commit-




                                28
                                                                                      Natural Resource Management Project


N
                        Claim/Issue                         Response
o.

                                                            tee (VMGCC) representatives on November 29, 2011. Despite the fact
                                                            that the complaint letter by CHEMUDEP indicated the destruction of
                                                            two houses, it was confirmed that one house was burnt down and
                                                            some utensils damaged at another neighboring house. Subsequently,
                                                            a community meeting was organized by KFS, at which the forest
                                                            ranger officially apologized to the affected person and provided com-
                                                            pensation of KES4,000, the amount requested by the affected person.
                                                            The affected person confirmed to the Bank team that the issue had
                                                            been resolved. The community also indicated that the issue had been
                                                            dealt with by KFS and added that CHEMUDEP did not represent the
                                                            community and was not residing in the area.
                                                            The incident tested and confirmed the effectiveness of the grievance
                                                            mechanism established under the Project to enable faster communi-
                                                            cation of issues and quick resolution of conflicts. On the other hand, it
                                                            revealed weak communication between enforcement (to which rang-
                                                            ers belong) and technical staff (to which Zonal Forest Managers and
                                                            Project staff belong) within KFS. The Bank team recommended
                                                            strengthening sensitization and training of forest rangers on ongoing
                                                            developments under the Project in order to ensure compliance with
                                                            Project-related commitments made by KFS. This was carried out in
                                                            the months following the incident.

2.   Arrests of 41 members of Sengwer Indigenous            The cited arrest of community members by the Kenya Police is
     Peoples and 4 local community members in Ka-           not related to the implementation of the NRMP.
     polet forest in 2009. They were taken to police
     cells in Kitale Police Station and later appeared      Management understands that the police arrested community mem-
     before Kitale Law Court where they were charged        bers in a part of Kapolet Forest which is a gazetted forest reserve, and
     with an offence of illegal cultivation of forests      where cultivation of crops is not permitted without a specific permit.
     without permit. It is important to note that Kapolet   Management promptly followed up on the matter with KFS, and
     Forest is one of Sengwer ancestral homes that          learned that it was not related to the NRMP. The incident is consid-
     Sengwer families have been living since time           ered by KFS as an offence under the Forest Act, resulting in govern-
     immemorial till when Kenya became British Colo-        ment action and eventually legal action against the alleged offenders.
     nial Protectorate in 1895.
                                                            It is Management’s understanding that the matter is pending in Kitale
     It is important to note that the ruling of the case    Court. The Bank considers the Kenyan judicial system the appropriate
     involving arrested community members is still          forum for deciding on matters pertaining to law enforcement under
     pending at Kitale Law Courts since 2009. The           Kenyan law.
     arrested members, their families and entire
     Sengwer indigenous peoples have had their fun-
     damental freedoms, human and indigenous rights
     violated. They have been subjected to torture,
     poverty, oppression and segregation as peoples
     within their ancestral lands and while an Indige-
     nous Peoples Planning Framework for Natural
     Resources Management Project is still in force.
     The Sengwer Indigenous Peoples have used
     hundreds of thousands in Kenya shillings to pay
     for legal fees, transport, meals and costs.
     We recommend that-
     d) Kenya Government through the Ministry of
     Forestry and Wildlife (Kenya Forest Ser-
     vice/Natural Resources Management Project)
     compensates members of Sengwer Indigenous
     Peoples who were arrested in Kapolet Forest and
     the case is still pending at Kitale Law Courts




                                                                 29
     Kenya


N
                       Claim/Issue                       Response
o.

3.   Shooting of a woman in Kapolet forest-in 2009       The cited incident is not related to the implementation of the
     when the forest guards entered Kapolet forest to    NRMP. However, Management undertook several attempts to un-
     arrest members of Sengwer families they used        derstand the facts surrounding the alleged incident.
     live bullets. During the shootings, Mrs. Beatrice
     Chepkorir a Sengwer indigenous woman was            As set out in more detail below Management understands that the
     shot from the back and left for death until good    particular circumstances surrounding the alleged wounding of a wom-
     Samaritans took her to Kitale District hospital     an in Kapolet forest by gunshot are still highly disputed and the case is
     where she was admitted and received treatment.      allegedly being dealt with in court.

     We recommend that-                                  During the Social Assessment (SA) in 2010, this matter was brought
                                                         to the attention of the Bank. The consultants carrying out the SA were
     e) Kenya Government through the Ministry of         informed by the Kapolet Sengwer that a Sengwer woman was shot
     Forestry and Wildlife (Kenya Forest Ser-            during the above-cited arrest of 41 Sengwer community members,
     vice/Natural Resources Management Project)          and that the matter became a court case and was still pending in court
     compensates the Sengwer woman who was shot          at the time of the SA in 2010.
     by a forest guard in Kapolet forest in 2009.
                                                         In order to verify this claim with a view to reflecting the situation in the
                                                         SA report, the consultants asked for any documentary evidence (such
                                                         as any written report/complaint by the Sengwer community to the po-
                                                         lice, Chief District Commissioner (DC), or KFS; Police form P3for re-
                                                         porting such incidents; or hospital/medical facility diagnosis, etc.) in
                                                         2010 and again during a supervision mission in 2013. No documen-
                                                         tary evidence could be provided by the community. In addition, the
                                                         consultants were not able to meet the woman, despite repeated at-
                                                         tempts.
                                                         Meanwhile, the KFS Zonal Manager for Trans Nzoia informed the SA
                                                         consultants that, the woman was not shot but that she fell down and
                                                         got hurt as she tried to run away from the people carrying out the evic-
                                                         tions. However, he also had no documentary evidence of such an
                                                         incident having been reported to his office or any other KFS office.
                                                         In February 2013, during a field supervision mission by the Bank team
                                                         the issue of the woman who was shot was again brought up. When
                                                         the team asked for proof of the allegation, it was informed that be-
                                                         cause the matter was pending in court, no documents related to the
                                                         incident could be provided.
                                                         A clarification by a KFS Forest Ranger on 8th February 2013, indicat-
                                                         ed that while KFS had indeed arrested some Sengwer community
                                                         members for encroaching on Kapolet forest, the woman who is al-
                                                         leged to have been shot was not among the people arrested. As such,
                                                         according to KFS there is no case pending in court with regard to the
                                                         alleged shooting incident.
                                                         Management is not in a position to confirm or refute any of the ac-
                                                         counts. However, Management understands from KFS that the al-
                                                         leged victim refused to allow an independent medical examination of
                                                         the injury to help determine whether or not it was indeed a gunshot
                                                         wound.
                                                         Management further understands that the matter is currently in court
                                                         as the alleged victim seeks compensation from KFS. Again, The Bank
                                                         considers the Kenyan judicial system the appropriate forum for decid-
                                                         ing is not in a position to comment on matters pertaining to law en-
                                                         forcement under Kenyan law..

4.   The use of Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups       Management notes that the use of the term “VMGP? does not in
     instead of Indigenous Peoples. The decision by      any way diminish the benefits and protections available under
     Kenya Forest Services and Kenya Government          the policy to the people who meet the eligibility criteria accorded
     to use Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups with      to IPs under OP 4.10. Paragraph 3 of OP 4.10 acknowledges that




                                                              30
                                                                                      Natural Resource Management Project


N
                        Claim/Issue                         Response
o.

     reference to Indigenous Peoples without carrying       there is no universally accepted definition of the term “Indigenous
     out a free prior and informed consultations with       Peoples.? The policy therefore contemplates the possibility of using
     indigenous peoples is a violation of the rights of     alternative terminology taking into account the varied and changing
     indigenous peoples as stipulated in the United         contexts in which IPs live.
     [Nations] Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous
     Peoples, African Charter on Human and Peoples          In the course of supervising the NRMP, the Bank was requested by
     Rights, World Bank Operational Policy 4.10 on          the GoK to use the term “Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups? to be
     Indigenous Peoples, IPPF for Natural Resources         consistent with the terminology of the 2010 Constitution of Kenya.
     Management Project, Social Assessment Report           Although the words “Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups? are not
     for Natural Resources Management Project.              used verbatim in the Constitution; both terms “vulnerable groups? and
                                                            “marginalised groups? are used separately in various sections of the
     It is false for Kenya Forest Service to claim that     Constitution to include indigenous communities. In addition, Article
     the Kenya Constitution refers to Indigenous Peo-       260 of the Constitution interprets “marginalised community? to mean
     ples as Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups. The        and include an “indigenous community.? Finally, Article 21 (3) of the
     Kenyan constitution has got no definition of vul-      Constitution which makes reference to “vulnerable groups? includes
     nerable groups or vulnerable and marginalized          “marginalized communities.? The use of the term “VMGP? does not
     groups.                                                represent any change in the application of OP 4.10 in Kenya and cap-
                                                            tures the spirit of the Constitution.
     We recommend that:
     Kenya Government recognizes and promotes the
     use of Indigenous Peoples as it did while prepar-
     ing Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework and
     Social Assessment Report for Natural Resources
     Management Project and with respect to interna-
     tional human rights instruments e.g. United Na-
     tions Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous
     Peoples, African Charter on Human and Peoples
     Rights and ILO Convention No. 169.

5.   Threats and Intimidation - In Kapolet Forest when      Since actual sub-project sites had not been identified at the time of
     Sengwer families objected to planting of trees,        Project preparation, an IPPF was developed and disclosed in 2006 to
     the then district commissioner of Trans Nzoia          ensure that: (i) communities in the areas selected would not be ad-
     threatened the Sengwer families that you rely on       versely affected; and (ii) measures would be developed and imple-
     an IPPF which is just a mere Memorandum of             mented to mitigate potential negative impacts.
     Understanding. The DC said all these before Mr.
                                                            However, in retrospect, the IPPF posed several implementation
     Muchemi from the World Bank Office -Nairobi.
                                                            challenges. It included a number of undertakings that would re-
     Further, when Sengwer leaders and elders               quire significant policy interventions and multi-agency actions
     pushed effective and efficient implementation of       regarding ancestral and land rights. Specifically, the IPPF included
     the letter and spirit of IPPF for Natural Resources    commitments that the Project was not designed to implement: (i) a
     Management Project -The World Bank Team                commitment to hasten the provision of titles for land presently occu-
     Leader -said that we should be grateful to have        pied and used by these communities in the Project areas, including
     NRMP in Cherangany Hills, because it was not           support for necessary steps (such as land survey and demarcation,
     supposed to be carried out Cherangany Hills. He        registration, and documentation) to ultimately provide IPs in the Pro-
     further said that it is the consultant who was hired   ject area with letters of allotment, group ranch titles, etc.; (ii) a com-
     to prepare an IPPF who covered Cherangany              mitment to establish a comprehensive strategy to rehabilitate the live-
     Hills. He concluded by saying that the NRMP is         lihoods of evicted IPs, to the level of December 30, 2002; and (iii) a
     therefore in Cherangany Hills by default.              commitment for the Project to offer specific assistance within the land
                                                            restitution process to IPs to claim all lands over which IPs have lost
     We recommend that:                                     control between 1895 and December 30, 2002. These measures,
     Kenya Government transfers with immediate              while desirable on their own account, were not related to the mitigation
     effect the current Zonal Manager for Trans Nzoia       of anticipated Project impacts.
     County Mr. Wahome for he has been the main             The Requesters’ reference to the inclusion of Cherangany Hills in the
     person who directed the arrests of members of          NRMP is related to the consultations with Sengwer community mem-
     Sengwer community and shooting of a woman in           bers regarding the rationale for restructuring the NRMP. The Bank
     Kapolet forest in 2009.                                team sought to clarify that the NRMP originally approved by the Bank
                                                            Board in 2007 had been designed without any activities in the
                                                            Cherangany Hills. Neither the PAD nor the Financing Agreement ref-




                                                                 31
     Kenya


N
                       Claim/Issue                       Response
o.

                                                         erences the Cherangany Hills as a Project intervention area. However,
                                                         given that the area had been included in the IPPF, which forms an
                                                         integrated element of Project documentation, in its discussions with
                                                         the GoK, the Bank took the position that it was part of the Project in-
                                                         tervention area. This was formalized in the 2011 restructuring, in order
                                                         to enable a reallocation of credit funds towards the implementation of
                                                         the Indigenous Peoples’ Plans (called Vulnerable and Marginalized
                                                         Groups Plans (VMGPs) under the Project in deference to the Gov-
                                                         ernment-preferred nomenclature) and to allow KFS to use credit funds
                                                         in the area.
                                                         With regard to the IPPF, the restructuring clarifies that:
                                                         “[R]esolving more comprehensive resolution of land issues is beyond
                                                         the remit and time-horizon of the project and will need to be ad-
                                                         dressed as part of the broader Government of Kenya (GoK)-World
                                                         Bank (Bank) dialogue. In this context, the restructured project does
                                                         not propose to address all vulnerability issues associated with IPs’
                                                         land and forest resource access issues. Instead, the restructuring will
                                                         support preparation of IPPs for communities in project areas, focusing
                                                         on livelihoods and community driven development (CDD)-type activi-
                                                         ties.?
                                                         Management acknowledges that the IPPF lacked clarity and triggered
                                                         unrealistic expectations. Despite efforts to eliminate the confusion
                                                         about the role and function of the IPPF, some individuals and groups
                                                         in the communities continue to maintain the view that the IPPF, in
                                                         particular those provisions aimed at clarifying and securing the legal
                                                         status of IPs occupying forest land, needs to be implemented as a
                                                         prerequisite of any NRMP implementation.

6.   Resettlement Plans. The Kenya government            Management understands that Sengwer community members in
     through Kenya Forest Service/Natural Resources      the glades in Embobut have for many years repeatedly requested
     Management Project and Ministry Special Pro-        that the GoK organize resettlement and have stated that this is
     grammes made plans to resettle Sengwer fami-        their most immediate priority. Under NRMP, the SA, preparation of
     lies living in Empoput Forest without carrying      the PF, VMGPs, as well as many field missions, have affirmed the
     effective and efficient free prior and informed     very difficult circumstances that the Sengwer forest dwellers in Embo-
     consultations. There were plans to purchase land    but have been facing from the distant past to the present, and their
     in Kipkapus and Rongai. Also at one point the       desire for an appropriate and consensual resettlement solution.
     community members were asked to look for land
     as individuals. The resettlement plans go against   In arguing that the Bank and NRMP bear responsibility for reset-
                                                         tlement in the Project areas, Management believes the Re-
     World Bank Operational Policy 4.12 on involun-
     tary resettlement.                                  questers may be referring to recently announced plans of the
                                                         Ministry of State for Special Programs to carry out resettlement
                                                         in the Cherangany Hills. Resettlement is planned for Internally Dis-
                                                         placed Persons (IDPs), which includes post-election violence victims,
                                                         the land slide victims from the 1960s and forest evictees (including
                                                         Embobut residents in seven glades). This initiative is wholly inde-
                                                         pendent of NRMP and does not involve KFS. With respect to the cur-
                                                         rent MSSP-led initiative, the Bank has ascertained through discus-
                                                         sions held during February 2013 in the field that Sengwer community
                                                         members currently residing inside the Embobut Forest: (i) are aware
                                                         of and strongly support this initiative; and (ii) understand that it is in-
                                                         dependent of the NRMP.
                                                         Management acknowledges that at the time of Project design, it
                                                         was anticipated that NRMP would play a more direct role in the
                                                         planning and implementation of resettlement of Project benefi-
                                                         ciaries who resided in gazetted forests or had been subject to
                                                         eviction. Consistent with the GoK’s commitments in the IPPF, both




                                                              32
                                                                                     Natural Resource Management Project


N
                        Claim/Issue                        Response
o.

                                                           the PAD and the original Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) for
                                                           NRMP indicate that the Project intended to support activities aimed at
                                                           addressing rights to forest resources, conflict over land and resettle-
                                                           ment. The PAD states that “the project will provide financial resources
                                                           for compensation and/or resettlement? and will put in place frame-
                                                           works for “assessing the rights of persons residing in gazetted forests,
                                                           categorizing the forest encroachers, and selecting the appropriate
                                                           approach for addressing the problem.? The RPF, prior to its revision in
                                                           2011, stated that “sustainable natural resource and forest manage-
                                                           ment is only possible if all stakeholders are taking part and this is not
                                                           possible as long as they have no shelter, land or legal access to land
                                                           and resources. To define how the livelihood can be rehabilitated best,
                                                           the NRM project will commission for each of the evicted communities
                                                           a Resettlement Action Plan in line with the OP 4.12.?
                                                           As explained above, at the time of Project restructuring, Man-
                                                           agement frankly acknowledged to the Board that the approach
                                                           set forth in the IPPF on resettlement and restoration of liveli-
                                                           hoods was overly ambitious and not possible to implement given
                                                           the scope of NRMP’s forest component and the limited mandate
                                                           of its implementing agency, KFS. As a consequence, and con-
                                                           sistent with the explanation given in the Restructuring Paper, it was
                                                           subsequently decided that the Project would not be in a position to
                                                           provide direct support for the resettlement of the Sengwer community
                                                           members to a more permanent location. Instead, NRMP and the Bank
                                                           have assumed an important but more limited engagement on these
                                                           issues by:
                                                           • Securing a Government moratorium on evictions in the Embo-
                                                             but Forest, which has allowed the Sengwer to reside in the glades
                                                             in the Embobut Forest, and enabled them to benefit from the liveli-
                                                             hood enhancement activities of NRMP while awaiting Government
                                                             resettlement.
                                                           • Supporting the completion of VMGPs through an informed and
                                                             consultative process, so that livelihood benefits of Project-
                                                             supported activities in forest areas could begin to be realized.
                                                           • Supporting the GoK Inter-ministerial Task Force on Land and
                                                             Legacy Issues, composed of indigenous groups and government
                                                                        10
                                                             agencies. At the first meeting of the Task Force in November
                                                             2012, a draft work plan was agreed that will be validated among a
                                                             final, larger group including many GoK agencies and IP community
                                                             representatives. VMGCCs participating in NRMP were asked by the
                                                             KFS in 2012, and again in 2013, to nominate representatives to the
                                                             Task Force; the Sengwer CC nominated one community member in
                                                             February 2013.
                                                           • Supporting the preparation of a PF that aims to help communities
                                                             around the forests address issues related to land use and access.
                                                           • Deploying the Management-led dispute resolution approach.
                                                           Although the MSSP-led resettlement initiative is independent of


     10
        It should be noted that the issues dealt with in the Inter-ministerial Task Force on Land and Legacy Issues go be-
     yond the efforts now being addressed by the Inter-ministerial Task Force on IDPs (chaired by MSSP under the of-
     fice of the President), which is focusing on the resettlement of IDPs, landslide victims and forest evictees prior to the
     election.




                                                                33
     Kenya


N
                        Claim/Issue                        Response
o.

                                                           the Project, Management recognizes that it is expected to involve
                                                           and affect the livelihoods of a segment of NRMP beneficiaries.
                                                           The Bank has therefore strongly advised the GoK that any such reset-
                                                           tlement should be conducted in a manner that is consistent with due
                                                           process and international best practice, as reflected in the safeguard
                                                           instruments adopted for NRMP. In recent discussions with the MSSP,
                                                           Management has recommended that the MSSP use the Bank’s safe-
                                                           guard instruments, as this would help support a fair resettlement
                                                           based on free, prior, and informed consultations with the communities.
                                                           The Bank also advised the GoK to document or carry out further con-
                                                           sultations with the Sengwer and other IPs given the decades-long
                                                           persistent disputes over land use and access in the forest zone, and
                                                           the resulting legacy of mistrust. As stated by the MSSP, the Inter-
                                                           Ministerial Task Force on Internally Displaced Persons (IMTF on
                                                           IDPs) and Forest Evictees is tasked with finding land, securing
                                                           agreement of IDPs to resettle, and providing them with resettlement
                                                           assistance as well as livelihoods restoration support.
                                                           Management also asked for more information on the resettlement,
                                                           which is a rapidly evolving and politically sensitive issue during the
                                                           run-up to the elections on 4 March 2013. As of this writing, Manage-
                                                           ment understands that:
                                                           (a) Land in Rongai and Kipkapus was offered to the IDPs and forest
                                                               evictees but was rejected by them and the MSSP no longer con-
                                                               siders this land an option – contrary to what the Request has in-
                                                               dicated; and
                                                           (b) Instead, two pieces of land (totaling 1,400 acres) have been iden-
                                                               tified in Eldoret. Leaders of the IPs/forest evictees have formed
                                                               executive committees and their leaders and Member of Parlia-
                                                               ment (MP) viewed the land and accepted it. This land is currently
                                                               being surveyed.
                                                           (c)   A new law has been enacted, the “Prevention, Protection and
                                                                 Assistance to Internally Displaced Persons and Affected Com-
                                                                 munities Act,? which came into effect February 2013 spelling out
                                                                 specific rights and responsibilities of IDPs and the Government,
                                                                 including that: (i) arbitrary displacement is prohibited and an act
                                                                 punishable under the law; (ii) IDPS have the right to: (1) an ade-
                                                                 quate standard of living (including safe access to essential food
                                                                 and potable water; (2) basic shelter and housing; (3) essential
                                                                 medical services and sanitation; and (4) education; and (iii) that
                                                                 Government shall put into place measures for assistance and
                                                                 protection of IDPs with particular regard to displaced communi-
                                                                 ties with a special dependency on and attachment to their lands,
                                                                 among others.
                                                           Additional pertinent facts are provided in Annex 3.

7.   We have complained to World Bank staff on the         The Project has been supervised adequately, meeting the re-
     following occasions see attached letters by writ-     quirements of OP 13.05, and takes a proactive approach in man-
     ing letters, we have had meetings with NRMP           aging implementation risks.
     WB Team Leader and Country Director. We have
     not been satisfied by explanations given by the       Despite the difficult circumstances surrounding the post-election peri-
     KFS, Kenya Government and World Bank Coun-            od in Kenya, Management has made great efforts to supervise the
     try Office. Further, we feel that World Bank offic-   Project since implementation began. A total of 18 supervision mis-
     ers failed to carry out their supervisory role in-    sions have taken place between November 2009 and February 2013 –
     stead they protected their client even when there     averaging one mission nearly every 2 months as compared to the
     was clear facts and indications that the rights of    usual 6 months. Detail about supervision missions, field trips, work-




                                                                 34
                                                                                     Natural Resource Management Project


N
                        Claim/Issue                      Response
o.

     Sengwer indigenous peoples were being violat-       shops, etc. are included in Annex 4.
     ed.
                                                         Management has been very responsive to letters and communications
                                                         it has received from communities and individuals. Annex 4 contains an
                                                         overview of these communications. The Bank team has also been
                                                         responsive to requests for meetings, both in the field and in Nairobi.
                                                         The Bank team followed up on the cited incidents once it became
                                                         aware of them and has taken up these matters with KFS and informed
                                                         the communities as appropriate.
                                                         The Bank generally followed a strategy of routing enquiries and com-
                                                         plaints through the Project complaints handling mechanism led by
                                                         KFS.
                                                         In addition, multiple, well-attended consultations with the communities
                                                         were held over the years, in which the communities themselves ex-
                                                         pressed very positive experiences with the Project. This is document-
                                                         ed in consultation minutes verbatim and on video.
                                                         In March 2012, Management initiated a comprehensive grievance
                                                         redress mechanism (Management-led dispute resolution approach) as
                                                         discussed above in Item 6:
                                                         (i)    The process has been functional for just under a year and is de-
                                                                signed and supported by a regionally-based independent media-
                                                                tor, internationally regarded as a leading expert in the field of dis-
                                                                pute resolution;
                                                         (ii)   Each project-affected community has developed its own joint
                                                                action plan with KFS/GoK and monitors progress in an open,
                                                                transparent manner; there have been multiple follow-up visits to
                                                                communities on the ground to ensure effective implementation;
                                                         (iii) Key issues relating to procurement and representation of local
                                                               associations have been raised and resolved through the process;
                                                         (iv) The GoK initiated the Inter-Ministerial Task-Force on Land and
                                                              Legacy Issues as a result of this initiative;
                                                         (v)    Local communities have committed to addressing disputes and
                                                                complaints locally and have asked their own community mem-
                                                                bers to seek resolution through the existing leaders and recourse
                                                                structures locally before exiting the agreed process. No one has
                                                                reported that this local remedy is exhausted.

8.   We recommend that:                                  Management notes that the NRMP is currently the only source of
                                                         Bank financing that is providing support to the GoK’s REDD+ Pro-
     World Bank suspends any funding towards             gram, and it consists only of technical assistance for REDD+ readi-
     REDD+ until the said violations, injustices, con-   ness. This assistance should not be suspended because:
     cerns and fears are addressed.
                                                          It is financing REDD+ readiness activities which provide a better
                                                           understanding of the needs, perspectives and priorities of the peo-
                                                           ple residing in the forest, through, for example, a social and envi-
                                                           ronmental assessment, consultations and development of benefits
                                                           sharing options;
                                                          It is not financing any REDD+ activities that could threaten the live-
                                                           lihood of indigenous forest-dependent peoples, such as tree plant-
                                                           ing, carbon sequestration or civil works;
                                                         It is important to note that in December 2012, the Bank received a
                                                         letter from Indigenous Peoples of Kenya requesting the Bank to expe-
                                                         dite its support to the REDD+ Program. This was due to the success



                                                                35
     Kenya


N
             Claim/Issue   Response
o.

                           of the Bank’s earlier support and the broad in-country stakeholder
                           support for the program. A follow up grant is being considered by the
                           Bank.




                                36
                                                                 Natural Resource Management Project


                                      Annex 2.
                    World Bank Actions in the NRMP Project Area in
                      Response to Evictions in Embobut Forest

   1.   It is important to note the complexities involved in the environment and context in which
        NRMP is being implemented. In particular, dealing with the issues touching on evictions
        from Embobut forest is challenging due to the fact that when eviction is undertaken, it is
        not directed towards any particular group – there are 3 groups of people who live in Em-
        bobut forest – and in the process, the Sengwer, Marakwet and other groups who live in
        the forest would normally be affected.

   2.   Also, it is important to note that in the process of implementing a complex project such as
        NRMP, Bank supported projects often experience cross-fire from: implementing agencies
        who tend to resist application of some of the safeguards; Project Affected Persons (PAPs)
        who wish to move ahead with implementation of beneficial livelihoods projects; and oth-
        er PAPs who seek to hold the project back if some demands – including issues outside the
        scope of the project – are not met.

        The interventions by the Bank in 2010 secured a moratorium on evictions of the Sengwer
        IPs in Embobut Forest.

The Fact Finding Mission on Burning of Sengwer Houses in Embobut Forest

   3.   On Sept. 26, 2010, the Bank received a letter from Sengwer Representatives complaining
        about an alleged burning of houses and destruction of property belonging to Sengwer In-
        digenous Peoples in Embobut forest. In response the Bank hired a consultant on Novem-
        ber 10, 2010, to undertake a Fact-finding Mission (FFM) to determine the facts surround-
        ing the allegations. The FFM was motivated by humanitarian and poverty related
        concerns for the IPs on the ground and for purposes of good practice in addition to the
        safeguard policies of the WB. The FFM, which collected testimonies from 20 Sengwer
        community members and held two focus discussions with elders, women and youth, and
        children, found that:

        •   There were 275 Sengwer Households and 1,978 household members residing in 3
            glades in Embobut forest;

        •   8 out of 275 Sengwer owned houses had been burnt between July and August 2010.

   4.   The Sengwer in Embobut forest informed the FFM that, in their view, their current situa-
        tion could be mitigated through:

        •   Provision of basic human needs to sustain their livelihoods;

        •   Consultation by KFS with glade communities when conducting its operation;

        •   Permanent settlement.




                                                37
Kenya


   5.    Note there were different accounts from KFS, the Sengwer, and the Bank mission.

Government of Kenya (GoK)/Ministry of Forestry and Wildlife (MoFW) agrees to a Moratorium
on Evictions

   6.    Based on the findings of the Bank’s FFM and taking into consideration the findings of
         the Government led Embobut Forest Task Force, the Bank wrote to the MoF on Novem-
         ber 15, 2010 asking the Government to comply with the Bank’s safeguard policies, and to
         refrain from carrying out or planning any eviction exercises without following due pro-
         cess. In response, the MoF wrote to line Ministries (Water and Forestry) on November
         23, 2010 to reiterate the Bank’s request for compliance with social safeguard instruments.
         On the same date (November 23, 2010), the MoF wrote to the same ministries and their
         implementing agencies, requesting them to halt evictions and undertake consultations
         with Sengwer and Ogiek on actions that affect them.

   7.    On April 7, 2011, in response to the request by the Permanent Secretary (PS), MoF for
         restructuring of NRMP, the Bank Country Director requested:

         •   Written confirmation “that there will be no further evictions of persons from the for-
             ests in the NRMP areas until appropriate safeguard instruments are in place? includ-
             ing development of Vulnerable and Marginalized Peoples Plans (VMGPs), a Process
             Framework (PF) and if required a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP);

         •   Government response to the Bank FFM and proposed remedial actions;

         •   Government response to allegations of restricting access to forests in NRMP area;

         •   Government to prepare a PF for Grievance and Complaints handling.

   8.    In response to the Country Director’s letter, a meeting was held on April 8, 2011 between
         the Bank and MoF (including the PS and Economic Secretary) on the need for a morato-
         rium on evictions in NRMP forest areas and Project restructuring to include development
         of VMGPs, PF and setting up an Inter-ministerial Task Force to deal with land and reset-
         tlement related complaints in the Project area.

   9.    Finally, on April 13, 2011, the Bank received a copy of a letter from the PS, Ministry of
         Forestry and Wildlife, to the PS, MoF, confirming there would be no further evictions
         from Embobut and denying allegations of intimidation and extortion.

The QACU/LEGEN Mission in Response to Letters of Complaint from the Project Area

   10.   In response to several complaint letters from individuals from the IP communities in
         Cherangany Hills, a field visit was undertaken by a World Bank Team that included a
         Senior Counsel (LEGEN) and Senior Operations Officer (OPCQC) in addition to the
         TTL, the Senior Social Development Specialist and VMPP/PF Consultant. The Mission
         met the Sengwer community members (about 120 people) representing Cherangany Hills
         Sengwer from Trans Nzoia (which included Kapolet forest), West Pokot and Marakwet
         West and East.


                                                 38
                                                               Natural Resource Management Project


11.   Apart from 2 participants, all speakers expressed their great appreciation and support for
      the Project, and willingness to carry on with it. Other speakers stressed to the Mission
      members that the letters of complaint, which were the subject of the Mission, were never
      shared with, or written on behalf of the community or the VMG Coordinating Commit-
      tee. Rather, these letters were the work of the “so called elite and professional group?.

12.   On the other hand, members of the IPs’ “elite and professional group? who met with the
      mission in Nairobi expressed concern that the community members are “illiterate[s] who
      cannot understand the issues at stake.? They also expressed the fact that they were ex-
      cluded from the consultations despite some of them having been in the forefront of lead-
      ing the mobilization and consultation process during the SA.

13.   The mission concluded that the IPs are happy with and supportive of the livelihoods en-
      hancement projects proposed for support under NRMP and would like to move on with
      their implementation. The findings of the mission have been consistently affirmed by
      subsequent missions to NRMP areas in Cherangany Hills and the livelihoods projects in
      Cherangany Hills have undergone the first round of financing. They are currently in the
      second financing round.




                                              39
Kenya


                                            Annex 3

 Current Plans by the GoK through the Ministry of State for Special Programmes
 (MSSP, under the Office of the President) to Resettle IDPs and Forest Evictees
                              (NRMP not involved)

Inter-ministerial Task Force on IDPs and Forest Evictees

   1.   The post-election violence (PEV) in Kenya resulted in a number of Internally Displaced
        Persons (IDPs), some of whom still live in camps. In addition, there are a number of for-
        est evictees (from various gazetted forests such as Mau), some of whom live in camps
        while others such as the Embobut Sengwer continue to live in the glades in the forest
        (following the Bank’s intervention).

   2.   Given the spirit and letter of the Constitution of Kenya 2010, which seeks to redress his-
        torical land injustices, and the commitment of the GoK to implement the Constitutional
        provisions on land and articles dealing with the Marginalized, Minority and Vulnerable
        Groups, including IPs in the NRMP area, and in recognition of and response to the strug-
        gles for land by various communities in Kenya, including the Embobut Sengwer, the
        Government mandated the Ministry of State for Special Programmes (MSSP) to fast track
        the resettlement of PEV IDPs, Forest Evictees and Embobut forest dwellers, who include
        the Sengwer. The President of the Republic of Kenya was reportedly keen to see this pro-
        ject completed as soon as possible.

   3.   In order to carry out this mandate, the MSSP has instituted an Inter-ministerial Task
        Force on IDP and Forest Evictees Resettlement. The core mandate of the Task Force is to
        identify and purchase land, and to settle the IDPs and forest evictees. According to a
        member of the Task Force (from Forestry and Wildlife), the Task Force can only pur-
        chase land when it is clear that it has no cumbrances and when it has been accepted by
        the IDPs or forest evictees/forest dwellers.

   4.   It is against the foregoing background that the Task Force on IDPs and Forest Evictees
        first identified land in Rongai in Nakuru County and Kapkapus in Elgeyo Marakwet
        County. These two pieces of land were deemed not to be acceptable to the Embobut for-
        est evictees and the Sengwer who live in the glades, and the Task Force stopped their
        purchase. Instead, the Task Force has now identified other pieces of land in Eldoret
        which have been inspected by the leaders of Embobut forest dwellers’ Executive Com-
        mittee and their Member of Parliament (MP). These community leaders and their MP
        have accepted the land and the Task Force has accordingly initiated the purchase process.

   5.   The fact that the Task Force stopped the purchase of the Rongai and Kipkapus land in re-
        sponse to the beneficiaries’ concerns shows that it is not only keen to consult the target
        beneficiaries but is also ready to take their views and concerns into account.

   6.   Even though this project is outside the NRMP scope, the Bank’s Safeguard Specialists
        nevertheless met with officials of the Task Force and endeavored to ensure that the sup-
        port that the Task Force proposes to offer to the target resettlement beneficiaries, among



                                                40
                                                                          Natural Resource Management Project


             whom are the Embobut Sengwer, is consistent with the Bank’s safeguard policy on reset-
             tlement, OP 4.12. For example, according to the terms of reference of the Task Force, the
             following benefits will be provided to the resettlement beneficiaries, including the
             Sengwer who are currently living in Embobut Forest:

                •   Transportation to the resettlement site,

                •   Temporary housing as construction of the more permanent housing units is com-
                    pleted,

                •   Social infrastructure including schools, health facilities, water, roads etc.,

                •   Food rations for six months,

                •   Support to parents to enroll their children in nearby schools while their own
                    schools are being constructed, and

                •   Agricultural inputs for livelihoods enhancement projects.

    The GoK has a number of legal instruments in place to guide the resettlement process that pro-
    vides persons to be resettled some fundamental rights and entitlements

        7.   The Prevention, Protection and Assistance to Internally Displaced Persons and Affected
             Communities Act, of 2012, was passed in January 2013 and published February 5, 2013.
             The Act makes “provision for the prevention, protection and provision of assistance to in-
             ternally displaced persons and affected communities and gives effect to the Great Lakes
             Protocol on the Protection and Assistance to Internally Displaced Persons, and the United
             Nations Guiding Principles on Internal Displacement and for connected purposes.? Key
             elements of the Act are summarized in the table below.



Rights-based response to    Government and any other organization, body or individual shall prevent internal
internal displacement       displacement in situations of armed conflict, generalized violence, human rights vio-
                            lations, natural or human-made disasters and development projects.
                            GoK shall raise public awareness, undertake training and education on the causes and
                            impact of internal displacement and means of prevention.
                            IDPs have the right to (i) an adequate standard of living (including safe access to es-
                            sential food and potable water; (ii) basic shelter and housing; (iii) essential medical
                            services and sanitation; and (iv) education, among others.
Prevention of Displace-     GoK shall establish a prevention mechanism to monitor areas inhabited by persons at
ment                        risk of displacement, to be able to take action to prevent internal displacement.
Protection from Dis-        Arbitrary displacement is prohibited and an act punishable under the law.
placement
Preparedness and Mitiga-    Government shall put into place measures and structures to prepare for emergency
tion                        disaster and ensuing internal displacement and mitigate its consequences.
Assistance and Protection   The Government shall put into place measures for assistance and protection needs of
                            IDPs with particular regard to displaced communities with a special dependency on
                            and attachment to their lands and the protection needs of women, children, persons


                                                       41
    Kenya


                          with disabilities, and the elderly and other persons with special needs.
Durable and Sustainable   The Government shall create the conditions for and provide IDPs with a durable and
Solutions                 sustainable solution, including the right of IDPs to make an informed and voluntary
                          decision on whether to return, locally integrate or resettle elsewhere in the country.




                                                     42
                                                                               Natural Resource Management Project



                                        Annex 4
           Timeline of Key Events Related to Safeguards in NRMP Component 2

    Date               Event related to IPs issues                                Bank Action
Dec. 22, 2006   Permanent Secretary of Water confirms in
                writing GoK’s approval of the Safeguard
                Documents (ESMF, RPF and IPPF)
Dec. 28, 2006                                                 Final version of the IPPF cleared by ASPEN for
                                                              disclosure
Mar. 27, 2007                                                 WB Board approval of the Project
Dec. 10, 2007                                                 Effectiveness
Dec. 28, 2007   Elections in Kenya
Jan-Feb 2008    Post-election violence in Kenya
 Apr. 13-19,    Mission to enable re-engagement with the      SPN missions after Bank re-engagement to finalize
 May 19-24,     Project after long start up delay and post-   work plan as well as procurement, FM and M&E
    2008        election violence in Kenya                    issues of the Project, which were identified as areas
                                                              of priority given the long implementation delays.
Aug. 25-30,                                                   During the SPN mission delays in operationalizing
  2008                                                        the social safeguard were identified, requiring
                                                              strengthening social expertise for both the GoK and
                                                              Bank teams
Dec. 15, 2008                                                 Social development consultant identified to work on
                                                              NRMP and WK CDD/FM Project and contract pro-
                                                              cessed on December 15, 2008 to improve its super-
                                                              vision capacity in terms of social safeguards.
Mar. 12, 2009   Formal Launch of NRMP                         Bank staff participate in launch workshop in Nyeri
                                                              NRMP Project
Apr. 8, 2009    IP Representative writes to Bank in re-
                gard to the implementation of IPPF of
                three projects in Kenya (WK CDD/FP
                Project, NRMP and WaSSIP); requesting
                consultations with the Sengwer indicating
                plans of GoK to gazette parts of the
                Cherangany Hills – Kapolet, Kipteeperr
                and Kipkanyar - as a Wildlife/Game Re-
                serve
May 3, 2009     Daily Nation reports on More families
                evicted from public forest referring to
                Embobut Forest (part of the Cherangany
                Hills)
May 6, 2009                                                   Bank acknowledges receipt of the April 8, 2009 let-
                                                              ter to the IP representative, informs about consulta-
                                                              tion and promises to get back to IPs
May 8, 2009                                                   TTL writes to Director KFS to request more infor-
                                                              mation and/or engagement of KFS in above men-
                                                              tioned evictions
May 8, 2009     IP Representatives writes to Bank report-
                ing on the impact the recent eviction had
                on the Sengwer community and requests
                the Bank to intervene (based on the
                [wrong] information) that the evictions

                                                       43
Kenya
     Date               Event related to IPs issues                             Bank Action
                 were financed through Bank projects
May 18, 2009                                                 Bank invites Sengwer IP representatives for a meet-
                                                             ing in Nairobi to discuss their concerns following
                                                             numerous letters to the Bank
  May 25-29,                                                 Bank Team, including the Social Safeguards Con-
    2009                                                     sultant, carried out an Implementation support mis-
                                                             sion to the Project area, affirming that required
                                                             safeguards documents (ESMF, RPF, and IPPF) were
                                                             in place at time of Project effectiveness (December
                                                             2007)
May 29, 2009                                                 Meeting between Bank staff and Sengwer represent-
                                                             atives takes place in Nairobi, chaired by the Country
                                                             Director
June/July 2009   Minister of Forestry and Wildlife estab-
                 lishes the Embobut Forest Task Force to
                 investigate, examine, identify genuine
                 and qualified squatters in Embobut Forest
                 and give recommendations to GoK on
                 “…lasting solutions to restore, conserve
                 and protect the forest…?
 Jul. 23, 2009   Representative of the Sengwer Indige-
                 nous Development Project (SIDP) writes
                 to the Bank (i) informing that the
                 Sengwer will not allow Kenya Wildlife
                 Services (KWS) to gazette Kapolet,
                 Kipteeperr, Kipkanyar and Embobut for-
                 ests, as National Game Reserves; and (ii)
                 requesting a workshop between the
                 Sengwer and WKCDD/FM, NRMP,
                 KAPAP and WaSSIP project staff.
Aug. 13, 2009    Sengwer representative writes to Director
                 KWS (copying the Bank) regarding the
                 lack of consultation on a plan to gazette
                 part of Kapolet, Kipteeperr and Kap-
                 kanyar and Embobut Indigenous Forests
                 as National Game Reserve, indicating that
                 such process would be in violation of the
                 NRMP IPPF.
Aug. 13, 2009                                                Bank writes to the Minister of Forestry and Wild-
                                                             life, copying the Representative of the SIDP, stress-
                                                             ing the need of following due process in implement-
                                                             ing Bank social safeguard instruments as well as the
                                                             fact that non-compliance would affect Bank en-
                                                             gagement with GoK on the Project.
Aug. 14, 2009                                                Bank TTL reiterates to the IAs in writing the need to
                                                             add social development expertise to the NRMP im-
                                                             plementation team
Aug. 26, 2009    Safeguards mission to Embobut               Bank team (including a Social Development Spe-
                                                             cialist, CMU Sr. Country Officer and TTL) travels
                                                             to Embobut Forest to attend Sengwer Community
                                                             Meeting with the aim of ascertaining the level of
                                                             consultations between IPs and NRMP.
 Sep. 30, 2009                                               TTL meets with the then WB IP Advisor to strate-
                                                       44
                                                                               Natural Resource Management Project
    Date                Event related to IPs issues                                Bank Action
                                                               gize and review the implementation arrangement
                                                               and progress of the IPPF under the NRMP.
Oct. 30, 2009    Strengthening the Bank’s safeguard su-        Bank hires local safeguard consultant to support the
                 pervision capacity.                           Bank team in supervising the IPPF implementation.
Nov. 4, 2009                                                   Bank hires international STC to develop a road map
                                                               with respect to implementing the IPPF.
Nov. 26, 2009    Ogiek and Sengwer sensitization work-
                 shops in preparation of the Social As-
                 sessment (SA) to be carried out.
Nov. 30 - Dec.                                                 Bank carries out an implementation support mission
  4, 2009                                                      that includes a Social Safeguards Consultant and the
                                                               International STC. Mission recommends the rollout
                                                               of Social Assessment and Capacity Building of IPs
                                                               and that NRMP move beyond the IPPF and take a
                                                               proactive approach to engage IPs in a participatory
                                                               process so that they can receive Project benefits
                                                               compatible with their cultures.
 Jan. 6, 2010    Embobut Forest Task Force submits its
                 final report to the Minister of Forestry
                 and Wildlife recommending “….settling
                 genuine people who have nowhere else to
                 go temporarily in glades within the forest,
                 awaiting GoK decision on their resettle-
                 ment…?

                 GoK uses it to identify options for reset-
                 tlement of 3,211 families, including the
                 ongoing Ministry of State for Special
                 Programmes (MSSP) led resettlement of
                 IDPs.
 Feb. 11-12,     SIDP complains to KFS in writing against
    2010         the formation of Community Forest As-
                 sociations in Kapolet Forest.
Feb. 22, 2010                                                  Bank TTL attends KFS/Sengwer IP community
                                                               members meeting in Kitale on the issue.
                                                               Following subsequent consultations with the Bank,
                                                               KFS suspends the CFA formation process for the
                                                               Kapolet Forest Area until further notice (to ensure
                                                               that the exercise is done after effective capacity
                                                               building of the IPs).
 Mar. 21-30,                                                   Considering the delays in effectiveness and slow
   2010                                                        implementation, the GOK and Bank agree on an
                                                               early MTR to: (i) critically assess reasons for im-
                                                               plementation delays; (ii) identify existing areas
                                                               where implementation can be accelerated; and (iii)
                                                               restructure the Project in areas where opportunities
                                                               exist to better align components to emerging priori-
                                                               ties.
 Mar. 22 and     Sengwer Community members write to            Following discussions during the MTR between
 Apr. 6, 2010    the Bank complaining that preparations to     KFS and the Bank team, KFS engages with the af-
                 plant trees in Kapolet forest would violate   fected communities and ultimately suspends the tree
                 the NRMP IPPF.                                planting exercise in Kapolet Forest.
Apr./May 2010    SA field work carried out in Cherangany
                                                        45
Kenya
     Date                Event related to IPs issues                            Bank Action
                 and Mt. Elgon Forests areas using the
                 free, prior and informed consultations
                 process.
 Jun. 7, 2010    SA Report finalized and submitted by
                 KFS.
  Aug. 2010      Dissemination of SA report findings and    Bank team observes dissemination workshop orga-
                 recommendations carried out (Mt. Elgon); nized by KFS hired consultants.
                 Inter-community conflicts prevent a con-
                 clusive dissemination/validation for the
                 Sengwer IP community in Cherangany
                 Hills.
Sept. 26, 2010   Sengwer Representatives inform the Bank
                 about alleged burning of houses and de-
                 struction of property belonging to
                 Sengwer Indigenous Peoples in Embobut
                 forest.
Sept. 29, 2010                                              Bank writes to the Sengwer representative acknowl-
                                                            edging receipt of the complaint and requesting fur-
                                                            ther details.
 Oct. 12, 2010   KFS submits its findings regarding the
                 alleged burning of Sengwer property in
                 Embobut.
 Oct. 6, 2012    Executive Director of CHEMUDEP
                 writes a letter to the Bank stating that
                 NRMP does not follow free, prior and
                 informed consultations and about the use
                 of the term VMG instead of IP.
 Oct. 14, 2010   Sengwer Economic, Social and Cultural
                 Council (SESCCO) submits a report (and
                 video) of its findings with respect to the
                 alleged burning of Sengwer property in
                 Embobut.
Nov. 15, 2010                                               Considering the initial findings of the Embobut in-
                                                            cident, the Bank writes to the MoF, stating its con-
                                                            cern and requesting compliance with the social
                                                            safeguard documents; GoK to refrain from carrying
                                                            out or planning of any eviction exercises without
                                                            following due process; and warning that non-
                                                            compliance would result in withdrawal of Bank
                                                            support. In addition, Bank informs about the plan to
                                                            send a fact finding mission.
  Nov. 2010                                                 Given the discrepancies in the two reports, Bank
                                                            hires STC to undertake Fact Finding Mission to de-
                                                            termine allegations of destruction of property and
                                                            houses in Embobut Forest.
                                                            Mission finds that there were 275 Sengwer House-
                                                            holds and 1,978 household members residing in 3
                                                            glades.
                                                            8 out of 275 Sengwer owned houses had been af-
                                                            fected between July and August 2010. Evictions




                                                      46
                                                                                    Natural Resource Management Project
        Date               Event related to IPs issues                                 Bank Action
                                                                  were carried out by a team of Forest Guards and
                                                                  Glade Committees 11 and were perceived as part of a
                                                                  continuous process undertaken whenever a gazetted
                                                                  forest is encroached in violation of standing orders
                                                                  instituted by glade committee.
 Nov. 23, 2010      MoF writes to line Ministries (Water and
                    Forestry) to reiterate the Bank’s request
                    for compliance with social safeguard in-
                    struments.
 Nov. 25, 2010                                                    To overcome the impasse in implementing the IPPF,
                                                                  Bank writes to GoK (MoF) to proposes a restructur-
                                                                  ing of the Project.
 Dec. 01, 2010      MoFW acknowledges the Bank’s concern
                    regarding the implementation of social
                    safeguard instruments, agrees to the FFM
                    and reiterates its readiness to work with
                    the Bank on improving Project implemen-
                    tation.
 Dec. 12, 2010                                                    Implementation Support Mission reiterates the
                                                                  Bank’s concern regarding evictions, agrees on re-
                                                                  structuring of the Project.
 Jan. 17, 2011                                                    Joint GoK/Bank restructuring mission agrees on: (i)
                                                                  a “moratorium? on evictions; (ii) development of a
                                                                  Process Framework (PF); and (iii) advancing the
                                                                  IPPF into IPPs.
Feb. 7 – March      KFS Consultant team in the field to facili-
   5, 2011          tate and support the establishment of IP
                    Coordinating Committees for NRMP ac-
                    tivities (a key recommendation of the
                    SA). VMGCCs are established for all four
                    zones and effectively become the link
                    between the VMGs and NRMP.
     Mar. 4, 2011                                                 Internal Bank meeting on safeguard issues in NRMP
                                                                  including Sector Director, Country Director, Sector
                                                                  Manager, TTL and Soc. Dev. Specialist discusses
                                                                  and agrees on road map for a Project restructuring
                                                                  prior to June 30, 2011.
     Mar. 8, 2011   Sengwer Economic, Social and Cultural
                    Program protests about the establishment
                    of IP Committees in West Pokot, claim-
                    ing that some committee members were
                    not genuine Sengwer IPs. In addition , the
                    letter requests clarification regarding the
                    change in terminology from “Indigenous
                    Peoples? to “Vulnerable and Marginal-
                    ized Groups.?
 Mar. 11, 2011                                                    The Bank’s Task Team meets with KFS and con-
                                                                  sultant team to better understand the process and
                                                                  rational for the March 8, 2011 letter.

11
  Residents of the Embobut forest glades, including Sengwer, have a Glade Committee which helps to ensure that there is no
encroachment.

                                                           47
Kenya
     Date               Event related to IPs issues                                 Bank Action
                                                                The meeting clarified that: (i) the process was bot-
                                                                tom up and transparent; (ii) the selected members in
                                                                the committees had been selected based on pro-
                                                                posals made by the communities; (iii) some individ-
                                                                uals who campaigned to become committee mem-
                                                                bers were not elected. The latter individuals were
                                                                the ones complaining about the process in an at-
                                                                tempt to question the legitimacy of the establish-
                                                                ment of the committees. The received letter seemed
                                                                a deliberate attempt to unravel a process which had
                                                                an outcome unfavorable for them.
Mar. 18, 2011                                                   Bank meets with Permanent Secretary of MoF on
                                                                Embobut FFM.
Mar. 29, 2011    MoF writes to the Bank requesting re-
                 structuring of the NRMP.
 Apr. 7, 2011                                                   Bank responds to PS MoF and requests: (i) written
                                                                confirmation “that there will be no further evictions
                                                                of persons from the forests in the NRMP areas until
                                                                appropriate safeguard instruments are in place? in-
                                                                cluding development of VMGPs, Process Frame-
                                                                work and if required a RAP. Costs to be borne from
                                                                Project funds; and (ii) that GoK provides a response
                                                                to the Bank FFM and proposes remedial actions.
 Apr. 8, 2011                                                   Meeting between WB and Min. of Finance (includ-
                                                                ing PS and Economic Secretary) on NRMP, follow-
                                                                ing up on the request for moratorium on evictions
                                                                and restructuring to include development of VMGs,
                                                                PF and setting up an Inter-ministerial Task Force on
                                                                Land Tenure and Legacy Issues.
Apr./May 2011    KFS Consultant uses the free, prior and
                 informed consultation process to prepare
                 VMGPs and PF, with full participation of
                 VMGCC officials, Provincial Administra-
                 tion (District Commissioners, District
                 Officers and Chiefs) and line agency
                 staff, KFS and VMGs in all four zones of
                 Mt. Elgon (Ogiek) and Cherangany Hills
                 (Sengwer). Draft PF discussed publicly
                 with Sengwer VMGs on May 26, 2011.
  Apr. 10-13,                                                   Safeguards implementation support mission to
    2011                                                        Sengwer Project area of Marakwet, including Em-
                                                                bobut, by Senior Social Development Specialist dur-
                                                                ing the PF and VMGPs development.
 Apr. 13, 2011   Letter from PS MoFW to PS MoF con-
                 firming no evictions from Embobut and
                 rejecting allegations of intimidation and
                 extortion. Letter also clarified that access
                 was denied to forest to three persons who
                 had no ID and refused to state reason for
                 entry into forest.
Apr. 13, 2011    Letter from ED CHEMUDEP claiming
                 NRMP is isolating IPOs; not using free,
                 prior and informed consultations; against
                                                         48
                                                                                Natural Resource Management Project
    Date               Event related to IPs issues                                 Bank Action
                the term VMGs; claims selection of
                VMGCCs not fair.
Apr. 14, 2011                                                  Letter from Bank to CHEMUDEP acknowledges
                                                               receipt; notes issues and request they be raised di-
                                                               rectly with KFS.
                                                               Explains rationale for free, prior and informed con-
                                                               sultations and the use of VMG term. Proposes train-
                                                               ing for KFS staff and VMGCCs, and need to pre-
                                                               pare a PF for dispute/conflict resolution.
 May 2011                                                      Second meeting between Bank staff and Sengwer
                                                               representatives takes place in Nairobi, chaired by
                                                               the Country Director.
 Apr. 11-22,    Training of VMGCCs with the objective
   2011         of enabling effective participation in deci-
                sion-making on all matters affecting them
                and their communities and to play an ac-
                tive role in the implementation of NRMP.
Mar. 19-21,     Regional workshop to discuss and ad-
  2012          vance understanding of key issues of con-
                cern to the Sengwer and Ogiek communi-
                ties among government agencies with a
                view to finding a way forward.
                Participants included representatives of
                Sengwer (Cherangany) and Ogiek indige-
                nous Peoples, different Ministries, NGOs,
                IPOs, KFS, and Bank.
May 17, 2012    Letter from Coordinator of SIDP com-
                plains about “Un-procedural Communica-
                tion and General concerns on NRMP.?
May 20. 2012    Coordinator of SIDP writes to inform the       TTL responds to Coordinator of SIDP and expresses
                Bank that KFS had positively responded         his appreciation for the direct engagement between
                to the concerns he raised in the letter of     IPs and NRMP/SDO which seems to address issues
                May 17, 2012.                                  of concern relatively quickly. This is an illustration
                                                               that through constructive dialogue, issues can be
                                                               resolved amicably, and without delay. He encour-
                                                               aged such engagement among stakeholders, going
                                                               forward.
Jun. 11, 2012   Letter from Coordinator of SIDP to KFS
                asking for release of funds for hole dig-
                ging to enable tea production in Trans
                Nzoia.
Jun. 11, 2012   KFS responds to Coordinator of SIDP
                request informing that unskilled labor,
                including ‘hole digging’ is the responsi-
                bility of the beneficiaries.
                Coordinator of SIDP acknowledges re-
                ceipt of response letter and agrees that
                unskilled labor should be the responsibil-
                ity of the beneficiaries.
Jun. 18, 2012   Letter “Violation of Human Rights on
                Embobut Forest IPs on Resettlement?
                from the Chair of the Marakwet VMGCC,
                complaining about the actions of the Dis-
                                                        49
Kenya
     Date                Event related to IPs issues                             Bank Action
                 trict Commissioner registering permit
                 holder families.
 Jul. 19, 2012                                                TTL writes to KFS on the complaints stating that
                                                              while the complaint is not related to NRMP activi-
                                                              ties it would affect directly NRMP beneficiaries. He
                                                              requests KFS to have an appropriate response and
                                                              actions.
 Jul. 20, 2012   KFS and the District Commissioner (DC)
                 explain that the DC was validating the
                 Embobut census of 2009 and that Reset-
                 tlement was under the Ministry of Social
                 Programs, not NRMP or KFS.
 Aug. 6, 2012    A community member from Marakwet
                 sends a complaint letter to KFS about
                 sub-standard cows supplied to his com-
                 munity.
 Aug. 9, 2012    KFS responds to Marakwet complainant
                 confirming receipt of the complaint.
Sep. 6, 2012                                                  TTL writes to Complainant assuring him that a joint
                                                              mission of the Bank and GoK will visit the Project
                                                              area to learn more and that the Bank looks forward
                                                              to further cooperation on implementation of the
                                                              VMG Plans and a resolution on this particular pro-
                                                              curement/quality issue, using the proper channels as
                                                              nobody wishes to shortchange any community. TTL
                                                              and Complainant follow up with a phone conversa-
                                                              tion in the subsequent days confirming this under-
                                                              standing and emphasizing use of the local Project
                                                              grievance mechanism directly with KFS if such
                                                              problems persist.
                                                              A field mission in late September 2012 looks into
                                                              this issue and confirms that, while the community is
                                                              pleased with livelihoods inputs provided under their
                                                              own VMG plan, there are some procurement/quality
                                                              issues that need resolution.
Sep. 11, 2012    KFS respond to Marakwet complainant,
                 requesting him to channel the complaint
                 through the GRM.
Sep. 11-12,      Marakwet complainant expresses his dis-
2012             satisfaction with the response, as his
                 complaint involves the VMGCC.




                                                         50
                                                                                                                                                          Natural Resource Management Project


                                                                                             Annex 5


    Free Prior and Informed Consultations Process for Social Assessment (SA), Process Framework (PF) and Vulnerable and
                                             Marginalized Groups Plans (VMGPs)

    1. The Social Assessment (SA) Process: Consultations with Sengwer and Ogiek IPOs and IPs

Step 1: April 18, 2010: IPOs Participated in Planning for how to involve Sengwer and Ogiek IPs actively in the SA Process
Output                                                    IPOs Represented                                                                                  IPO Leader
IPOs sensitized on:                                       • Sengwer Indigenous Development Project (SIDP)                                                   Chairman (also Chairman of the VMGP
•   Free, prior and informed consultations process                                                                                                          Coordinating Committee
    required for the SA process
•   Need for active participation of Sengwer and          • Cherangany Multipurpose Development Programme (CHEMUDEP)                                        Chairman
    Ogiek IPs in the SA
•   Need for active participation of IPO leaders in       • Sengwer Kapolet Land Allocation Committee                                                       Chairman
    the SA process
•   Identified Sengwer and Ogiek villages in the          • The Sengwer Spokesman                                                                           Chairman
    Cherangany Hills and Mt Elgon in which to con-        • Sengwer Cultural and Information Centre; Sengwer Cherangany Cultural Group;                     Chairman
    duct SA                                                 Cherangany Sengwer Consolidated Bonds (Endowment Bonds and Trust Bonds)
•   Agreed on IPOs’ responsibilities for mobilizing
    Sengwer and Ogiek IPs to participate in SA
•   Kick started SA process with full participation       • Talau Location Sengwer Youth Representative                                                     Chairman
    and support of the Sengwer and Ogiek IPO lead-        • Sengwer Traditional Group
    ers
                                                          • Marakwet West District Chairman and Kapcherop Water Project                                     Chairman
                                                          • Chepkitale Indigenous Development Programme (CIDP) and Chepkitale Trust Land                    Chairman

Step 2: April 19 to May 6, 2010: Implementation of the SA in Cherangany Hills According to Plan Developed by IPO Leaders
•   A total of 1,045 Sengwer and Ogiek IPs consulted in 12 public forums covering a total of 57 Sengwer and Ogiek villages and two feedback, verification and validation [of initial findings] work-
    shops. Breakdown is below.
District                        IPO Leader Responsible for Mobili-        Name of IPO                                                                                               No of IPs Con-
                                zation of IPs                                                                                                                                       sulted
Trans Nzoia District            Chairman                                  Sengwer Indigenous Development Project (SIDP)                                                             75
West Pokot District             Chairman                                  Cherangany Multipurpose Development Programme (CHEMUDEP)                                                  167
Marakwet                        Chairman                                  Sengwer Indigenous Development Project (SIDP)                                                             364
                                                                          Councilor and Marakwet West District Chairman
Mt Elgon                        Chairman                                  Chepkitale Indigenous People Development Programme (CIPDP)                                                316
    •      Participation in the feedback, verification and validation workshop in Cherangany Hills                                                                                  64
    •      Participation in the feedback, verification and validation workshop in Mt Elgon                                                                                          59

                                                                                                     51
Kenya
Total No of Sengwer and Ogiek IPs Consulted during the SA process in Cherangany Hills and Mt Elgon                                                                           1,045
Outputs of the SA Process
Three main outputs:

1.   IPs sensitized on the objectives of NRMP and the purpose of free, prior and informed consultations;
2.   IPs sensitized on the objectives of the SA, how its findings would help IPs and KFS, and the need for their full participation in the process;
3.   IP views, knowledge and perceptions collected on:
           o Historical background of the Sengwer;
           o Current production systems of the Sengwer;
           o Sketch maps drawn by participants showing their historical and current areas;
           o Project stakeholders according to IPs participating in the SA consultative meeting;
           o Perception of participants on the possible positive and adverse effects of the Project;
           o Measures and strategies for avoiding, reducing, minimizing or compensating adverse impacts of the Project on IPs;
           o Level of support for the Project by IPs;
           o Level of knowledge by IPs of the IPOs that speak on their behalf, and their impact on IPs;
           o Level of knowledge and understanding of the IPPF by IPs;
           o Communication strategy that should be adopted by KFS for implementing the Project;
4.   IPs produced sketch maps of their current and historical territories and livelihood production activities they are engaged in;
5.   Initial findings of the SA (on above) verified and validated by IPs through selected representatives from each consultation forum.



     2. Consultation Process for the Development of Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups Plans (VMGPs) and Process Framework (PF) in
        Cherangany Hills and Mt Elgon: 7th April to 28th July 2011
Step 1: 28 Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups Coordinating Committee (VMGCC) Officials – 11 from Mt Elgon and 17 from Marakwet Participated in Planning for how to involve the Sengwer and
Ogiek IPs in the VMGPs and PF Development Consultation Process
Output
1. VMGCC officials sensitized on:
•     Purpose of the VMGPs and PF
     Free, prior and informed consultations process necessary for the development of the VMGPs and PF
•    Need for active participation of Sengwer and Ogiek IPs in the VMGPs and PF development
•    Need for active participation of VMGCC leaders in the VMGPs and PF development process
•    Identified Sengwer and Ogiek villages in the Cherangany Hills and Mt Elgon respectively in which to carry out consultations for the VMGPs and PF development
•    Agreed it was the responsibility of the VMGCCs to mobilize Sengwer and Ogiek IPs to participate in the VMGPs and PF development process
•    Kick started the VMGPs and PF process with full participation and support of VMGCC leaders in each of the two areas (Mt Elgon and Marakwet in Cherangany Hills)

Step 2: Consultations Leading to the Development of PF and VMGPs in Mt Elgon and Cherangany Hills
•    A total of 1,543 Sengwer and Ogiek IPs participated in 17 Consultation forums (including 2 VMGP planning workshops covering 3 days each) in Cherangany Hills and Mt Elgon. In each Pro-
     ject zone, the process was spearheaded by the respective VMGCCs. Breakdown is below.
District                                     No of IPs Consulted
Trans Nzoia District                         71                               Consultations were for development of PF only
West Pokot District                          157                              Consultations were for development of PF only
Marakwet                                     909                              Consultations were for development of both PF and prototype VMGP
Mt Elgon                                     406                              Consultations were for development of both PF and prototype VMGP
Totals No of IPs consulted                   1,543


                                                                                                    52
                                                                                                                                                           Natural Resource Management Project
Step 3: Disclosure of the PF and VMGPs in Cherangany Hills and Mt Elgon
     •    A total of 425 IPs participated in public forums to disclose PFs and VMGPs in Cherangany Hills and Mt Elgon as shown below
Date                         Activity                                                                                                             No of IPs Participating
May 26, 2011                 Disclosure of PF                                                                                                     170 Sengwer from Marakwet, Trans Nzoia and West
                                                                                                                                                  Pokot
July 28, 2011              Disclosure of VMGP                                                                                                     101 Sengwer from Marakwet
July 31, 2011              Efforts are made to publicly disclose the PF and VMGP in Mt Elgon but the disclosure did not happen as the             154 Ogiek of Mt Elgon
                           CIPDP IPO leader, the VMGCC and IPs insisted that while they have no problems with the 2 documents which
                           they participated in developing, they could not be disclosed until outstanding pre-Project issues of access and land
                           are resolved. This was in spite of the VMGCC having given the date for this purpose.

Outputs of the SA
Three main outputs:
1. PFs for Cherangany Hills and Mt Elgon
2. Two prototype VMGs – one for Marakwet and the other for Mt Elgon
3. Successful disclosure of PF and VMGP in Cherangany Hills




                                                                                                  53
Kenya
                              Annex 6. Component Two – Disclosure of Safeguard Instruments for the NRMP

    Document name                          Report       Disclosed?           Comments
                                           prepared
                                           when?
    Indigenous Peoples Planning frame-     July to      December 1, 2006     Report noted that both Ogiek and Sengwer participated actively in consultative meetings
1   work for the Western Kenya Communi-    December     in Bank website      and consultations for the SA IPPF for NRM and Western Kenya IPPF went beyond fea-
    ty Driven Development and Flood Mit-   2006                              tures of an IPPF to almost represent IPP.
    igation Project and the Natural                                          Workshop on IPPF – Sengwer represented by the Chairman, Sengwer Cherangany Hills
    Resource Management Report                                               Forest Conservation. Sengwer Consultations also held with: the Chairman, Sengwer In-
                                                                             digenous Development Project; the Chairman, Sengwer Cherangany Cultural Group.
                                                                             Meetings held in Talua, Kamologon in Embobut Forest and in Kapolet Forest with the
                                                                             resp. of the Sengwer Land Allocation Committee, Sengwer Health Centre, Sengwer
                                                                             Youth Committee and Sengwer Water, Sanitation and Environment Committee).
                                                                             Nov. 2009 WB consultant makes recommendations to improve the implementation of
                                                                             OP 4.10.
2   Social Assessment for NRMP             April –      Public Forum June    Prepared in a participatory manner. 5 IPOs and about 1,045 people involved in consulta-
                                           May 2010     2011                 tions.
    VMGP of Mt Elgon Region (Ogiek)        Completed    Public Fo-           Two Prototype VMGPs were developed.
                                           July 2011.   rum/Community        Mt. Elgon submitted its request for funding for VMGP livelihoods activities.
                                                        barazas, June 2011
    VMGP for Marakwet (Sengwer)            Completed                         VMGPs developed in a highly participatory manner. Sengwer communities in West
                                           in August                         Pokot, Trans Nzoia and Marakwet are now receiving the second round of funding of
                                           2011                              livelihood activities.
3   Resettlement Policy Framework for      2006         July 20, 2006        A joint RPF was done for NRM and Western Kenya in 2006. Developed initially in Jan-
    Western Kenya CDD and NRMP                                               uary 2007.
4   Updated Resettlement Policy Frame-     May 2011     May 1, 2011          The 2007 RPF updated for the NRMP only.
    work for NRMP
5   Process Framework for NRMP in Mt.      Dev.         Third Draft sub-     The restructured Project prepared a stand-alone Process Framework (PF) which was
    Elgon and Cherangany Hills             April-May    mitted to Bank       originally included in the 2007 RPF. Validation and public disclosure with communities
                                           2011         October 2012. To     held: Discussed and disclosed Marakwet, Trans Nzoia and West Pokot. May 26, 2011.
                                                        be disclosed Feb     KFS, however, had concerns with certain aspects of the documents and wanted a tool
                                                        2013.                that (i) went beyond an IP focus and could be applicable to all PAPs beyond IPs and (ii)
                                                                             could be mainstreamed into KFS governance structures. A third draft was prepared and
                                                                             submitted to Bank October 2012. KFS wished to test and pilot the PF however, after
                                                                             internal discussions, KFS decides to defer testing the PF and draft grazing guidelines.
                                                                             After satisfying itself that document meets its concerns KFS submits document to PF in
                                                                             February 2013.




                                                                                  54
                                                                                                   Natural Resource Management Project



                                             Annex 7: Project-level GRM Process


                  •Affected group or individual reports case to the VMGCC. If possible they try to resolve the
                   issue internally, if not possible, they will document the case (incl. date, incidence, people
                   involved, steps taken towards conflict resolution etc) and follow the following process:
                   •Discuss the issues with the aggrieved party in order to determine the validity of the complaint and
      Step 1:       the options for dealing with it and attempt to solve it as a Committee;
                   •If not able to address complaint, apply the traditional conflict resolution mechanism whereby the
     VMGCC          matter is brought to the Council of Elders or to the administratively recognised Village Elder system
                    used by the Provincial Administration at the Sub-Locational Level. If there is failure at this level, then
                    the issue goes to Step 2.

                 •VMGCC reports case (in writing and in as much detail as possible) to KFS ZM with cc to the
                  Head of Conservancy, within 30 days of the incidence (this must be done in hardcopy, in
      Step 2:
                  addition, a soft-copy can also be sent by email);
       KFS       •ZM to send written response to confirm receipt within 5 days of receipt;
     ZM/HOC      •ZM or HOC to respond to case (in writing) within 14 days of receipt: report on progress, next
                  steps and actions, if any, to be taken to resolve the grievance;


                 •If at step 2, case is not satisfactorily resolved at ZM/HOC level, then VMGCC will write an
                  appeal letter to KFS HQ to assist in solving the problem;
      Step 3:
                 •HQ will confirm receipt within 7 days of receipt;
      KFS HQ     •HQ to respond to case within 30 days of receipt: report on progress, next steps and actions, if
                  any, to be taken to resolve the grievance;



                •If after that the case is still not satisfactorily resolved for either party, then VMGCC and KFS
      Step 4:    will agree on an independent mediator or arbitrator (e.g., Church organisations, Kenya
    Mediation/ National Commision on Human Rights, etc.) to mediate/arbitrate between the two parties
    Arbitration and resolve the outstanding grievances. The VMGCC and KFS agree on a joint approach to
                 the choice of arbiter.


I




                                                                     55
