                                                                                                      80149
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTION PANEL                         1818 H Street, N.W.                    Telephone: (202) 458-5200
                                                           Washington, D.C. 20433   Fax : (202) 522-0916
                                                           U.S.A.                   Email: ipanel@worldbank.org


   Eimi Watanabe
   Chairperson

                                                                               IPN REQUEST RQ 13/02

                                                                                           August 1, 2013


           MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND ALTERNATES
              OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                                     Request for Inspection
                      KENYA: Natural Resource Management Project (P095050)


         Notice of Receipt of a Second Request Concerning the Project and Recommendation
                 to Process the Request in Connection with the Ongoing Investigation


      1. On June 28, 2013, the Panel received a second Request for Inspection concerning the Kenya:
         Natural Resource Management Project (NRMP). The Request was submitted by four
         representatives of the Cherangany Indigenous Peoples Community on behalf of people living
         in the area known as Cherangany Hills.

      2. The first Request regarding the NRMP was submitted on January 14, 2013 by individuals
         from Sengwer communities living in the Cherangany Hills. The first Requesters asked the
         Panel to keep their identities confidential. The Panel registered the first Request on January
         30, 2013. On March 15, Management submitted its Response and on May 29, 2013 the Panel
         issued its Report and Recommendation in which it recommended that the Board of Executive
         Directors authorize the Panel to carry out an investigation of the matters included in the
         Request. The Board approved the Panel’s recommendation on June 7, 2013. The Panel is
         currently in the early stage of its investigation.

      3. The second Request states that the Cherangany Indigenous Peoples Community has suffered
         harm as a result of World Bank failures or omissions in the NRMP. The Requesters claim
         that they suffered “Community Identity Crisis” as a result of the “non recognition of the
         Cherangany Indigenous Peoples Community by the Kenya Forestry Service (KFS) and the
         World Bank who have not yet determined the real indigenous peoples.” They add that there
         are distortions in Project documents, such as the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework
         (IPPF) and the Social Assessment (SA), as to who are “the rightful owners of the
         Cherangany Hills Territory”. As a result, they claim that they suffer a sense of loss of
         identity, territory, social and cultural status. According to the Requesters, the Project did not
         recognize the Cherangany Indigenous Peoples Community as indigenous peoples affected by
                                            2


   the Project, while Sengwer people were included. This, they state, has created “unfair
   competition and conflicts which might lead to internal friction and tribal war from
   prospecting tribes”.

4. Furthermore, the second Request raises claims similar to the ones in the first Request – i.e.
   the harmful change of terminology from “indigenous peoples” to “vulnerable and
   marginalized groups”, evictions of peoples from the forest without free, prior informed
   consultations, and lack of disclosure of key project documents.

5. They state that they have brought their concerns to the World Bank but have been sidelined;
   that “there was a predetermined intention to sideline and totally misinform” of the rights of
   Cherangany Indigenous Peoples.

6. They request the Panel to carry out an investigation of these matters.

7. After careful review of the second Request the Panel has concluded that, at the time the
   second Request was submitted, it met the basic requirements for registration and that for
   reasons of economy and efficiency, the second Request should be processed jointly with the
   first Request and within the context of the investigation already approved by the Board.
   Hence, the Panel will not issue a Notice of Registration and ask for a separate Management
   Response, but will provide copies of the second Request to Management and ask for any
   comments or information that the Panel should consider in relation to the new Request.
        
8. Subject to the Board’s approval, the Inspection Panel would proceed as follows:

       a) verify the technical eligibility of the Requesters and the Request during the
          investigation visit to be conducted in the context of the investigation already
          approved by the Board;

       b) if technical eligibility is confirmed,  address the claims presented in this additional
          Request in the context of the Investigation Report to be submitted to the Board as a
          result of the investigation already approved by the Board;

       c) advise the new Requesters accordingly and share this Notice with them (the Notice
          and the Request will be posted on the Panel’s website) .

9. The Panel has consulted with Management on the above.
      ANNEX I
Second Request for Inspection
                                               Page 1
                                                                        th
To Executive Secretary                                Dated Friday, 28 June, 2013.
The Inspection Panel
1818 H Street, NW,
Washington DC 20433, USA

1.We Barnabas Ngesemwo, Amos Ronoh Chesuswa,Joseph K Kiptum, William Kipkwen, Benson
Kenyatta Krop and Barnabas Kibet live and represent others who live in the area known as
Cherangany Hills which is the Natural Resources Management Project(NRMP) area Financed by the
World Bank. Our addresses are attached.

2. We have suffered and likely to suffer harm as a result of the World Bank's Failures or Omissions in
the Natural Resources Management Project(NRMP) located in the Cherangany Hills, in Kenya.

3. The damages and harm we have suffered and still suffering from are:

  (i) We have suffered Community Identity Crisis: The non recognition of the Cherangany Indigenous
Peoples Community by the Kenya Forest Service (KFS) and the World bank who have not yet
determined the real indigenous peoples. The reports continue distortions on the rightful owners of the
Cherangany Hills Territory, example, the description given on the Community on the ground despite
interaction with them at various forums and written communications.

 (ii) We suffered harm on Community Territorial identity through the World Bank funded Write-ups and
Documentations in the following Documents:

     (a) The Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework (IPPF);
     (b) The Social Assessment (SA) Report.
     (c) Water Supply and Sanitation Improvement Project (WASSIP) etc.;

Which reports are the sources of the dilemma and falsehoods now leading to the current extinguishing
of the Cherangany Indigenous Peoples fundamental and inherent Human Rights which have been
Violated by the World Bank financed Project.

  (iii) We now suffer a sense of loss of identity, territory, Social and Cultural Status, and general
disillusionment and fatigue of the now dejected and apathy filled Cherangany Indigenous Peoples
Community of Cherangany Hills which the government of Kenya and the World Bank have not
recognized, which is a deliberate attempt and Omission and an infringement of the inherent human
Rights of these IP Community.

  (iv) The chasing of the Cherangany Indigenous Peoples Community participants at a KFS/World
Bank Consultant's mobilization site at Kabolet which is also a Cherangany IP's Territory on 19th April,
2010 by claiming she wanted Sengwer only which heightened the division of the Community even
further and was the worst Social Assessment Consultancy Service funded by the World bank, which
together with the IPPF's distortions have brought about continued information blackout on the real
territorial owners i.e the Cherangany Indigenous Peoples Community which will suffer markedly in the
absence of factual verification and reporting. This problem is now being disseminated by both Kenya
government and the World Banks' documents and publishing in the World Wide Web Sites hence
harming and damaging our existence as a people.

  (v) Misinforming the World by both Kenya government and the World Bank officers that Cherangany
is only hills and not a people, which is wrong and most disenfranchising and has now also brought
about unfair competition and conflicts which might lead to internal friction and tribal war from
prospecting tribes, as people now scramble to exploit resources in total disregard of whose territory it is
or whose it belongs, which have come about as a result of the World Banks' financing.

                                                Page 2

  (vi) We have suffered because there was no disclosures of the KFS/World Bank Documents ranging
from IPPF, Social Assessment (S.A) Report etc. for correction and ownership but when queries were
being raised during some unspecified meetings, on questioning the veracity of the documents, the KFS
officers, the Consultant, and the Bank Officials became alarmists and inciters lying and maintaining a
mind set in the process as happened at Sibanga Maili -Nane (kipkisoi) while trying to correct the name
issue in one such forums.

   (vii) The initial itinerary prepared by KFS/Consultant was most weird and seems pre- conceived to
initiate blame and sidelining of the Cherangany IP Community, this was a tactically instigated plan by
KFS Consultant to create the illusion and the basis for disregarding or tarnishing the Indigenous
Peoples Organizations (IPOs).
   (viii) The change of terminology from Indigenous Peoples to Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups is a
lie by government officers who say that the name Indigenous Peoples is not in the Constitution of
Kenya yet that name is in the Constitution. Some of the government’s Officers have come to realize
this too late while KFS and World Bank are still stack in it.
   (ix) Our IP Community has been evicted from forests without FPIC (Free, Prior and Informed
Consultations) on resettlement and our people are now living on small patches of forest glades as
squatters.

  (x) The government having failed to involve our IP Community in participating in Policies and
Legislation that will impact on them negatively especially the Forests Act now still ongoing, yet the IPs
are not represented.

4. The World Bank's operational policies we believe have not been observed are:
   (i)The OP 4.10 - On Indigenous Peoples and;
   (ii)The OP 4.12 - On resettlement.

We have complained to World Bank on various occasions and dates complaining about some issues
among which was the name issue as prominent, and which is most controversial; but the Bank has
virtually failed us in this; hence putting the entire Cherangany Indigenous Peoples Community into a
very awkward and dangerous position on their fate for the present and future generations of this
Cherangany IP Community. All these facts are available for verification and we would want to meet the
Inspection Panel to inform them of the facts while providing evidence of what they may be asked for.
The responses and explanations from Bank Officials have always not been satisfactory or completely
misinform or distort facts exposing our IP Community to so many risks and suffering.

 This is because though the Cherangany Indigenous Peoples Community Leaders and Organization
(CHEMUDEP) had written complain letters on behalf of the Cherangany IP Community to the
government Agency i.e (KFS) and the World Bank severally, the responses from both have been utterly
mischievous and doctored, which means there was a predetermined intention to sideline and totally
misinform the World of the Cherangany IPs fundamental Rights and Freedoms; hence, existence.
                                                                                 th
Please see the attached Cherangany Council of Elders complain letter of 09 April, 2011, and that of
the Cherangany Multipurpose Development Programme (CHEMUDEP) IPO (Indigenous Peoples
Organization) which Organization has been sited in your World Bank reports and documents as a
Sengwer IPO which is false; yet the name attests to itself indicating that it is a Cherangany Indigenous
Peoples Organization which was acting on its behalf; why the distortion? For these and other
evidences on Historical background, we reserve for your field fact finding inspection mission.

We request the Inspection Panel recommend to the World Bank's Executive Directors that an
investigation of these matters be carried out.

Please find our Contacts and signatures below.
                                         Page 3
Contact Address:
Barnabas Ngesemwo
P.O Box 280
Kitale.
Tel no. Mobile: 0722217482
Keiyo/Marakwet County.


William Kipkwen
P.O Box 98
Kapsara.
Tel no. Mobile: 0712507042
Trans Nzoia County.


Benson Kenyatta Krop,
P.O.Box 174
Kapenguria
Tel no.Mobile: 0722704262
West Pokot County

Joseph K Kiptum
P.O. Box 280
Kitale.
Tel no. Mobile: 0712568429
Keiyo/Maraket County

Amos R Chesuswa
P.O Box 152
Kapenguria
Tel no Mobile: 0712498952
West Pokot County

Barnabas Kibet
P.O Box
Kapcherop
Keiyo/Marakwet County

We attach our Signatures here aside as a scanned hand written copy, today Friday, June 28, 2013.


  1. Attached also is the Cherangany Council of Elders Complain Letter of 09th April, 2011.
  2. Other Complain letters have not been attached but have been reserved for your field visiting
     day.
