 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
          International Development Association



                                                         INSP/89369-KE




MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION

              IN RESPONSE TO THE

 INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT




                       KENYA

NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
          (IDA Credit No. 42770)




                     July 7, 2014
           MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
   IN RESPONSE TO THE INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT
                               OF THE
                               KENYA
            NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                   (P095050) (IDA Credit No. 42770)



Pursuant to paragraph 23 of the Resolution Establishing the Inspection Panel (IBRD Resolution
93-10 and IDA Resolution 93-6), attached for consideration by Executive Directors is
Management’s Report and Recommendation in response to the findings set out in the
Investigation Report No. 88065-KE dated May 22, 2014, of the Inspection Panel on the captioned
Project (Kenya Natural Resource Management Project, P095050, IDA Credit No. 42770).
iv
                                                                                Management Report and Recommendation


               MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
                          IN RESPONSE TO THE
           INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT NO. 88065-KE

                                     KENYA
                      NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                                    (P095050)


                                                          CONTENTS

Abbreviations and Acronyms ............................................................................................ vi 
I.        Introduction ............................................................................................................. 1 
II.       The Project .............................................................................................................. 2 
III.      Special Issues .......................................................................................................... 5 
IV.       Summary of Panel Findings .................................................................................... 9 
V.        Response to Findings by the Panel ....................................................................... 11 
VI.       Management’s Action Plan in Response to the Findings ..................................... 16 
VII.      Conclusion ............................................................................................................ 18 


Annexes:
Annex 1. Findings, Comments and Actions




                                                                 v
Kenya




        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BP         Bank Procedures
CDD        Community Driven Development
CFA        Community Forest Association
GoK        Government of Kenya
GRM        Grievance Redress Mechanism
IDA        International Development Association
IDP        Internally Displaced Persons
IP         Indigenous Peoples
IPN        Inspection Panel
IPP        Indigenous Peoples Plan
IPPF       Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework
KFS        Kenya Forest Service
MoFW       Ministry of Forestry and Wildlife
NGO        Nongovernmental Organization
NIB        National Irrigation Board
NRMP       Natural Resource Management Project
OMS        Operational Manual Statement
OP         Operational Policy
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PDO        Project Development Objectives
PFM        Participatory Forest Management
RAP        Resettlement Action Plan
RPF        Resettlement Policy Framework
SA         Social Assessment
VMG        Vulnerable and Marginalized Group
VMGP       Vulnerable and Marginalized Group Plans
WRMA       Water Resources Management Authority




                        vi
                                    I. INTRODUCTION

1.      On January 30, 2013, the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection, IPN
Request RQ 13/02, concerning the Kenya Natural Resource Management Project (“the
Project”) financed by the International Development Association. The Request for Inspection
was submitted by individuals from Sengwer communities who live and represent other
members who live in four areas of the Cherangany Hills in the western highlands of Kenya,
namely the Kapolet Forest (in Trans-Nzoia District), Talau and Kaipos (in West Pokot
District), and Embobut Forest (in Marakwet District) (hereafter referred to as the
“Requesters”).

2.      On June 28, 2013 the Panel received a second Request submitted by four
representatives of the Cherangany Indigenous Peoples Community on behalf of people living
in the Cherangany Hills. On August 1, 2013, the Panel requested the Board to approve the
Panel’s recommendation to process this Request as part of the ongoing investigation relating
to the first Request for Inspection. The Panel proposed to verify the technical eligibility of the
Requesters and the Request during the planned investigation visit. The Board approved the
Panel’s request to process the second Request jointly with the first Request and, if deemed
eligible, that the Panel address the claims presented in this additional Request in the context
of the already approved investigation.

3.      The Executive Directors and the President of IDA were notified by the Panel of
receipt of the Request. The Management responded to the claims in the Request on March 15,
2013.

4.     In its Report to the Board, the Panel found the Request eligible and recommended that
the Executive Directors authorize an investigation. The investigation was authorized by the
Executive Directors on June 7, 2013.

5.      On May 22, 2014, the Panel issued its report outlining the findings of the
investigation. Management appreciates the Panel’s clear and thorough presentation of its
findings. This report, responding to the findings of the Panel, is organized as follows: Section
II presents the Project; Section III discusses special issues; Section IV provides a summary of
the findings of the Panel; Section V contains Management’s response to the Panel’s findings;
Section VI presents Management’s Action Plan in response to the Panel’s findings, and
Section VII contains the conclusion. The Panel’s findings, along with the Management’s
responses, are described in detail in Annex 1.




                                                1
Kenya


                                     II. THE PROJECT

The Project Context

6.      Kenya’s natural resource endowment is the foundation for much of the country’s
economic activity, but it is vulnerable to floods and drought, mismanagement, and depletion.
High demand has been putting tremendous pressure on Kenya’s natural resource base,
including water and forests. The country remains highly water scarce, and how forests are
managed has a direct impact on water resources and therefore poverty, prosperity, and
resilience.

7.      Watershed Management. Key watershed management issues include: (i) watershed
degradation as a result of deforestation and poor land use practices; (ii) lack of storage
capacity; and (iii) poor management frameworks, although recent policy reforms have begun
to address this. The Water Act of 2002 provided a basis for implementing water sector
reforms. The national Water Resources Management Authority (WRMA) was designated to
address: (i) institutional coordination, (ii) decentralization and local accountability, and (iii)
sustainable financing of WRM.

8.      Forest Resource Management. Depletion and unsustainable use has reduced Kenya’s
relatively small forested area from about 10 percent of its land area at independence in 1963
to an estimated 1.7 percent (or 1.24 million ha) today. There are four categories of forest,
including state indigenous forests, state plantation forests, farm forests, and forest and
woodlands on local authority land, including dryland forests. Plantation forests were
established to help create a viable, dynamic and diversified forest industry, while reducing
dependence on indigenous forests for raw material supplies. Indigenous forests play a critical
role in Kenya’s society and culture and were planned to be managed to conserve water
supplies, to reduce soil erosion and (to a lesser extent) to produce timber raw material.
However, a number of problems have led to poor plantation management, abuse in the
disposal of forest land and produce as well as preferential licensing, which contributed to a
decline in supply of timber and other products. In addition, the steady growth of Kenya’s rural
population continues to place strain on forest land, which is often considered the only
remaining “land reserve” in the country.

9.      Recognition of acute problems in the forest sector led the Government of Kenya
(GoK) to prepare a Forest Policy and a Forest Act, which received parliamentary approval in
2005. The main goals for the reform of the forest sector were to raise efficiency, ensure
protection and sustainable forest use, and promote poverty reduction. Strengthening forest
governance is critical for the success of these efforts. The Forest Act embraced participatory
forest management, whereby community forest associations (CFAs) would be recognized as
partners in management. The Forest Act also promoted private sector participation to enhance
the competitiveness of the sector.

The Project

10.     It was in this context that the Natural Resource Management Project (NRMP) was
prepared to assist the GoK to better manage water resources and forests, through
strengthening of the information base, enhancing the legal and regulatory framework,
financing investments in capital works such as irrigation in Mwea, and engaging communities
as partners in co-management of water and forest resources. In doing so, two critical
watersheds of the Tana and the Nzoia Rivers were supported, with investments planned in the


                                                2
                                                      Management Report and Recommendation


upper catchment of the Tana River and two watersheds of the Nzoia River catchment, the
Kakamega Forest and Mt. Elgon.

11.    The NRMP, a Specific Investment Loan, was approved by the Board of Directors in
March 2007 and became effective on December 10, 2007. Once it became effective, it was
almost immediately affected by the turmoil that followed the disputed December 27, 2007
general election, which caused implementation delays until April 2008.

12.     Project Objectives. The original Project Development Objectives (PDO) were “to
enhance the Recipient’s institutional capacity to manage water and forest resources, reduce
the incidence and severity of water shocks, such as drought, floods and water shortage in river
catchments and improve the livelihoods of communities in the co-management of water and
forest resources.”

13.    Project Components. The Project comprised four components:

          Component 1 – Water Resources Management and Irrigation (US$38.1 million).
           This Component: (i) strengthened the capacity of the WRMA, with direct
           investments in the Upper Tana Catchment; and (ii) contributed to sustainable
           irrigation development through consolidation of National Irrigation Board (NIB)
           reforms and development of irrigation in the downstream part of the Nzoia river
           basin.

          Component 2 – Management of Forest Resources (US$21.1 million). With the
           passage of the Forest Act, Kenya sought to move from government to joint
           management by local communities and the private sector, in order to improve
           forest governance and participation and investment by stakeholders. To
           operationalize the Act, the Ministry of Forestry and Wildlife (MoFW) and the
           Kenya Forest Service (KFS) foresaw a Forest Management Component that would
           provide assistance in creating a transparent and accountable regulatory and
           institutional framework, and targeted support to implement the Act. Sub-
           components focused on: (i) operationalizing institutional reforms to enhance forest
           governance and improve revenue capture, improve the information base, improve
           development and management of forest plantations and better protect and manage
           indigenous forests; (ii) enabling community participation and benefit sharing,
           identifying and prioritizing an array of partnership models to implement the
           legislative framework and improve benefit sharing; and (iii) strengthening
           institutional support services to create an enabling environment for community and
           private sector involvement in development and management of production forests.

           Many of the planned activities under Component 2 were overly ambitious, given
           the deeply entrenched nature of the underlying issues and the limited mandate of
           the Project’s implementing agency, and were significantly scaled back in the 2011
           restructuring described below.

          Component 3 – Livelihood Investments in the Upper Tana Catchment (US$4.5
           million). Financing was provided for Livelihood-based Multisectoral Management
           Investments in the Upper Tana Catchment, using a Community Driven
           Development (CDD) approach, where proposals were sought from communities to
           fund micro-projects to be carried out using district-based delivery mechanisms.
           Management was decentralized, with a Secretariat based in the WRMA offices in


                                              3
Kenya


             Embu, and a steering committee of key natural resources management
             organizations to vet the proposed projects. Technical assistance was provided
             through WRMA, NIB and KFS staff on the ground to ensure a coordinated
             approach and sustainability.

            Component 4 – Management and Monitoring and Evaluation (US$ 4.3 million).
             The Project was managed through two line ministries, Water and Irrigation, and
             Forestry and Wildlife, and the respective implementation agencies (WRMA, NIB,
             KFS), supported by a coordination office hosted within the Ministry of Water and
             Irrigation.

14.     Project Restructuring. The Project was restructured in 2011 to introduce changes in
Component 2. This was done to address unrealistic aspirations in Project documents,
specifically those relating to the Project’s mandate and capacity to address longstanding and
systemic land issues as suggested in the Project’s Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework
(IPPF). The restructuring also introduced three enhancements to the existing activities as set
out below:

            First, to assist the GoK in implementing a livelihood and rural development
             program, focusing on Indigenous Peoples and other forest communities through
             the community led development of Project financed Vulnerable and Marginalized
             Group Plans (VMGPs).

            Second, technical assistance, as originally planned under the Project for
             formulation of a strategy to improve forest management, to cover integration of
             guidelines for vulnerable and marginalized communities.

            Third, to strengthen the decentralized structure of CFAs and other local groups. In
             this context, together with the other components dealing with water resources
             management and irrigation, the restructured Project improved the overall impact
             on the country’s participatory approach to sustainable development and poverty
             reduction programs.

15.      In June 2011 the restructured Project was approved by the Bank’s Board of Executive
Directors to introduce the following changes: (i) a revision and simplification of the PDO (“to
improve the management of water and forest resources in selected districts”);1 (ii) a revision
of the results framework, including changes to outcome indicators; (iii) a reallocation of about
21 percent of credit proceeds; (iv) an increase in the disbursement percentages by category, in
line with the new Bank rules that allow up to 100 percent Bank financing for Project
activities; and (v) the elimination of two outdated covenants. The reallocation of Project funds
among existing categories was necessary to cover cost overruns on some components, in
particular, in Component 2 (Management of Forest Resources), where implementation
progress was affected as further detailed below.

16.     The restructuring aimed to adjust Project outcomes so that they were within the
control of and could be delivered by the implementing agency, and could be achieved during
the life of the Project. This included: (i) an acknowledgment that achieving the
1
 The Project intervention areas include the following districts: Kiambu, Thika, Murang’a, Nyeri, Kirinyaga,
Laikipia, Nyandarua, Mbeere, Machakos, Mt. Elgon, West Pokot, Kakamega, Vihiga, Butere Mumias, Lugari,
Bungoma, Busia, Uasin Gishu, Trans Nzoia, Keiyo, Nandi North, Nandi South, Marakwet, Ugunja, Siaya,
Bunyala, Kirinyaga East, Mwea East and Mwea West.


                                                      4
                                                        Management Report and Recommendation


comprehensive resolution of land issues was beyond the remit and time-horizon of the
Project; (ii) an understanding that the Project did not propose to address all vulnerability
issues associated with Indigenous Peoples’ land and forest resource access issues; and (iii)
advancing the IPPF into concrete Indigenous Peoples Plans (IPPs) for communities in Project
areas, focusing on livelihoods and CDD-type activities so that communities could receive
tangible benefits.

17.     The restructuring also placed particular focus on updating the safeguard instruments
and improving their implementation to respond to the needs of Indigenous Peoples in Project
areas related to land use and access issues. The Project prepared an updated Process
Framework for Involuntary Resettlement, as well as VMGPs, which is the Government-
preferred nomenclature for the IPPs that are required under OP 4.10 (Indigenous Peoples).
Investments to provide livelihood benefits to currently marginalized and vulnerable
communities have been under implementation since mid-2012. The restructured Project also
supported capacity-building for KFS.

18.     Project Status. The Project closed on June 30, 2013. The Project disbursement rate
was 92 percent as of December 4, 2013. The Project was rated moderately satisfactory overall
in the Implementation Completion Report.


                                    III. SPECIAL ISSUES

Land Issues in Kenya

19.      The Project was designed and has been implemented against the backdrop of a long
history of conflict and confusion over land and access rights in Kenya’s forests. In the case
of the Cherangany Hills, the Social Assessment (SA) prepared for the NRMP indicates that
forest areas have for many generations been inhabited by various Sengwer communities. The
Sengwer, who traditionally have relied on hunting and gathering in the forest for their
livelihoods, have long asserted an ancestral right to live in and use the forest without
restrictions. Successive governments – both colonial and independent – by contrast, have
prioritized the protection of forests through gazetting and state control, an approach in conflict
with the Sengwer’s lifestyle and assertion of rights.

20.     The result of these conflicting claims to the forest has been a complex history of
tension and lack of trust between government forest institutions (now the KFS) and
Sengwer living in or near the forests, which has heightened in recent decades as pressures
on Kenya’s forests and water resources have intensified. According to the SA, there have
been repeated evictions since the 1980s – of different scales and involving various segments
of the Sengwer community, with the pace of evictions accelerating since 2000. The Embobut
Task Force Report, for example, confirms that there have been a total of 21 eviction incidents
in the Embobut forests over the last three decades.

21.     There has also been during this period an emerging recognition by both the GoK
and the Sengwer that a permanent solution to this problem will require the resettlement of
forest-dwelling Sengwer to suitable land outside the gazetted forest. It is recognized that
such resettlement needs to be accompanied by the provision of clearly demarcated and secure
legal rights to land, and agreement on rules concerning access to the forest that balance the
needs of conservation and traditional livelihoods. In the absence of alternative land, the
recurring pattern of evictions followed by re-entry in the forest is likely to continue. The SA


                                                5
Kenya


documents several efforts by the GoK to identify and provide alternative land over the last
decade. In some cases this has led to relocation and provision of title for some households.
For the most part, however, resettlement has stalled. The situation has been further
complicated by the influx of non-indigenous groups, including Internally Displaced Persons
(IDPs) after the 2007 elections, which has added a frequently tense inter-community dynamic
to an already complex land and forest situation.

22.     Kenya’s policy and legal framework has become more conducive to finding a
solution to problems such as those involving the Sengwer of the Cherangany Hills. As
described above, a new Forest Act was adopted in 2005, which while not conferring land
rights on forest-dwelling groups like the Sengwer, does provide an important legal foundation
for forest management approach involving local communities. In parallel there has been
significant progress in improving policy and legal framework for land relations more
generally, through the adoption of the National Land Policy and the Land Act. Several Task
Forces have also been appointed by the GoK to address specific issues related to displacement
and resettlement.

23.     In light of this improving policy environment, the Project as originally designed
aspired to support the resolution of land issues in several ways, as described in the IPPF
and the Project Appraisal Document (PAD). While a comprehensive solution to land issues
in the Project area remains a high priority of both the GoK and groups within the Project area,
Management recognized during restructuring that there was a need to more narrowly define
what contributions the Project itself could realistically make to this larger agenda. These more
targeted contributions have included the development of the VMGPs, capacity building and
sensitization within KFS to improve forest governance methods, and the establishment of
grievance redress and dispute resolution mechanisms in which, among other issues, tensions
around land and forest access can be addressed.

Post-election Turmoil 2007/08 and its Impact on the Project

24.    The turmoil that followed the 2007 election had a major impact on the start of
Project activities on the ground, particularly in Western Kenya and Rift Valley provinces.
Some areas remained “off-limits” for both Bank and implementing agency staff until about
June 2008, and inter-ethnic conflicts also led to large numbers of IDPs seeking refuge in
gazetted forest areas, including the Cherangany Hills.

25.     This situation was further aggravated by a prolonged drought and the general
recognition that ecosystem degradation and encroachment in the five remaining montane
forest areas (“water towers”2) was a leading cause of reduced water flows into critical water
bodies. In response, the GoK decided to address this situation and initiated a campaign to
“reclaim” areas that had been encroached upon and cleared of forest cover, starting with the
Mau Forest Complex (not within the Project area). These efforts led to the eviction of persons
who were unable to claim land tenure and access rights.

26.     Downstream communities in the Cherangany Hills began to demand that the GoK
evict communities living inside gazetted forest areas of Embobut. The demand was
accompanied by a threat to unilaterally evict upstream communities if the GoK did not take
action. The GoK felt obliged to act swiftly and sought to avoid an escalation by organizing
community meetings with elders and convincing the majority of settlers to leave the

2
    Aberdare Range, Cherangany Hills, Mau Forest Complex, Mt. Elgon, Mt. Kenya.


                                                      6
                                                     Management Report and Recommendation


encroached area voluntarily by providing the prospect of a settlement scheme. Once the
encroachers had left the area, Administrative Police, supported by guards from KFS and the
Kenya Wildlife Service, burned existing structures to dissuade people from returning.
However, no alternative land was provided for resettlement at the time and people moving out
of Embobut settled along the main road in the area. Eventually and as a result of the 2009
Embobut Forest Task Force recommendations, the majority of those communities identified
as eligible for settlement were allowed to return to stay in the seven glades within Embobut
Forest, until a lasting resettlement solution was found.

27.    This relocation exercise was widely reported and was the starting point for a
continuous engagement of the NRMP with Sengwer community members. It highlighted the
need for KFS (and other GoK agencies) to change the approach to addressing issues of
encroachment, and to recognize the benefits of employing more participatory and community-
led approaches based on consultation and dialogue as a means to redress and mitigate conflict.
In response to this, the NRMP provided funding to establish a community-led livelihood
development program, focusing on indigenous and other forest communities, using a
community driven development methodology and including a Project-level Grievance
Redress Mechanism (GRM).

Evictions in 2013/2014 after Project Closure

28.     In late 2013 and early 2014 the GoK embarked on a renewed effort to remove and
resettle forest dwellers, including the Sengwer communities in Embobut, Cherangany Hills,
Western Kenya.

29.    The Directorate of Special Programs (now under the Ministry for Devolution and
Planning) was leading the compensation process for forest dwellers to be resettled. Embobut
was the second-to-last community of affected IDPs/forest dwellers to be compensated. The
compensation drive was launched in Marakwet by President Uhuru and Deputy President
Ruto in mid-December 2013. Shortly thereafter, the GoK announced that the compensation
process was complete and that compensation had been paid into bank accounts of the
Embobut IDPs and forest evictees’ accounts in December.

30.    There have subsequently been reports from the field alleging inadequacies in the
compensation process and disagreements about the amounts paid as compensation. Many
Sengwer claimed that they had not received any compensation. Evictions continued, however,
and by early February 2014, had intensified, including the alleged destruction of some 800
houses with involvement of GoK security forces.

31.     The Bank issued a statement on February 6, 2014 expressing its concern about the
reports of possibly unlawful evictions and called upon the GoK to apply international good
practice in dealing with issues of resettlement and indigenous communities. The Country
Director has held several meetings with the GoK at various levels to raise these concerns,
emphasizing that although the NRMP was closed as of June 30, 2013, since project
beneficiaries were among those affected, the continuing evictions threatened to weaken,
indeed unravel the sustainability of project accomplishments.

32.     On February 25, 2014, the GoK National Treasury sent a formal letter to the Bank,
providing a detailed background of the problem from its perspective, assuring the Bank that
consultations were held, thanking the Bank for its role, and reiterating the GoK’s commitment
to “bring a sustainable and lasting solution to the plight of the Sengwer and other Kenyans


                                              7
Kenya


facing similar challenges,” noting that “in doing so, the Government will strike the right
balance between their rights and conserving our heritage and natural resources especially our
five water towers which are vital for the livelihood of all Kenyans.”

33.    On February 16, 2014, Mr. Jim Yong Kim, President of the World Bank Group, issued
a public statement, expressing the Bank’s concern and stating that Bank Management was
“alarmed by reports of recently evicted families in the Embobut Forest and Cherangany Hills
areas of Kenya. We understand that underlying this issue is a critical effort to protect
watersheds in Kenya’s forest and hill areas. However, we strongly encourage the Kenyan
authorities to thoroughly investigate claims made by civil society, including the affected
communities, that the evictions are not following the legal process.” The Bank has continued
to maintain a dialogue with members of the affected Sengwer community, concerned
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and the GoK.




                                             8
                                                          Management Report and Recommendation


                         IV. SUMMARY OF PANEL FINDINGS

     Issue                                           Panel Findings
1. Evictions      The Panel finds that no evictions were supported as part of the NRMP.
Risks             More attention should have been given from the outset to identify risks for
                  affected people and adequately mitigate for such risks as required by Bank
                  Policies on Environmental Assessment, Project Appraisal, Indigenous Peoples,
                  and Involuntary Resettlement.
                  While commending Management for securing a moratorium on evictions in
                  2011, and acknowledging the challenges posed by the political and ethnic
                  complexities as background, the Panel notes that the moratorium could instead
                  have been identified as a critical risk mitigation measure during Project
                  preparation.
2. Resettlement   The original Project design included frameworks to address the risk of evictions
in the NRMP       through the IPPF and the RPF, but no planning for their implementation
                  occurred, and no resettlement plan was prepared for any forested area under
                  the Project.
                  The Panel finds that the lack of follow-up actions to the RPF through a RAP
                  represents non-compliance with OP/BP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement.
                  The Panel found incongruity between the Project documents and
                  Management’s position that no resettlement was planned under the NRMP.
3. Analysis of    The Panel finds non-compliance with the key provisions of OMS 2.20 (Project
Institutional     Appraisal), during initial Project design as they relate to the proper institutional
Aspects           analysis of the capacities of KFS. In this context, the Panel particularly
                  highlights the challenges resulting from the implementation of activities that
                  would have required multi-agency interventions, such as resettlement
                  operations, given that Component 2 of the NRMP did not target any agencies
                  beyond the KFS.
4. Project        The Panel finds that Management responded repeatedly and firmly and brought
Supervision       to the attention of the Borrower instances of non-compliance with social
                  safeguards obligations, as required by OP/BP 13.05, including securing a
                  moratorium on evictions.
5. Use of VMGs    The Panel finds that the use of the term VMGs instead of Indigenous Peoples
instead of        does not in itself amount to non-compliance with OP/BP 4.10 because the
Indigenous        policy does not require its use to ensure protection of the rights included
Peoples           therein.
                  At the same time, the Panel notes that for the Cherangany-Sengwer the term
                  Indigenous Peoples is central to their self-identity and therefore for the
                  protection of their customary rights. It is the Panel’s view that meaningful
                  compliance with the Indigenous Peoples policy calls for more consideration to
                  be given to a community’s attachment to a particular designation through
                  greater consultation and, in ensuring that the use of any other designation does
                  not dilute the full customary rights of Indigenous Peoples as enshrined in OP
                  4.10.
6. Customary      The Panel notes that the focus on livelihood support, whilst beneficial to
Rights and        recipients, represented a move away from a focus on the protection of
Livelihood        customary rights to forest resources. The Panel finds that overlooking
Program           customary rights after restructuring represents non-compliance with OP/BP
                  4.10
                  On the question of whether or not non-indigenous peoples living in the mixed
                  communities with indigenous people should have benefitted from livelihood
                  activities under the Project, the Panel finds that by ensuring that benefits from
                  livelihood activities in mixed communities reach Indigenous Peoples as well as
                  non-indigenous peoples the Bank is in compliance with OP/BP 4.10.




                                                 9
Kenya


        Issue                                          Panel Findings
 7. Consultations   The Panel finds that the earlier Project documents including the PAD, IPPF and
                    SA led to strong support from parts of the community because of their wide
                    coverage of key substantive issues in line with Indigenous Peoples’ claims in a
                    manner that was consistent with OP/BP 4.10.
                    The restructured Project, on the other hand, contrasted with OP 4.10’s spirit
                    and letter because it was developed without proper consultation. The Panel
                    finds that the absence of prior consultation as well as the delay in disclosure of
                    information regarding Project restructuring raises an issue of compliance with
                    OP 4.10.



34.     The Panel also noted that it wished to re-emphasize the critical importance and
transformational nature of this Project and its development objectives in terms of capacity
building of institutions to manage water and forest resources in a sustainable and participatory
manner. These objectives are even more relevant in a country with high population growth
rates, coupled with unsustainably high pressure on its natural resources. Furthermore, the
Panel recognized the significant achievements under the project to strengthen the management
of water, forests, and other natural resources in the country.




                                                  10
                  V. RESPONSE TO FINDINGS BY THE PANEL

35.     Management shares the Panel’s view that the NRMP has not caused the
evictions. At the same time, Management acknowledges that the evictions were
symptomatic of a complex underlying tension between GoK and forest communities
that the Project was not well equipped to address.

36.     Management notes that the overall environment of the NRMP has been
challenging from the outset, and is characterized by tension over historic land issues,
longstanding grievances of indigenous communities, and unresolved conflicts between
those communities and the KFS. Additional implementation challenges included the
widespread ethnic violence that took place in Kenya following the 2007 elections, the
significant influx into forest areas of people displaced by that violence and the security
related mobility restrictions for Bank staff until mid-2008.

37.     Given this context, Management considers that the original Project design was
overly ambitious in several respects, including aspirations expressed in the safeguard
instruments concerning the resolution of long-standing land and forest conflicts that
were not realistic given the scope and time-frame of the Project. As a result, some
Project documents, including safeguard instruments such as the IPPF, promised more
than the Project itself could realistically accomplish. As this became clear during Project
implementation, Management decided to restructure the Project to better respond to the
situation on the ground and to secure the delivery of benefits from the Project’s
livelihood component to community members.

38.    One of the main reasons for this is rooted in the inconsistency between some
key Project documents, which led to an expansion of the Project area beyond the
original intent of Project design, resulting in very complex challenges that the original
Project did not foresee and in fact was not provisioned to address.

39.     Despite these difficult circumstances facing Project implementation
Management still believes that the Project provided many benefits to the participating
communities, a fact that was recognized in the Panel report. In addition the Project has
helped to put in place important tools, such as the VMGPs, the Process Framework and
the approaches to grievance redress, to help enable the communities to better participate
in the Government’s forest management activities. The Project also helped in securing a
Government moratorium on evictions in the Embobut Forest, which allowed the Sengwer
to reside in the glades in that forest during the remainder of Project implementation, and
enabled them to benefit from the livelihood enhancement activities of NRMP.

40.     Management has viewed with concern the evictions that occurred during
Project implementation and has responded diligently to those incidents, including
bringing this to the attention of the borrower and facilitating a moratorium on
evictions. Likewise, after Project closure Management has reacted to the reports of the
widespread evictions that started in early 2014 and has called upon the borrower to



                                            11
Kenya


adhere to good international practice in dealing with issues of resettlement and
indigenous communities.

A.      Project Approach to Risks Posed by Evictions

41.     Panel Finding: The Panel has found that “no evictions were supported as part of
the NRMP.” At the same time, the Panel also noted that “more attention should have
been given from the outset to identify risks for affected people and adequately mitigate
for such risks….” The Panel commended “the swift and consistent response of Bank
Management when it became aware of [the] evictions” and “for securing a moratorium
on evictions in 2011, and acknowledging the challenges posed by the political and ethnic
complexities as background, [while noting] that the moratorium could instead have been
identified as a critical risk mitigation measure during Project preparation.” The Panel
also recognized Management’s proactive stance towards the forceful evictions that took
place after the closing of the Project, reflected in the Bank President’s statement.

42.      Management agrees with the Panel’s finding that no evictions were supported as
part of the NRMP. Management believes that eviction risks were adequately documented
in the initial Project design, and risk mitigation measures were also well articulated. The
initial Project design in the PAD reflected the wishes of the GoK to exclude Cherangany
Hills in the Project intervention area precisely because of unresolved land and legacy
issues and increasing tensions that made forest conservation and poverty reduction
operations on the ground impractical. At the same time, Management and the Panel have
both noted the difference between the PAD and the IPPF, the latter of which committed
the Project to resolving the century-old land ownership and related conflicts in
Cherangany Hills and nationwide. In hindsight these circumstances weakened the
effectiveness of the mitigation measures that had been developed for the initial Project
design and Project area.

43.     Management appreciates the Panel’s commendation for securing the 2011
moratorium on evictions. Management notes that it would have been difficult to secure
such a moratorium during Project preparation because: (i) the background events
surrounding the national elections that displaced hundreds of thousands of people who
sought refuge in Cherangany and other forest zones were just starting to unfold as the
Project was delivered; and (ii) the GoK had requested the Project not to be implemented
in Cherangany, which was only formally included in the Project as an intervention area as
a result of the 2011 Project restructuring. A moratorium did thus not appear to be needed
during the 2007-2008 Project preparation. Management notes that after the Project was
prepared, implementation included: (i) frequent dialogue on land access and legacy
issues; (ii) intensive implementation support, such as a mission every ten weeks on
average; and (iii) highly responsive follow up directly and through the borrower to
concerns or complaints received from stakeholders – as was recognized in the Panel
report. Management believes that these and other efforts have helped to identify and
mitigate risks of eviction of displaced people, landslide victims and indigenous forest
communities to some degree.




                                            12
                                                       Management Report and Recommendation


B.     Resettlement in the NRMP

44.     Panel Finding: The Panel has found that “the lack of follow-up actions to the
RPF through a RAP represents non-compliance with OP/BP 4.12 on Involuntary
Resettlement.” The Panel asserts that “the original Project design included frameworks
to address the risk of evictions through the IPPF and the RPF, but no planning for their
implementation occurred, and no resettlement plan was prepared for any forested area
under the Project.”

45.      Management believes that it would have been neither possible nor required under
OP 4.12 to prepare Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) for actions that were not planned
or conducted within the scope of the Project. Management acknowledges that Project
documents had originally contemplated the possibility of support for resettlement and
consequently envisioned the potential preparation of RAPs in accordance with the
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF). Had the Project supported activities that resulted
in displacement as defined in OP 4.12, RAPs would have been prepared. However, no
such activities were in the end supported by the Project. While a number of evictions did
occur, as detailed in the eligibility phase Management Response, these were not Project-
supported activities. Therefore, while agreeing that the risks of unplanned evictions
should have been better provisioned for by the Project, Management remains of the
view that RAPs are instruments designed to address the impacts of Project supported
activities, not government actions that are neither planned nor supported by the
Project.

C.     Analysis of Institutional Aspects

46.      Panel Finding: The Panel has found “non-compliance with the key provisions of
OMS 2.20 (Project Appraisal), during initial Project design as they relate to the proper
institutional analysis of the capacities of KFS. In this context, the Panel particularly
highlights the challenges resulting from the implementation of activities that would have
required multi-agency interventions, such as resettlement operations….”

47.      Management agrees with the Panel that any durable solution to the complex land
and legacy issues requires multi-agency interventions, and notes that the Panel
recognized the intensive efforts to bring other agencies and ministries into the dialogue as
noted in Annex 1 (Item 3). At the same time, Management recognizes that KFS’s
institutional and mandate limitations did not fully equip it to take the lead in concerted
efforts to resolve complex land and legacy issues. These limitations contributed to
Management’s decision to restructure the Project in 2011, as explicitly discussed in the
Restructuring Paper.

48.    Despite these limitations, the central role of KFS in forest governance is
indisputable, and in Management’s view, the primary focus of the Project on helping
KFS as a new agency develop the requisite capacity was an appropriate one.




                                            13
Kenya


D.      Use of the Term “Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups (VMGs)” instead of
        “IPs”

49.     Panel Finding: The Panel finds that “the use of the term VMGs instead of
Indigenous Peoples does not in itself amount to non-compliance with OP/BP 4.10….” At
the same time, the Panel notes that “for the Cherangany-Sengwer the term Indigenous
Peoples is central to their self-identity and therefore for the protection of their customary
rights. It is the Panel’s view that meaningful compliance with the Indigenous Peoples
policy calls for more consideration to be given to a community’s attachment to a
particular designation through greater consultation and, in ensuring that the use of any
other designation does not dilute the full customary rights of IPs as enshrined in OP
4.10.”

50.      Management appreciates the Panel’s finding that the use of the term VMGs does
not in itself amount to non-compliance with OP/BP 4.10. As noted in the eligibility phase
Management Response, the Bank has adopted this term in applying OP 4.10 in Kenya at
the request of the GoK, in order to be consistent with the terminology of the 2010
constitution. It is Management’s view that OP 4.10 allows flexible adaptation of
terminology, and that the adoption of the term VMG does not diminish the substantive
protections and benefits available to beneficiary communities under the policy.

51.    With respect to the Panel’s view that “meaningful compliance” with OP 4.10 calls
for more attention to be paid to the attachment that a community itself has to a particular
designation, Management would like to note (see Annex 1, Item 5), that there were
extensive, substantive consultations with 1,137 Cherangany-Sengwer people on the
terminology; only 2 people objected to the use of the term VMG instead of Indigenous
Peoples. In short, it is Management’s view that during Project implementation, the Bank
was sufficiently attentive to the issue of terminology, and confirmed through extensive
consultations that adoption of the term VMG was of minimal concern to relevant
communities. The results of these consultations are consistent with subsequent meetings
with national IPOs that have similarly indicated satisfaction with efforts to more closely
align OP 4.10 application with the Constitution of Kenya.

E.      Customary Rights and Livelihood Program

52.     Panel Finding: The Panel notes that “the focus on livelihood support, whilst
beneficial to recipients, represented a move away from a focus on the protection of
customary rights to forest resources,” and that “overlooking customary rights after
restructuring represents non-compliance with OP/BP 4.10,” specifically with regard to
“Paragraph 21 of OP 4.10 because the proper steps required to address the potential
loss of customary rights were not taken as provided by the Policy.” The Panel also
reported on the appreciation expressed by project beneficiaries regarding the livelihood
program implemented under the VMGPs. This included many community members
requesting that the Project be extended beyond its closing date and that identified
beneficiaries continue to benefit from the Project. The Panel noted that through the
support for alternative and culturally appropriate livelihoods, the VMGPs had a
significant and positive impact on many members of the affected communities.


                                             14
                                                      Management Report and Recommendation


53.     As previously noted, Management acknowledges that a number of the ambitious
proposals for addressing land and forest resource rights contained in the IPPF were
ultimately not pursued, for reasons expressed in the Restructuring Paper. However,
despite adopting a more modest (and in the circumstances, realistic) approach to these
issues, the Project nevertheless pursued a significant number of actions designed to
protect Indigenous Peoples’ customary rights to forest resources, in line with OP/BP
4.10.

54.     As per OP 4.10 (paragraph 21), NRMP sought to avoid involuntary restrictions on
Indigenous Peoples’ access to legally designated parks and protected areas, in particular
access to their sacred sites. KFS prepared, with the free, prior, and informed consultation
of the affected indigenous communities, a Process Framework to be followed if it later
became impossible to avoid restricting access to the gazetted forest. It was clarified
during the extensive consultations described in Annex 1 (Item 6), that the Process
Framework was, first and foremost, an instrument to enable indigenous communities and
the KFS to address issues of restrictions of access to forests and forest resources, should
such restrictions become unavoidable. The Process Framework also established a GRM,
which was used by Indigenous Peoples and KFS during Project implementation.

55.     The participatory preparation of VMGPs, initiated by KFS in 2011, was part of a
comprehensive strategy to protect livelihoods dependent on customary rights and access,
and should not be viewed as a standalone activity. To mitigate potential impacts
identified during the SA, including restriction of access to forest resources, and as a
poverty reduction strategy, indigenous communities had requested to be supported with
livelihood micro-projects. The VMGPs were prepared with full participation of the
indigenous communities, who decided on micro-projects that would suit both their land
ownership status and also act as a boost to their current livelihood activities. Bank
Management has expressed concern to the GoK that the good results from the livelihoods
activities were compromised during the post-Project evictions in early 2014.

56.    In addition, the NRMP supported activities to introduce co-management of forest
resources including Participatory Forest Management (PFM). The Panel noted that PFM
requires a very long time to put in place. In Kenya there was little experience with PFM.
The NRMP strategy was to build trust over time among all forest stakeholders using a
variety of measures including: (i) capacity building at KFS, (ii) capacity building of
communities such as through their own VMGPs, and (iii) development of a PFM pilot
intervention by the Ogiek indigenous community that could be scaled up later. The Ogiek
PFM pilot has been successful and continues to date.

57.      Lastly, whenever complaints were received by Management about alleged
restrictions of forest access, Management consistently and quickly acted by reaching out
to the borrower and responding to complainants, as was well documented in the
eligibility phase Management Response. Through this intense implementation support, a
number of instances of infringements on customary rights were resolved.




                                            15
Kenya


F.      Consultations

58.    Panel Finding: The Panel has found that “the earlier Project documents
including the PAD, IPPF and SA led to strong support from parts of the community
because of their wide coverage of key substantive issues in line with Indigenous Peoples’
claims in a manner that was consistent with OP/BP 4.10. The restructured Project, on the
other hand, contrasted with OP 4.10’s spirit and letter because it was developed without
proper consultation. The Panel finds that the absence of prior consultation as well as the
delay in disclosure of information regarding Project restructuring raises an issue of
compliance with OP 4.10.”

59.      Management acknowledges that there was strong community support for the
original Project safeguard documents, including the IPPF. At the same time, Management
believes that the subsequent decision to modify the approach outlined in the IPPF, made
at the time of Project restructuring, was undertaken in a manner that was consistent with
the letter and spirit of OP 4.10.

60.      As referred to in the Restructuring Paper, the Project supported the preparation
and implementation of the communities’ own VMGPs as a way to advance the IPPF in
accordance with OP 4.10. These VMGPs included livelihood and CDD types of
activities, building upon the SA that was completed in June 2010. Preparation of the
VMGPs was based on the principle of free, prior and informed consultation resulting in
broad community support as a prerequisite for Bank financing. The GoK and
Management discussed the proposed restructuring with the affected people and IPO
leaders on a number of occasions as detailed in Annex 1 (Item 7). These consultations
included explicit discussion and explanation of the fact that the Project would not be able
to support a number of measures mentioned in the IPPF concerning the resolution of land
rights and hence such activities would not be included in the VMGPs, which were
tailored to the specific conditions and contexts of the Indigenous Peoples communities.


     VI. MANAGEMENT’S ACTION PLAN IN RESPONSE TO THE FINDINGS

61.     Management has held discussions with the affected communities and the
borrower to identify the actions best suited to address the Panel’s findings in the current
circumstances, given that: (i) the NRMP closed on June 30, 2013; (ii) broader
Government efforts to review and address related land issues are underway; and (iii)
further Bank engagement in the country’s forest sector warrants an in-depth review of the
issues that have significantly affected the implementation of the NRMP. Due to the
closure of the Project and the latest evictions that have taken place in the Project area,
Management has limited ways to engage at the Project level. However, the country team
remains engaged in the dialogue about the broader issues of tenure and access to forests
and provides advice to the GoK. In light of the above and in response to the Panel’s
Report, Management commits to undertake the following actions:




                                            16
                                                     Management Report and Recommendation


       1) Hold a Colloquium to Promote Dialogue and Cooperation on Land and
          Legacy Issues among Forest Stakeholders. This activity responds to requests
          from members of the Sengwer community provided at a video conference
          with Management on June 11, 2014. The Colloquium would include members
          of the affected communities (possibly including the anonymous Requesters),
          Government agencies such as the KFS and National Land Commission,
          NGOs, the Bank, and other development partners active in the forest sector.
          The Colloquium would build on the series of workshops and dialogues
          already held on land and legacy issues. The Colloquium would also allow the
          Cherangany-Sengwer stakeholders, and presumably the Requesters, to
          articulate their proposals for working with the GoK in identifying a path
          forward to resolve the legacy land issues that affect the Cherangany-Sengwer
          community; and to continue to discuss the need for implementing
          participatory models of forest management among Cherangany-Sengwer in
          line with the Forest Act (i.e., the participatory forest management approach
          piloted by the Ogiek indigenous community in Mt. Elgon, which is another
          NRMP intervention area). As such, the Colloquium would have discrete
          sessions on key topics including:

          Global best practices in (i) Developing process frameworks for customary
           rights, (ii) Resettlement, (iii) Indigenous Peoples Plans (i.e., VMGPs in
           NRMP);
          Global best practices in applying participatory forest management;
          Global best practices in community driven development;
          Global best practices on mechanisms for resolving land and legacy issues; and

   2) Provide technical assistance on social safeguards in Kenya, to indigenous
      communities and the GoK. This work has been initiated based on the rationale
      that land and legacy issues are present throughout the Bank-financed portfolio in
      Kenya. So far three national workshops open to all indigenous groups, including
      the Cherangany-Sengwer who participated, were held to explain in detail how
      Bank social safeguards policies are applied in Bank-financed operations.
      Management is exploring options to expand this activity to include Government
      agencies.

62.     These actions have been consulted upon with both sets of Requesters (since the
first Request was submitted anonymously, Management was provided by the Panel with
the contact details of a community member who declared that he represents the
Requesters) through: (i) a video conference with the Bank team in Nairobi and
Washington on June 11, 2014; and (ii) a meeting with the Bank-team in Nairobi on June
30, 2014.




                                          17
Kenya


                              VII.    CONCLUSION

63.     Management believes that the Bank has made every effort to apply its policies
and procedures and to pursue its mission statement in the context of the Project.
Management acknowledges the Panel’s findings and believes that the proposed Action
Plan is the most appropriate way to address these findings.




                                         18
                                                             Management Report and Recommendation


                     MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
            IN RESPONSE TO THE INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT ON
                   KENYA: NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT

                                              ANNEX 1
                                      FINDINGS AND COMMENTS

No.   Issue/Finding                               IP    Comment
                                                Para.
1.    Evictions Risks                           9-10,   Management agrees with the Panel’s finding that
      The Panel finds that no evictions         123,    no evictions were supported as part of the
      were supported as part of the             126,    NRMP. Management believes that eviction risks
      NRMP.                                     128     were adequately documented in the initial Project
      More attention should have been                   design and risk mitigation measures were also
      given from the outset to identify risks           well articulated. The initial Project design in the
      for affected people and adequately                PAD reflected the wishes of the GoK to exclude
      mitigate for such risks as required by            Cherangany Hills in the Project intervention area
      Bank Policies on Environmental                    precisely because of unresolved land and legacy
      Assessment, Project Appraisal,                    issues and increasing tensions that made forest
      Indigenous Peoples, and Involuntary               conservation and poverty reduction operations on
      Resettlement.                                     the ground impractical. At the same time,
      While commending Management for                   Management and the Panel have both noted the
      securing a moratorium on evictions                difference between the PAD and the IPPF, which
      in 2011, and acknowledging the                    committed the Project to resolving the century-old
      challenges posed by the political                 land ownership and related conflicts in
      and ethnic complexities as                        Cherangany Hills (and nationwide). In hindsight
      background, the Panel notes that                  these circumstances weakened the effectiveness
      the moratorium could instead have                 of the mitigation measures that had been
      been identified as a critical risk                developed for the initial Project design and
      mitigation measure during Project                 Project area.
      preparation.
                                                        Management appreciates the Panel’s
                                                        commendation for securing the 2011 moratorium
      The Panel commends the swift and
                                                        on evictions. Management notes that it would
      consistent response of Bank
                                                        have been impractical to secure such a
      Management when it became aware
                                                        moratorium during Project preparation because:
      of [the] evictions. These actions
                                                        (i) the background events surrounding the
      included securing a moratorium on
                                                        national elections that displaced hundreds of
      evictions in 2011, through which the
                                                        thousands of people who sought refuge in
      GoK confirmed that no further
                                                        Cherangany and other forest zones were just
      evictions of people from the forests
                                                        starting to unfold as the Project was delivered;
      will be carried out until applicable
                                                        and (ii) the GoK had requested the Project not to
      safeguard instruments were put in
                                                        be implemented in Cherangany, which was only
      place.
                                                        formally included in the Project as an intervention
                                                        area as a result of the 2011 restructuring. A
      The Panel also recognizes and
                                                        moratorium did thus not appear to be needed
      appreciates Management’s
                                                        during the 2007-2008 Project preparation.
      proactive stance towards the forceful
      evictions that are taking place after             After the Project was prepared, implementation
      the closure of the Project,                       included: (i) frequent dialogue on land access
      encapsulated in the Bank                          and legacy issues; (ii) intensive implementation
      President’s statement that the World              support, such as a mission every ten weeks on
      Bank is not a “bystander.”                        average; and (iii) highly responsive follow up
                                                        directly and through the borrower to any
                                                        concerns or complaints received from
                                                        stakeholders – as was recognized in the Panel
                                                        report. Management believes that these and


                                                 19
Kenya


No.     Issue/Finding                             IP         Comment
                                                 Para.
                                                             other efforts have helped to identify and mitigate
                                                             risks of eviction of displaced people, landslide
                                                             victims and indigenous forest communities to
                                                             some degree.
2.      Resettlement in the NRMP                 10,         Management believes that it would have been
        The original Project design included     11,         neither possible nor required under OP 4.12 to
        frameworks to address the risk of        114,        prepare Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) for
        evictions through the IPPF and the       126,        actions that were not planned or conducted within
        RPF, but no planning for their           128         the scope of the Project. Management
        implementation occurred, and no                      acknowledges that Project documents had
        resettlement plan was prepared for                   originally contemplated the possibility of Project
        any forested area under the Project.                 support for resettlement and consequently
        The Panel finds that the lack of                     envisioned the potential preparation of RAPs in
        follow-up actions to the RPF through                 accordance with the RPF. Had the Project
        a RAP represents non-compliance                      supported activities that resulted in displacement
        with OP/BP 4.12 on Involuntary                       as defined in OP 4.12, RAPs would have been
        Resettlement.                                        prepared. As the Management Response in the
        The Panel found incongruity                          eligibility phase points out, however, no such
        between the Project documents and                    activities were in the end supported by the
        Management’s position that no                        Project. While a number of evictions did occur, as
        resettlement was planned under the                   detailed in the eligibility phase Response, these
        NRMP.                                                were not Project-supported activities. While
                                                             agreeing that the risks of unplanned evictions
        The Panel is fully appreciative of the               should have been better provisioned for by the
        significance of the Project                          Project, Management remains of the view that
        objectives, and recognizes                           social safeguard instruments are designed to
        Management’s efforts to respond to                   address Project-induced impacts, and not
        events as they evolved. The Panel                    unrelated government action.
        notes that the Bank displayed a very
        high level of aspiration in attempting
        to respond to an intractable issue
        and support the long-standing
        claims of Indigenous Peoples.

        [T] he Panel throughout its
        investigation has found that the
        Bank was well regarded by all actors
        and continued playing a critical role,
        to the point that clear expectations
        for solving these long-lasting issues
        through the NRMP were raised.

        Given the substantive work
        undertaken in the Project and
        progress made, the Panel heard
        testimonies from the affected
        communities regarding their hope
        that the Bank will remain engaged in
        this sector as it is well equipped to
        play a vital and positive role in the
        future.
3.      Analysis of Institutional Aspects        14,         Management agrees with the Panel that any
        The Panel finds non-compliance           133         durable solution to the complex land and legacy
        with the key provisions of OMS                       issues requires multi-agency interventions, and


                                                        20
                                                              Management Report and Recommendation


No.   Issue/Finding                               IP     Comment
                                                 Para.
      2.20 (Project Appraisal), during                   notes that the Panel recognized the intensive
      initial Project design as they relate to           efforts to bring other agencies and ministries into
      the proper institutional analysis of               the dialogue as noted below. At the same time,
      the capacities of KFS. In this                     Management recognizes that KFS’s institutional
      context, the Panel particularly                    and mandate limitations did not fully equip it to
      highlights the challenges resulting                take the lead in concerted efforts to resolve
      from the implementation of activities              complex land and legacy issues. These
      that would have required multi-                    limitations contributed to Management’s decision
      agency interventions, such as                      to restructure the Project in 2011, as explicitly
      resettlement operations, given that                discussed in the Restructuring Paper.
      Component 2 of the NRMP did not
                                                         Despite these limitations, the central role of KFS
      target any agencies beyond the
                                                         in forest governance is indisputable, and in
      KFS.
                                                         Management’s view, the primary focus of the
                                                         Project on helping KFS as a new agency develop
      During the Panel’s field visits,
                                                         the requisite capacity was an appropriate one.
      authorities described an evolution in
      their approach to address issues of
      relocation and land use rights during
      the years of Project implementation.
      […]These officials also expressed
      an appreciation for the positive work
      under the Project to support their
      capacity efforts and to emphasize
      building dialogue and relations with
      local people, indicating
      that this had helped enhance their
      work and relations with these
      communities.
4.    Project Supervision                        16,     Management takes note of the Panel’s finding.
      The Panel finds that Management            141
      responded repeatedly and firmly and
      brought to the attention of the
      Borrower instances of non-
      compliance with social safeguards
      obligations, as required by OP/BP
      13.05, including securing a
      moratorium on evictions.
5.    Use of VMGs instead of IPs                 17-     Management appreciates the Panel’s finding that
      The Panel finds that the use of the        18,     the use of the term VMGs does not in itself
      term VMGs instead of Indigenous            202-    amount to non-compliance with OP/BP 4.10. As
      Peoples does not in itself amount to       204     noted in the eligibility phase Management
      non-compliance with OP/BP 4.10                     Response, the Bank has adopted this term in
      because the policy does not require                applying OP 4.10 in Kenya at the request of the
      its use to ensure protection of the                GoK, in order to be consistent with the
      rights included therein.                           terminology of the new constitution. It is
      At the same time, the Panel notes                  Management’s view that OP 4.10 allows flexible
      that for the Cherangany-Sengwer                    adaptation of terminology, and that the adoption
      the term Indigenous Peoples is                     of the term VMG does not diminish the
      central to their self-identity and                 substantive protections and benefits available to
      therefore for the protection of their              beneficiary communities under the policy.
      customary rights. It is the Panel’s
                                                         With respect to the Panel’s view that “meaningful
      view that meaningful compliance
                                                         compliance” with OP 4.10 calls for more attention
      with the Indigenous Peoples policy
                                                         to be paid to the attachment that a community
      calls for more consideration to be
                                                         itself has to a particular designation,


                                                  21
Kenya


No.     Issue/Finding                            IP         Comment
                                                Para.
        given to a community’s attachment                   Management would like to note that out of the
        to a particular designation through                 1,137 Sengwer Cherangany Indigenous Peoples
        greater consultation and, in ensuring               consulted during the Process Framework and
        that the use of any other designation               VMGP preparation process, and the 170
        does not dilute the full customary                  Cherangany-Sengwer Indigenous Peoples
        rights of IPs as enshrined in OP                    representatives who participated in the public
        4.10.                                               disclosure of the Process Framework on May 27,
                                                            2011, only 2 people objected to the use of the
                                                            term VMG instead of Indigenous Peoples. The
                                                            majority of the other speakers stated
                                                            categorically that for them, it did not matter
                                                            whether they were referred to as VMGs or
                                                            Indigenous Peoples, but only that they benefited
                                                            from the Project. During recent engagements
                                                            with Indigenous Peoples’ Organizations (IPOs) in
                                                            Kenya as part of the ongoing Country Social
                                                            Analysis on Social Exclusion, 21 representatives
                                                            from 18 IPOs from across Kenya informed the
                                                            Bank team that they had themselves played a
                                                            critical role during the constitution-making
                                                            process in Kenya, which resulted in the inclusion
                                                            of the positive articles (see above) on
                                                            marginalized groups and communities.
                                                            In short, it is Management’s view that during
                                                            Project implementation, the Bank was sufficiently
                                                            attentive to the issue of terminology, and
                                                            confirmed through extensive consultations that
                                                            adoption of the term VMG was of minimal
                                                            concern to relevant communities. The results of
                                                            these consultations are consistent with
                                                            subsequent meetings with national IPOs that
                                                            have similarly indicated satisfaction with efforts to
                                                            more closely align OP 4.10 application with the
                                                            Constitution of Kenya.
6.      Customary Rights and Livelihood         20,         As previously noted, Management acknowledges
        Program                                 22,         that a number of the ambitious proposals for
        The Panel notes that the focus on       210,        addressing land and forest resource rights
        livelihood support, whilst beneficial   227         contained in the IPPF were ultimately not
        to recipients, represented a move                   pursued, for reasons expressed in the
        away from a focus on the protection                 Restructuring Paper. However, despite adopting
        of customary rights to forest                       a more modest (and in the circumstances,
        resources. The Panel finds that                     realistic) approach to these issues, the Project
        overlooking customary rights                        nevertheless pursued a significant number of
        after restructuring represents                      actions designed to protect Indigenous Peoples’
        non-compliance with OP/BP 4.10.                     customary rights to forest resources, in line with
        The Panel therefore finds non-                      OP/BP 4.10.
        compliance with Paragraph 21 of OP                  As per OP 4.10 (paragraph 21), NRMP sought to
        4.10 because the proper steps                       avoid involuntary restrictions on Indigenous
        required to address the potential                   Peoples’ access to legally designated parks and
        loss of customary rights were not                   protected areas, in particular access to their
        taken as provided by the Policy.                    sacred sites. KFS prepared, with the free, prior,
        On the question of whether or not                   and informed consultation of the affected
        non-indigenous peoples living in the                indigenous communities, a Process Framework
        mixed communities with indigenous                   to be followed if it later became impossible to


                                                       22
                                                              Management Report and Recommendation


No.   Issue/Finding                               IP     Comment
                                                 Para.
      people should have benefitted from                 avoid restricting access to the gazetted forest. It
      livelihood activities under the                    was clarified during the extensive consultations
      Project, the Panel finds that by                   that the Process Framework was, first and
      ensuring that benefits from livelihood             foremost, an instrument to enable indigenous
      activities in mixed communities                    communities and the KFS to address issues of
      reach IPs as well as non-indigenous                restrictions of access to forests and forest
      peoples the Bank is in compliance                  resources, should such restrictions become
      with OP/BP 4.10.                                   unavoidable. The Process Framework also
                                                         established a GRM, which was used by
      The Panel heard positive comments                  Indigenous Peoples and KFS during Project
      and appreciation regarding the                     implementation.
      benefits of the livelihood program                 This Process Framework was prepared in 2011
      implemented under the VMGPs.                       with full participation of the affected indigenous
      This appreciation was to such a                    communities, in accordance with the principle of
      great extent that many community                   free, prior and informed consultations. The draft
      members requested the Panel to                     Process Framework was publicly disclosed to
      convey to Management and KFS                       the Cherangany-Sengwer on May 26, 2011,
      that the Project should be extended                with participation by 170 indigenous peoples’
      beyond its closing date and that                   representatives. The public disclosure offered
      identified beneficiaries should not be             an opportunity for the indigenous
      penalized because of procurement                   representatives not only to learn about the
      delays that have occurred at the                   outcome of the month-long consultations in
      Project level.                                     which they had participated, but also to
                                                         enhance, validate and adopt the draft Process
      From the outset, the Panel notes the               Framework.
      many positive comments expressed
                                                         During both the consultative process to prepare
      by community members with whom
                                                         the Process Framework and its public
      the Panel interacted during its visits
                                                         disclosure, it was made clear that the objective
      regarding the benefits of the
                                                         of the Process Framework was to establish the
      livelihood support program
                                                         principles and procedures by which members of
      implemented under the Project
                                                         potentially affected communities would
      following the restructuring. It is clear
                                                         participate in: (i) planning Project activities; (ii)
      to the Panel that through the support
                                                         determining measures necessary to achieve
      for alternative and culturally
                                                         policy objectives; and (iii) implementing and
      appropriate livelihoods, the VMGPs
                                                         monitoring Project activities.
      had a significant and positive impact
      on many members of the affected                    The Process Framework also established a
      communities who received benefits                  four-step and time-bound grievances redress
      under the Program. The Panel also                  mechanism for any grievances that might arise
      heard comments by KFS officials                    during implementation. This mechanism was
      who appreciated the VMGP as it                     deployed by affected communities and KFS
      provided a more constructive                       during Project implementation.
      platform for communication and
                                                         Furthermore, by the close of the Project, KFS
      interaction with communities.
                                                         began working to apply the Process Framework
                                                         nationwide – showing not only NRMP
      The Panel also recognizes that the
                                                         compliance with OP 4.10 but actively
      positive interaction between KFS
                                                         supporting mainstreaming of the principles of
      and communities in the context of
                                                         OP 4.10 into broader Government programs
      VMGP is likely to have contributed
                                                         involving forests.
      to better understanding and
      communication in what had been a                   The participatory preparation of VMGPs, initiated
      tense relationship. The Panel notes                by KFS in 2011, was part of a comprehensive
      that Management took a courageous                  strategy to protect livelihoods dependent on
      decision to restructure the Project                customary rights and access, and should not be
      instead of simply cancelling it, which

                                                  23
Kenya


No.     Issue/Finding                           IP        Comment
                                               Para.
        could have been an “easier way out”               viewed as a standalone activity. To mitigate
        of the emerging situation.                        potential impacts identified during the SA,
                                                          including restriction of access to forest resources,
                                                          and as a poverty reduction strategy, indigenous
                                                          communities had requested to be supported with
                                                          livelihood micro-projects. The VMGPs were
                                                          prepared with full participation of the indigenous
                                                          communities, who decided on micro-projects that
                                                          would suit both their land ownership status and
                                                          also act as a boost to their current livelihood
                                                          activities. Bank Management has expressed
                                                          concern to the GoK that the good results from the
                                                          livelihoods activities were compromised during
                                                          the post-Project evictions in early 2014.
                                                          In addition, the NRMP supported activities to
                                                          introduce co-management of forest resources
                                                          including PFM. The Panel noted that PFM
                                                          requires a very long time to put in place. In Kenya
                                                          there was little experience with PFM. The NRMP
                                                          strategy was to build trust over time among all
                                                          forest stakeholders using a variety of measures
                                                          including: (i) capacity building at KFS, (ii)
                                                          capacity building of communities such as through
                                                          their own VMGPs, and (iii) development of a PFM
                                                          pilot intervention by the Ogiek indigenous
                                                          community that could be scaled up later. The
                                                          Ogiek PFM pilot has been successful and
                                                          continues to date.
                                                          Lastly, whenever complaints were received by
                                                          Management about alleged restrictions of forest
                                                          access, Management consistently and quickly
                                                          acted by reaching out to the borrower and
                                                          responding to complainants. Through this intense
                                                          implementation support, a number of instances of
                                                          infringements on customary rights were resolved.
7.      Consultations                          23,        Management acknowledges that there was
        The Panel finds that the earlier       226        strong community support for the original Project
        Project documents including the                   safeguard documents, including the IPPF. At the
        PAD, IPPF and SA led to strong                    same time, Management believes that the
        support from parts of the community               subsequent decision to modify the approach
        because of their wide coverage of                 outlined in the IPPF, made at the time of Project
        key substantive issues in line with               restructuring, was undertaken in a manner that
        Indigenous Peoples’ claims in a                   was consistent with the letter and spirit of OP
        manner that was consistent with                   4.10.
        OP/BP 4.10.
                                                          As referred to in the Restructuring Paper, the
        The restructured Project, on the
                                                          Project supported the preparation and
        other hand, contrasted with OP
                                                          implementation of the communities’ own VMGPs
        4.10’s spirit and letter because it
                                                          as a way to advance the IPPF in accordance with
        was developed without proper
                                                          OP 4.10. These VMGPs included livelihood and
        consultation. The Panel finds that
                                                          CDD types of activities, building upon the SA that
        the absence of prior consultation as
                                                          was completed in June 2010. Preparation of the
        well as the delay in disclosure of
                                                          VMGPs was based on the principle of free, prior
        information regarding Project
                                                          and informed consultation resulting in broad
        restructuring raises an issue of
                                                          community support as a prerequisite for Bank


                                                     24
                                              Management Report and Recommendation


No.   Issue/Finding               IP     Comment
                                 Para.
      compliance with OP 4.10.           financing. These consultations included explicit
                                         discussion and explanation of the fact that the
                                         Project would not be able to support a number of
                                         measures mentioned in the IPPF concerning the
                                         resolution of land rights and hence such activities
                                         would not be included in the VMGPs, which were
                                         tailored to the specific conditions and contexts of
                                         the Indigenous Peoples communities.
                                         The GoK and the NRMP team discussed the
                                         proposed restructuring with the affected people
                                         and IPO leaders on a number of occasions. In
                                         May 2011 leaders of the Cherangany-Sengwer
                                         communities were informed of the proposed
                                         restructuring at a meeting with the then country
                                         director at the World Bank offices in Nairobi.
                                         Between April 7, 2011 and July 28, 2011,
                                         communities were informed of the proposed
                                         restructuring through the consultations held to
                                         develop the VMGPs and the Process Framework.
                                         The public disclosure of the VMGP for Sengwer
                                         was undertaken July 11, 2011. Over 1,137
                                         Sengwer were consulted on the VMGP and
                                         Framework development. During those
                                         consultations it was made clear that the approach
                                         outlined in the IPPF was being adapted to allow
                                         the development of VMGPs that were within the
                                         remit of the Project. It was equally made clear
                                         that some aspects in the IPPF would not be
                                         achievable under the Project. The VMGPs were
                                         tailored to the specific conditions and contexts of
                                         the Indigenous Peoples communities.




                                  25
