 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14893

                 ICR Review
                 Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 02/23/2016

               Country: Kenya
             Project ID: P095050                                                  Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Kenya - Natural              Project Costs (US$M):                     78.0                61.9
                         Resource
                         Management Project
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                      68.5                56.9
      Sector Board:      Agriculture and Rural       Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Development
          Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                  03/27/2007
                                                              Closing Date:            06/30/2013            06/30/2013
         Sector(s):       Irrigation and drainage (58%); Forestry (31%); General agriculture; fishing and forestry
                          sector (6%); Central government administration (5%)
         Theme(s):        Other rural development (40%); Water resource management (40%); Rural services and
                          infrastructure (20%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Santhadevi Meenakshy Ridley Nelson                Christopher David         IEGPS1
                                                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The original Financing Agreement of 2007 stated the Project Development Objective (PDO) as follows: ”to
    enhance the Recipient's institutional capacity to manage water and forest resources, reduce the incidence and
    severity of water shocks such as drought, floods and water shortage in river catchments, and improve the
    livelihoods of communities participating in the co-management of water and forest resources”.

    The PDO was revised during a restructuring in June 2011 as follows: “to improve the management of water and
    forest resources in selected districts.”


b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 06/10/2011

c. Components:

    Component 1: Water Resource Management and Irrigation (Appraisal cost: US$44.2 million; Actual cost US$31.8
    million {Annex 1 ICR}).The component had two sub-components.

    (a) Strengthening the capacity of the Water Resources Management Authority (WRMA) including direct
    investments in the Upper Tana Catchment. This supported implementation of laws, policies, and regulations
    related to Water Resources Management (WRM), following promulgation of the 2002 Water Act.
(b) Consolidation of irrigation reforms and investments. This supported: (i) development of infrastructure; (ii)
reforms at the National Irrigation Board (NIB), which included, preparation of an Irrigation Strategy and Business
Plan, and inputs into the Irrigation Act; and, (iii) creation and strengthening of participatory Irrigation Water User
Associations (IWUAs).


Component 2, Management of Forest Resources (Appraisal cost US$20.0 million; Actual cost US $19.9 million {
Annex 1 ICR}). The component aimed to improve forest governance, participation and investment by
stakeholders. It had three sub-components:

(a) Forest sector institutional reforms. This supported: (i) transformation of the Forestry Department into a
semi-autonomous Kenya Forest Service (KFS); (ii) enhancement of governance; and, (iii) improvement of
revenues for forest management.

(b) Community participation and benefit sharing. This supported: (i) articulation of rights and responsibilities of
stakeholders; (ii) definition of processes for developing arrangements; and, (iii) approval of management plans
and benefit-sharing mechanisms.

(c) Community and private sector investments in commercial forestry. This supported: (i) revitalization of Kenya's
forest industries in line with the Forestry Act; (ii) closer integration between forest products manufacturing,
harvesting and forest management goals; and, (iii) activities to increase rural income.

Component 3, Livelihood Investments in the Upper Tana Catchment (Appraisal cost US$ 5.5 million; Actual cost
US$ 5.6 million {Annex 1 ICR}). This component supported a Community Driven Development (CDD) approach
for managing catchments and forest perimeters by: (i) developing livelihood enhancing schemes that supported
the natural resource base, such as afforestation, private sector/community partnerships for timber, fuel-wood and
pulp production, tree seedlings; and, (ii) introducing productivity-enhancing techniques of agro-forestry and
conservation farming.

Component 4, Management and M&E (Appraisal cost US$4.3 million; Actual cost US$ 4.6 million {Annex 1 ICR}
). The component promoted an integrated approach to management and measuring results. Activities supported
under this component also addressed issues related to resource rights and conflict over land and resettlement,
necessary for the irrigation infrastructure.

Restructuring
The project was restructured twice on 06/24/2011 and 06/20/2013. As part of the 2011 restructuring, the PDO
was simplified, scope of components 1 and 2 were revised, outcome indicators were changed and 21 percent of
the credit was reallocated. It also increased disbursement percentages by category and eliminated some
outdated covenants.


The following changes were made in two components:

Component 1:
The first sub-component was amended to: (i) introduce fast-track execution of small-scale investments directly by
WRMA, such as small check dams and flow regulation structures to address design flaws and other
implementation delays; and, (ii) provide technical assistance for priority pilot groundwater management initiatives
(Kikuyu Springs) and a new groundwater management policy.

The second sub-component was amended to change and narrow the focus including: (i) the design and
construction of the new Lower Nzoia Irrigation Scheme. But due to reduced budget for the implementing
agencies, implementation slowed down and the construction was transferred to an IDA-financed project based on
the design developed under NRMP; (ii) rehabilitating the Mwea system, dropping rehabilitation of Ahero, West
Kano and Perkerra systems, but maintaining the capacity building of their IWUAs; and, (iii) the reform process at
NIB.

Component 2
This component was revised to: (i) strengthen the participatory approaches for forest dependent people including
vulnerable and marginalized groups (VMGs); and, (ii) strengthen the climate change dimensions of forest
management, in line with the GoK’s adoption of a National Climate Change Response Strategy in April 2010.

The revision also introduced additional actions to improve project implementation with respect to safeguards
   OP4.10 and OP4.12. This included among other agreed actions: (i) preparing Vulnerable Marginalized Groups
   Plans (VMGPs); (ii) advancing the Process Framework (PF); and, (iii) providing technical assistance to facilitate
   the establishment and operation of an Inter-Ministerial Task Force on Land and Legacy Issues to ensure that
   land tenure and user rights of indigenous people were adequately addressed.

   In the 2013 restructuring, unspent credit proceeds totaling US$7.24 million were cancelled before closing due to
   limited absorptive capacity. Some of the remaining funds were reallocated among disbursement categories.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project Cost:
   Total actual project cost was US$ 61.9 million compared with a total appraised project cost of US$ 78.0 million.
   The actual cost did not include contingency cost of US$ 7.00 million (physical contingency of US$ 1.2million and
   price contingency of US$ 6.8 million). As noted above, US$ 7.24 million was cancelled as part of the last
   restructuring on 6/20/2013.

   (Note that the contingency costs and cancellation sum to US$ 14.24 million. When subtracted from the appraisal
   estimate the total is US$ 63.76 million, higher by US $ 1.86 million than the ICR reported actual. The remainder is
   attributable to exchange rate changes.)

   Financing:
   The total actual financing is reported in the ICR (Annex 1 table) as US$ 81.60 million equivalent from IDA which
   was clearly an error since there was no additional financing. The actual figure given in the project portal data is
   US$56.9 million.
   Borrower Contribution:
   The borrower contribution increased from US$ 6.0 million at appraisal to US$ 149.05 million at closure (Annex 1
   ICR). The large increase is not explained in the ICR but appears to be due to large additional beneficiary
   contributions being counted as a contribution which were not counted in the PAD.

   Dates:
   The project closed on 06/30/2013 as planned.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   As noted above, IEG has applied a split rating to assess the relevance of objectives and design due to a
   substantial change in the scope of the revised objective from the original objective.
   Original
   Rated Substantial

   At the design stage, the original development objective (DO) was consistent with the goals of the Bank’s Country
   Assistance Strategy 2004-2007 and the Government’s Investment Program for the Economic Recovery Strategy
   for Wealth and Employment Generation (IP-ERS). The DO contributed towards the Water Act 2002 in
   empowering the Water Resources Users Association (WRUAs) and the Forest Act of 2005 in enabling
   community participation in forest resource utilization and conservation. However according to the ICR and later
   comments on the draft ICRR from the project team it was seen as an excessively ambitious objective.

   At closure, the DO remained relevant to the Kenya Vision 2030 in regard to two focus areas, watershed systems
   and irrigation for domestic food security. It was also relevant to the current at closing Country Partnership
   Strategy (CPS 2010 -13) in addressing agricultural productivity and food security under pillar 1 of the CPS.

   Revised
   Rated Modest

   The revised objective is rated modest primarily due to its vague and non-specific nature and its failure to identify
   a purpose for the improved management. While recognizing that the original objective may have been somewhat
   over-ambitious, for example in terms of reducing drought and flood shocks, the revised objective could have
   better reflected the project’s logical chain even with the reduced ambition of approach. The weakness of the
   revised objective specification was not helped by the lack of associated measurable indicators that would have
   demonstrated the extent to which “improved water and forest management in selected districts” had been
   achieved and for whom or for what environmental purposes. Furthermore, the narrowed specification to “in
   selected districts” left a question of why then would support continue for higher institutional level KFS activities
   and support.



b. Relevance of Design:

   Original
   Rated Modest

   The project design was based on consultations with development partners and key stakeholders including
   donors, private sector and communities. It took into consideration experiences from the past and on-going
   interventions. The design proposed activities to manage water and forest resources through strengthening and/or
   changing the nature of the responsible parastatals, developing the information base, enhancing the legal and
   regulatory framework, financing investments, and engaging communities in co-management and
   community-driven micro-projects. The three core project components were intended to lay the groundwork for
   integrated watershed management, while the fourth component supported real time monitoring of the component
   activities and its results. The project design emphasized community level engagement with irrigation users, water
   user associations, community forest associations, and vulnerable and marginalized peoples groups (largely
   located in and around forests).

   But there were several significant shortfalls.

   It failed to: (i) provide detailed designs for the irrigation investments with clearly defined responsibilities between
   the National Irrigation Board (NIB) and MoWI; and, (ii) link triggers for NIB investments with progress of sector
   level reforms. This was exacerbated by post-election violence in 2007-2008 (ICR p. 8).

   It established what the ICR considered unrealistic targets such as: (i) reducing by 20% the sediment load in rivers
   and reservoirs; (ii) adopting recommended land use practices within the targeted catchments in 80% of
   households; (iii) adopting payment for environmental services (PES) in 50 schemes; and, (iv) enabling 50 new
   forest investment requests from communities and the private sector due to the improved investment climate.

   As noted in the ICR, the original design overlooked the enormity of the long-standing land/ forest conflicts and
   therefore underestimated the complexity of the project context. This created difficulties in defining the boundary
   not only between activities of the project and those outside the project, but also in defining appropriate safeguard
   obligations in the forested implementation areas ( p.8 ICR).

   Overall, the original results framework failed to effectively link the outcomes with the PDO, and to capture the
   on-the-ground reality of the Project.

   Revised
   Rated Modest

   While there were some design improvements in the redesign accompanying the main restructuring, the new
   statement of objectives was not well linked to intermediate or final outcomes; there were gaps and weak links in
   the causal chain. In adjusting to the narrowed objective of improving management of water and forest resources
   in selected districts, there were three main areas of weakness.

   First, the Results Framework dropped a number of indicators. Some were unrealistic but others, such as
   beneficiary satisfaction with micro-projects and adoption of improved land practices, would have still been
   valuable. In place of these, the new framework offered little to measure that could have helped to answer the key
   evaluative question of how resource management was improving, especially in forest management.

   Second, it is not clear how the design adjusted to the focus only on selected districts. The logical chain seems to
   have had some missing links. Judging by the continued funding of overarching KFS capacity building and other
   support, there remained during implementation a focus that went beyond merely selected districts. There seemed
   no clear strategy linking the district level project support with the broader agency level support. As noted in the
   previous paragraph there was little measurement of proxy indicators provided for to show what might be
   changing on the ground in terms of KFS or community management capacity or in terms of inter-institutional
   linkages at national and district level.
   Third, in the redesign at restructuring, beyond a measure of avoidance in the narrowing to selected districts, there
   was little enhanced clarity on the Indigenous Peoples’ Planning Framework (IPPF) in relation to customary
   rights, The IPPF focused on operationalizing development plans for the vulnerable and marginal groups. The
   Bank did not sufficiently address the potential conflict issues related to peoples' customary rights. According to
   the ICR the IPPF raised unrealistic expectations. But it should be noted that the Bank had cleared the IPPF and
   the PAD supported its implementation.



4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   The PDO in the 2007 Financing Agreement was: “to enhance the Recipient's institutional capacity to manage
   water and forest resources, reduce the incidence and severity of water shocks such as drought, floods and water
   shortage in river catchments and improve the livelihoods of communities participating in the co-management of
   water and forest resources.”

   The restructured PDO was: “to improve the management of water and forest resources in selected districts.”

   The original PDO includes four sub-objectives and the revised PDO two sub-objectives. Each sub-objective is
   rated below.

   The ICR identified external factors that detracted from achievement of the PDO, the very difficult political reality
   stemming from post-election violence that resulted in the displacement of hundreds of thousands of people, the
   complex politics of ethnic struggles, as well as land ownership conflicts that have deep historical roots. These
   external factors compounded the other issues encountered during the implementation of the Project.

   ORIGINAL OBJECTIVE

   (a) Enhance the Recipient's institutional capacity to manage water resources
   Rated Modest

   Outputs ( with indirect impact on water resources)
   1) 81 individual training and 2 group training sessions were held on WRM, procurement, financial management,
   project management, record keeping and monitoring
   2) 51 Water Resources Users Association (WRUAs) had their Sub-Catchment Management Plans (SCMP)
   approved by WRMA under implementation (target 30, achieved 136%).
   3) 172 community-user groups were collaborating with the GoK institutions in water activities. 50.5% of which
   were women.
   4) With an indirect impact on water resources, 460 forest maps were digitized (target 461—achieved 99.8%,
   Annex 2, p.39)
   5) Again with an indirect impact on water, forest Resource Assessment was completed for 140,000 acre of
   plantation forests (target 120,000 acre- achieved 116% Annex 2, p. 39)

   Intermediate Outcomes and Outcomes
   It is not very clear from quantified evidence how the overall capacity to manage water changed. There was
   greater information developed that had an impact on water resources through such means as digitized forest
   maps and water resource assessment reports. It is reported that: (i) awareness increased among the WRU on
   guidelines for developing the SCMPs and for implementing integrated watershed management; and, (ii) capacity
   to assess the submitted plans strengthened in the WRMAs. Development and implementation of SCMPs based
   on participatory approaches and public outreach allowed for expanding experiences to other catchments.

   (b) Enhance the Recipient's institutional capacity to manage forest resources
   Rated Modest
   Outputs
   1) 28 Kenya Forest Service Strategic plans selected for implementation under NRMP completed ( p.37 Annex 2).
   2) 388 KFS staff were trained in various skills including forest assessment, transformative leadership, VMGs
   conflict management and participatory forest management skills (p.38 Annex 2).
   3) 460 forest maps were digitized ( target 461, p. 39 Annex 2).
   4) Forest Resource Assessment was completed for 140,000 acre of plantation forests (target 120,000 acre P. 39
   Annex 2).
   5) 6 Five Year Participatory Forest Management Plan were developed.
   6) 4,800 Kenya Forest Service (KFS) staff were trained on investment opportunities.
Intermediate Outcomes and Outcomes
 It is not very clear how these activities changed the institution’s management capacity of the forest sector in
terms of management efficiency improvement over earlier levels of efficiency. However, according to the project
team there is new evidence and recognition since project closure of the role of Community Forest Associations in
contributing to forest expansion and management, seen as a first step toward decentralized resource
management. However, no related outcomes were evidenced, for example, in terms of response times to illegal
activity or changes in community attitudes to participation or relationships with forest staff.

(c) Reduce the incidence and severity of water shocks such as drought, floods and water shortage in river
catchments
Rated Negligible
No evidence of outputs and outcomes were reported. According to the ICR, the project did not provide financing
for activities which were designed to actively reduce water shocks in river catchments in the project areas. It was
considered too ambitious by the mid-term review team and this was addressed during the 2011 restructuring
(Section 1.3 p. 2 ICR).

(d) Improve the livelihoods of communities participating in the co-management of water and forest resources.
Rated Modest
Outputs
1) US$5,650,000 of investment on CDD micro-projects was financed (113% of the budgeted amount of
US$5,000,000 )
2) 713 livelihood based micro-projects were supported, of which 51% were women (142% over the target of 500)
The impact of some of these is documented in selected (as far as we can tell not randomly selected) case
write-ups in the ICR.

Intermediate Outcomes and Outcomes
Family income is reported to have increased through the sale of products such as milk, greenhouse production of
vegetables, eggs, poultry etc. but there is no survey evidence of this impact only the few limited case reports.
Training on governance, procurement and technical skills related to specific micro-project activities is reported to
have strengthened the communities enabling them to organize into groups to better manage their interests and
become involved in the project management and safeguard-related activities.

REVISED OBJECTIVE
(a) Improve management of water resources in selected districts

Rated Substantial

This is discussed under two headings: overall water management and irrigation management although the latter
is an element in the former.

 As noted under the relevance of design, it is not clear how the indicators for water resource management
improvement "in the selected districts" were different from the broader pre-restructuring objective which had not
narrowed the management improvement to selected districts. The selected districts (ICR p. 77) were: Kiambu,
Thika, Muranga, Nyeri, Kirinyaga,Laikipia, Nyandarua, Mbeere, Machakos, Mt. Elgon, West Pokot, Kakamega,
Vihiga, ButereMumias; Lugari, Bungoma, Busia, UasinGishu, Trans Nzoia, Keiyo, Nandi North, Nandi South,
Marakwet, Ugunja, Siaya, Bunyala, Kirinyaga East, Mwea East and Mwea West. There appears to be little
evidence in the ICR on changes in water management practices in many of these districts. However, there is
evidence from Mwea (Ndiiri et al 2013), the largest rice irrigation area in Kenya, of improvements in rice crop
management and water use efficiency. This is cited below.

(i) Overall Water Management
Outputs
1) Revenue from water use charges collected by the Water Resources Management Authority (WRMA)
increased by Ksh 37 million (baseline Ksh 267 million, target Ksh 366 million, achieved 100%). (This goes
beyond the selected districts.) However, it is questionable how far this revenue recovery, much of which came
from one major corporation that had been delinquent in its payments, is any indication of “improvement in the
management of water resources” or even is attributable to the project. Improved water use charges are an
ultimately necessary but far from sufficient condition for improved water management. (Sedimentation changes,
an original indicator but apparently too difficult to collect, would have been a better indication of changes in water
management on the ground.)
2) 51 Water Resources Users Association (WRUAs) had their Sub-Catchment Management Plans (SCMP)
approved by WRMA under implementation (target 30, achieved 136%).
3) Nearly 120,000 members of community based organizations (CBOs) were mobilized and trained in sub-project
management. Of these, 3,332 sub-project proposals were received from 713 CBOs, and 706 micro-projects were
financed by NRMP.
4) 81 individual training and 2 group training sessions were held on WRM, procurement, financial management,
project management, record keeping and monitoring.
5) A National Irrigation Strategy and Irrigation Reform Implementation Strategy was prepared.
6) A National Groundwater Policy was developed.

Intermediate Outcomes and Outcomes

Decentralized water resource activities linked WRUAs with WRMA in the design and execution of Sub Catchment
Management Plans (SCMPs) and there was increase in the revenue from water users for WRMA. There is limited
evidence on what the impact of the management plans was on water management.
Indirect benefits are reported for: (i) farmers downstream from the forested water towers (such as the Lower
Nzoia); (ii) users of power from the Masinga and Kamburu dams, and Nairobi residents who were dependent on
Sasumua and Ndakaini dams for water supply. But it is not reported what the benefits were. (For example, did
siltation of Sasumua dam slow, did it fill more consistently, or was water quality better?)
Communities and associations were able to implement community driven development (CDD) sub-projects. The
project-financed micro-projects supported livelihoods for 4,145 direct beneficiaries, and nearly 25,000
beneficiaries including household members (p.17 Section 3.2 ICR). However, it should be noted that only some
of the micro-projects were related to improving water management.
Overall, there was somewhat limited evidence in the ICR of "improved management of water resources in
selected districts" but the Mwea data below that has been obtained by IEG recently offers some evidence in
relation to rice irrigation management.


(ii) Irrigation Management
Outputs
1) 9,500 ha were reported to have improved irrigation in project intervention areas (hectares) (target of 9,427 ha,
achieved 100.7% {ICR results framework})
2) 95 % cost recovery for O&M of the project’s irrigation investments (target 70%, achieved 135% {ICR results
framework})
3) NIB delivered capacity building interventions to 11,162 farmers out of which 30% were women and 20% youth
against the appraisal target of 8,500 users in the five schemes (p.35 Annex 2. ICR)
4) Design of Lower Nzoia irrigation scheme was completed but not the implementation.

Intermediate Outcomes and Outcomes
The project contributed to:

1) piloting the “System of Rice Intensification” in Mwea. According to the ICR, the pilot “System of Rice
Intensification” allowed some participating Mwea rice farmers to conserve water, increase yields by
approximately 20% and reduce water use by roughly a third. The ICR itself is not very clear about sources of
evidence on SRI productivity and water savings nor about the methodology of data collection and analysis. The
project team provided some additional evidence from a recent research experiment that showed significant yield
gains and water saving but this was on a research plot scale and did not offer evidence of farmer yields or
adoption. However, during this review IEG was able to find additional evidence in (Ndiiri et al. 2013). This study
surveyed a sample of 40 farmers and found a 33% yield increase, a 13% reduction in seed, and a 9% increase in
labor. Over two seasons the B:C ratios went from 1.30 and 1.35 to 1.76 and 1.88 respectively. The study also
reports an SRI adoption rate from Mwea Scheme MIS data increasing from 2 adopting farmers in 2009 to 2,700
in 2012 (out of about 11,000 farmers). There is some indication from other sources of a continuation of this quite
rapid adoption trend since 2012. In addition, it is expected that farmers will now pay for water by volume instead
of the earlier flat rate. This can be expected to increase the incentive for adoption of the SRI water saving
technology in the future beyond simply the yield increase. Water saving in this study (SRI involves allowing a
short period of drying out with no standing water) was estimated to be 26%, a significant reduction. This Mwea
evidence is important for the efficiency analysis as is discussed under the Efficiency section.

2) The ICR reports a strengthening of the capacity of NIB to implement activities and carry out its mandate. (In
five years, NIB moved from an empty pipeline of schemes to processing 119 projects for a total possible area of
144,000 ha and a 2012/13 budget of Ksh 11.4 billion (US$142 million).

3) The original target to benefit a total of 30,000 farmers was not fully achieved. Out of the total original 30,000
users targeted to benefit from improved irrigation service in Lower Nzoia and Mwea, 11,000 from Mwea
benefitted from rehabilitation and improved service. 9,500 ha were improved, 7,250 ha of that through
    rehabilitation and 1,250 ha expanded into outgrower areas (this was below the PAD target of 12,800 ha and
    3,500 ha respectively). Satisfaction with O&M services increased from 54% to 95%.

    4) About 4,200 farmers benefited only from improved irrigation services as the proposed Lower Nzoia irrigation
    was not constructed under NRMP (it was transferred to another project KWSCRP-I).

    5) The Irrigation Act and the new Irrigation and Drainage Bill were pending approval and the Irrigation Sector
    Alignment Action Plan, and the Irrigation, Drainage and Water Storage Development Investment Plans were yet
    to be implemented.
    (b) Improve management of forest resources in selected districts
    Rated Substantial
    Output

    As noted under the relevance of design, it is not clear how the indicators for forest resource management
    improvement "in the selected districts" were different from the broader pre-restructuring objective which had not
    narrowed the management improvement to selected districts. There appears to be little district-specific evidence
    on changes in forest management practices. Some of the evidence listed here goes beyond the selected districts
    answering more to the original objectives but having, presumably, some spill-over to selected districts.

    1) Management and geographic information systems were developed.
    2) Three environment audit reports were completed.
    3) A communication strategy was developed.
    4) KFS incorporated a full-time Social Development Specialist to support the agency’s engagements with
    communities beyond the life of NRMP.
    5) The project constructed a modern knowledge management and training center and regional offices.

    Intermediate Outcomes and Outcomes

    1) The community forest associations (CFAs) supported under NRMP reportedly gained practical knowledge in
    NRM. KFS itself supported participatory approaches and extension services but the extent to which this was a
    change over what had been practiced by the Forest Department before is not clear since they had been
    previously supporting some measure of participatory approaches in some areas. Activities were carried out in
    accordance with the Community-led Vulnerable and Marginalized Group Plans (VMGPs) prepared by each
    participating community. An intensive series of participatory consultations was institutionalized under this process
    and VMGs and VMGCCs are reported to have improved their ability to organize as groups and manage their
    enterprises.

     2) 320,000 ha of forests in the project intervention areas were being managed according to approved forest
    management plans (FMP) (target 300,000 ha achieved 106.7% {results framework}) and 7,124 ha were brought
    under forest cover in project intervention areas (Original target of 2,500 ha, achieved 285 percent of the target.
    Revised target of 3,500ha, achieved 203%) There is little evidence in the ICR of what the implementation of
    these approved plans achieved on the ground, for example reporting of illegal felling or illegal forest agriculture
    plots. It is early to expect many measurable changes in forest cover or catchment hydrology. There is also limited
    evidence on the KFS institutional impact at district level. In particular, how did operational effectiveness of district
    offices change?, In the rating of this objective, IEG is giving the benefit of the doubt based largely on assertions
    and one independent observer's report provided by the project team that the management plans are being
    substantially followed in implementation.



5. Efficiency:


    Rated Substantial although there are some uncertainties about evidence and attribution.

    The Project Appraisal Document does not present an aggregate ex-ante economic evaluation, but it presents
    analyses some of the different NRM interventions, such as Sustainable Land Management (SLM), reforestation,
    irrigation, and Community Driven Development Projects CDD) micro-projects. It concluded that most activities
    were likely to be profitable from the beneficiary and project perspective, and that in many cases, the off-site
    effects could be expected to significantly add to the economic viability from society’s perspective.
   An ex-post economic efficiency analysis was conducted by the ICR for selected NRMP activities such as
   agriculture including irrigation, reforestation, and carbon sequestration. While a cumulative ERR of 16.7% was
   found by the ICR, there are questions about some of the assumptions as well as some methodological questions.
   Nearly half the benefit stream depends on the 20% yield gain and extended area in rice, especially at Mwea.
   From the ICR alone it is difficult to assess the validity of the irrigated rice benefit stream since with respect to the
   System of Rice Intensification (SRI) that was to raise yields while reducing water demand there was no
   information on the methodology of data collection and some uncertainty about adoption levels and attribution.
   Supplementary evidence presented by the project team came from a single randomized treatment research plot
   experiment testing SRI so was of little value in assessing actual farmer adoption or yield gains. However, IEG
   was able to find a more relevant farmer adoption study (Ndiiri et al. 2013 J. of Agricultural Water Management)
   that offered some of the missing evidence. This is from a modest sized sample of 40 farmers purposively
   sampled to have adopted SRI on at least some of their land and covering all of the 16 unit areas in the scheme.
   This study found a 33% yield increase, water savings of 26%, 13% seed saving, a 9% increase in labor use
   although some indication that, with experience, this was declining, Over two seasons the B:C ratios went from
   1.30 and 1.35 to 1.76 and 1.88. There are some questions about this study, particularly how the non-SRI yields
   were obtained , but overall it appears to be a solid study. In addition, SRI adoption, reported by this study went
   from 2 farmers in 2009 to 2,700 in 2012 in a population of some 8,000 plot holders. This is a rapid adoption level
   that we believe from another source may have increased further since then. Overall, this new evidence in
   addition to that provided in the ICR offers enough evidence to support the ICR claims for the irrigated agriculture
   part of the economic analysis which is nearly half the total net benefit stream.

   However, there are some weaknesses in methodology related to water management. First, the economic benefit
   claimed of increased government revenue from increased water use charges is not an economic benefit to
   Kenya, it is a financial transfer, nor does it demonstrate improved water management although the project team
   argues that it does. A substantial element of this collection of increased water charges came from a single entity
   that was well behind in its payments. There is no evidence that they decided to pay their arrears because of
   improved water resource management. However, it is argued by the project team that this improved collection,
   which was not solely from this single large entity, gives more funding for improved water management investment
   and operation in the future. While the link between fee collection and budgetary resources is not demonstrated in
   the ICR, IEG accepts that in due course some economic benefits to the economy are likely from better cost
   recovery, particularly if it is across the majority of users. Second, there is a methodological question on prices
   applied. It is not clear from the ICR that border prices were applied and rice in Kenya is protected by a
   substantial tariff. In other words, the rice part of the benefit stream may be overvalued. On the other hand,
   balanced against this, some aspects of the analysis were conservative including no yield increases beyond the
   project period, only a 15 year period for the net benefit stream, and the fact that, with payment for water by
   volume now being introduced, water efficient SRI adoption may increase beyond what was projected in the
   analysis and having some attribution to what was started by the project.

   The Economic Analysis Annex (p. 55) discusses the benefits of reduced deforestation and degradation. There is
   little evidence that shows the extent to which the approved forest management plans were actually implemented,
   for example there is no evidence on early management indicators such as changes in illegal felling or changes in
   reporting of illegal activities by communities. This makes it difficult to judge the validity of the carbon and
   hydrology improvement assumptions. However, IEG accepts that carbon and other less quantifiable benefits of
   more sustainable forest management take some years to start to show effect and that, provided the approved
   plans are being substantially followed, such future benefits that have been valued conservatively, are plausible.

   The costs per beneficiary of the livelihoods investments are quite high relative to global CDD experience and in
   the absence of wider data it is difficult to assess what a representative economic return would be. However,
   about half of them appear likely to have additional environmental benefits beyond the immediate income earning.


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

   Appraisal                        No

   ICR estimate                     Yes                                     16.7%                                    50%
                                       * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:
As noted above, the first restructuring in 2011 is considered the significant one for a before and after weighted
restructuring calculation of the overall outcome rating.

At the time of restructuring, there was a substantial change from the original objectives, partly because performance
to that point was considered to be unlikely to reach the objectives set, partly because some of the indicators were
considered unmeasurable, and partly for simplification and adaptation to changed circumstances. While shifting to a
more realistic objective was better than sustaining an unrealistic one, there was a retreat from some of the
intermediate outcome or outcome objectives such as livelihoods and soil and moisture retention, towards a vague and
difficult to measure objective of improved water and forest resource management. There was also a narrowing of the
scope from an implied national scope to only selected districts although, in implementation, a number of national level
activities were continued. There were advantages in terms of realism from this narrowing of objectives but some loss
of outcome focus.
The original ratings are: Relevance of Objectives rated Substantial; Relevance of Design rated Modest, Efficacy
through the four objectives rated three Modest and one Negligible; Efficiency rated Substantial. This gives an
aggregate rating of Moderately Unsatisfactory.-.

The Restructured ratings are: Relevance of Objectives rated Modest; Relevance of Design rated Modest; Efficacy of
the two objectives rated Substantial; Efficiency rated Substantial. This gives an aggregate outcome rating of
Moderately Satisfactory.

In weighting these, 31% (ICR p. 15, footnote #14) of disbursement was before restructuring and 69% after. The
weighting formula becomes: (0.31 x 3) + (0.69 x 4) = 3.69 or an overall rating of Moderately Satisfactory. Overall, the
project had moderate shortcomings.
 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

     Unresolved land access and customary rights, especially to forest lands, remains a critical risk to the
    development outcome. The lag in safeguard adherence in the resettlement of the Sengwer /Cherangani
    communities poses a risk to development outcome of CDD micro-projects that arose from the VMG Plans
    developed by the vulnerable and marginalized communities of the Cherangani Hills.

    The Kenyan law on the Prevention, Protection and Assistance to Internally Displaced Persons and Affected
    Communities Act of 2012 is relatively closely aligned to World Bank safeguard policy concerning customary
    rights of indigenous people and resettlement. However, in October 2013, nearly four months after the project
    closed, the media widely reported that the GoK was giving vulnerable populations and forest evictees
    Ksh400,000 per household with which to buy land. This implied that the earlier intended plan by the MSSP to
    resettle these groups had shifted and was no longer under consideration by the GoK. Since then, in January
    2014, evictions were carried out in the Cherangani Hills. This could in turn affect the development outcomes
    achieved through the community-driven activities and trust-building support financed by the NRMP. ( ICR p.
    24&25 para 92)

    Also, project costs per household were high, as noted above, and there are questions about O&M of some of the
    sub-project investments in the absence of project support raising some questions about sustainability.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    A social and institutional analysis was carried out during preparation, including stakeholder analysis to identify
appropriate modus operandi. In this process, strengths and weaknesses of the private and public entities were
determined to develop implementation arrangements. However, the Bank failed to define clear responsibilities
between NIB and the Ministry of Water and Irrigation (MoWI) for reform deliverables or link triggers for
investments by NIB with progress in sector level reforms. Some of these issues were exacerbated by post-election
violence in 2007-2008.

Stakeholder participation followed a need-based approach taking into consideration the location specific
disparities. For instance design emphasized community level engagement with irrigation users, water user
associations, community forest associations, and vulnerable and marginalized peoples groups (largely located in
and around forests). Also, at smaller catchment scales, the project’s design focused on participatory resource
management with communities and identified ways for achieving integrated actions that were generally well
conceived – such as through the promotion of sustainable land management (SLM) practices so that conservation
and production goals could converge to enhance livelihoods and prevent erosion.

Introduction of forest co-management as proposed by the project, was an essential part of the reform under the
new Forests Act but the Kenya Forest Service (KFS) was not adequately equipped to implement it. So, it
required a major change in the functioning o( KFS and sustained support to build the capacity of KFS. An
Inspection Panel request was accepted in relation to forest community land rights. According to the Inspection
Panel report dated May 22, 2014 ( Chapter 4 p.58) “While the Project provided training
to some NRMP staff in Participatory Forest Management and safeguard policies related to VMGs, the Panel is of
the view that Management had not sufficiently identified the magnitude of what is required to make such a
paradigm shift during appraisal”.

Gender and poverty aspects were considered and a two-way causal relationship between natural resource
degradation and poverty was reflected in the design.

The project triggered seven safeguard policies and developed measures as required by the Bank. The triggered
policies included: (i) OP/BP 4.01 on environment assessment; (ii) OP/BP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement; (iii)
OP/BP 4.04 on Natural Resources; (iv) OP/BP 4.36 on Forestry; (v) OP/BP 4.10 on Indigenous Peoples ( IP); (vi)
OP/BP 7.50 on International Waterways; and (vii) OPN 11.03 on Cultural Property. With regard to OP 4.12 and
OP 4.10, although a Resettlement Policy Framework and an Indigenous Peoples Policy Framework were
developed, the Bank overestimated the borrower's capacity to put these into effect and translate them into
resettlement action plans.

More broadly, some risks were identified and mitigation measures were developed. However, the Bank did not
fully appreciate the complexity of the project context related to land access and customary rights, although IEG
accepts that the land history in Kenya in both forest and farming areas is immensely complex with ramifications
that would be difficult to predict. Nevertheless, the preparation team did not sufficiently consider the policy scope
of the forest component and the limited mandate of the implementing agency. This lead to promises beyond what
the project design could realistically address. This led in turn to the implementation difficulties and the subsequent
request for investigation by the Bank's Inspection Panel.

According to the Inspection Panel report (p. 59), “The livelihood restoration measures attempted to play the role of
fulfilling some of the requirements of a duly designed and implemented resettlement mitigation effort resulting from
a restriction of access to resources. While the beneficiaries obviously appreciated these small projects, they were
not part of a broader strategy on how to manage forest people and conflicts that may arise, or to protect customary
rights”.

The original results framework, though relevant to the original PDO, included indicators that arguably could not be
sufficiently influenced by the project itself. Many indicators lacked baseline values, although the Project Appraisal
Document had recorded that while a baseline survey was indeed carried out, many of the project indicators did not
have a baseline value.

The evaluation design was weak, reflecting limited specification of data needs for an ex-post cost-benefit analysis.
Indicators for improved resource management were also weak and it was not clear how "improved management"
was to be measured.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The Bank task team was generally proactive with regard to supervision. An early MTR carried out in March
2010 assessed the causes of delays, identified the remedies and recommended the restructuring. Though the
2011 project restructuring amended project activities and outcomes so that they were more within the capacity of
the implementing agencies to deliver, complaints were raised by affected people, which in turn led to a request to
the Inspection Panel.

In early 2012, the project team and Bank management worked internally with the Operations Policy and Country
Services (OPCS) department of the Bank to prepare a dispute resolution approach complementing the local
project-level grievance redress mechanism (GRM) led by KFS) to support resolution of community concerns. The
Bank team pro-actively addressed enquiries and complaint letters and carried out fact-finding missions. However,
in January 2013, the Inspection Panel of the World Bank received a request for inspection sent by individuals from
Sengweri communities (see also Safeguards section 11a).

The Inspection Panel noted that, while the project had provided training to some NRMP staff in Participatory
Forest Management and safeguard policies related to VMGs, the Panel was of the view that Management had not
sufficiently identified the magnitude of what was required to make such a paradigm shift during appraisal.
Although the inspection panel report dated May 22, 2014 (chapter 4 p. 60) noted that, “The Panel also recognizes
and appreciates Management’s proactive stance towards the forceful evictions that are taking place after the
closure of the Project, encapsulated in the Bank President’s statement that the World Bank is not a “bystander.”

Field missions averaged one every 10 weeks, better than the usual 6 months for most projects. The number of
staff involved in missions ranged from 4 to 11 depending on the borrower’s evolving needs. Staff specialties were
consistent and relevant with the requirements. Aide Memoirs documented events and recommendations with
clarity and substance.

The Bank team was also cognizant of the unused funds and pro-actively cancelled these prior to project closing.
According to the management comments, the cancelled portion was retained under IDA support to the
government in the water and climate resilience project. The irrigation infrastructure designs developed by NRM
were then implemented by the left over funds in the second project.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

    The Government of Kenya (GoK) remained committed to the project during the project period. GoK
    institutions participated in the project design, implementation, supervision and offered implementation
    support, undertaking specific studies, annual performance reviews, auditing and reporting. The Government
    set up project implementation structures such as the Project Steering Committee (PSC), the Project
    Coordination Office (PCO), AC and NPCC to facilitate project implementation and provided sectoral staff at
    each of these levels. However, there were shortcomings with respect to appointing the required personnel for
    the development of the new activities.

    The government developed appropriate sectoral policies such as the Water Act 2002 and the Forests Act
    2005). However, due to initial implementation delays partly attributable to government and insufficient support
    to the reform agenda as well as the original ambitious targets, the design had to be adjusted at restructuring
    taking account of the realities of the operational environment and the changes in assumptions originally used.


    Implementation was also affected by bottlenecks at Treasury in channeling Project funds to the implementing
    agencies -- a problem facing many Bank financed projects in Kenya.

    Although government coordinated with other stakeholders such as, internally, the Ministry of Agriculture,
    CBOs and NGOs, to improve land use and management practices, there were shortfalls in its commitment to
    adhere to the resettlement agreement with the Bank which became more apparent after project closure ( ICR
    p. 24 &25 para 92). ).


   Government Performance Rating                              Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

    WRMA,, NIB and KFS implemented the project engaging the local communities through registered WRUAs,
    Irrigation Water User Association (IWUAs) and CFAs. Protocols, operational manuals, management
    agreements, and MOUs, etc. were developed for resources management including public irrigation schemes,
    watersheds and forests.

    WRMA and NIB met the revised targets on: (i) increasing revenues or fees collected from water users and (ii)
    strengthening their capacity to monitor and control. However, they could not incorporate and maintain the
    necessary staff for performing the additional project functions over and above those that fell under their
    routine responsibilities. This delayed overall progress significantly. There was often lack of continuity of
    project personnel in key positions, contributing to delays in implementation. During the 2011 restructuring,
    with a moderately unsatisfactory performance rating, indicators and targets had to be adjusted downwards to
    align with the limited capacity to deliver. According to the Implementation Status Reports, performance
    improved after restructuring, but absorption issues persisted leading to cancellation of project funds despite a
    substantial rise in disbursement in the last year.

  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The design followed a two-tier monitoring approach. The Geographic Information System (GIS) laboratory
   situated at the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI) tracked the overall performance, and accountability
   mechanisms such as score cards and social audits tracked performance at the community level. The centralized,
   comprehensive Management Information System (MIS) housed at the central Kenyan Soils Survey (KSS)
   supported multiple natural resources related activities and was not exclusive to the Project. It also proposed a
   public awareness and communication program to reinforce stakeholder participation.

   The original institutional arrangement involving multiple institutions was problematic. It was rectified only at MTR
   and a new more modest design was put in place at the time of the 2011 restructuring. The simplified project
   results chain was aligned with the revised PDO and focussed on indicators that were within the sphere of project
   influence, with more reasonable targets achievable within the timeframe and budget. In addition, the indicators in
   the results framework were also amended to better monitor progress toward PDO achievement.
   As noted, there were weaknesses in indicators for measuring the improvement in water and forestry resource
   management.

b. M&E Implementation:

   M&E implementation was initially stalled due to delay in establishing the M&E system and difficulties in
   implementation by multiple institutions. There were also inconclusive discussions between the Project
   Coordination Office (PCO) and the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI.

   With completion of the mid-term review (MTR) mission, a project-specific M&E system was developed and
   operated at the Project Coordination Office (PCO) level and implementing agency (IA) level. PCO acted as the
   hub to the IAs that had M&E functions. The IA had a module and a data transfer protocol for communicating with
   the PCO. The system allowed for linking each step in the results chain, producing regular reports every quarter,
   half year and annually. However, information compiled for the second tier monitoring of impacts on resources and
   communities was inadequate and at times M&E staffing at the IAs was deficient. Regular upgrades added
   geo-referenced CDD schemes and reporting of social and environmental safeguards. Although the recalibrated
   M&E system was utilized by the client to report on project targets, it lagged in quantifying social and
   environmental impacts.

c. M&E Utilization:

   M&E was utilized effectively for reporting on the project results framework since the 2011 restructuring. The
   collected data was used in decision making enabling implementers to gain insight into outputs from individual
   project activities and to address implementation challenges. The M&E reports were also used at the MTR and for
   informing the restructuring of the subject Project (NRMP). The MIS enabled reporting on the project activities and
   outputs and information sharing between the PCO and the implementing institutions.
M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   At appraisal the project triggered seven safeguard policies and developed measures as required by these
   policies. The triggered policies were: (i) OP/BP 4.01 on environment assessment; (ii) OP/BP 4.12 on Involuntary
   Resettlement; (iii) OP/BP 4.04 on Natural Resources; (iv) OP/BP 4.36 on Forestry; (v) OP/BP 4.10 on Indigenous
   Peoples ( IP); (vi) OP/BP 7.50 on International Waterways; and (vii) OPN 11.03 on Cultural Property. The ICR
   reported compliance with these seven safeguard policies.

   Environment:
   The project was classified Category B and was consistent with the Bank’s Safeguards Policy on Environmental
   Assessment OP/BP 4.01. An Environmental assessment was carried out as part of project preparation. An
   Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF) was developed and disclosed in-country and at the
   Bank’s Information Center in Washington D.C. on January 10, 2007. Annual environmental audits for the NRMP
   activities were conducted providing qualitative and quantitative evidence on the environmental status of the
   various interventions.

   Social:
   The Project triggered OP 4.12 and OP 4.10 as part of project preparation and a Resettlement Policy Framework
   (RPF) and Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework ( IPPF) were prepared. The ambitious nature of the project
   design resulted in additional safeguard concerns early in the project. A Process Framework (PF) was approved
   after wide consultations. It addressed customary rights of forest dependent populations and established a
   grievance mechanism.

   The IPPF, which was approved by the Bank, introduced controversial elements, some that appear unrealistic,
   such as: (i) hastening the provision of titles for land occupied and used by communities in the project areas. This
   included support for necessary steps such as a land survey, demarcation and registration of titles; and, (ii)
   offering assistance within the land restitution process to vulnerable and marginalized population to claim all lands
   over which they had lost control between 1895 and 2002 ( p.12 ICR). These elements raised unrealistic
   expectations contributing to unresolved conflicts between sections of some communities and the GoK.

   During the initial three years, GoK and the Bank pro-actively worked to build trust so that progress could be made
   on poverty alleviation, community resource rights, and conservation in a way that satisfied the majority of
   stakeholders. Both government and the Bank reacted promptly to complaints as they came to their attention and
   carried out field supervision and verifications. The Bank strongly advised Government to implement solutions
   consistent with project safeguard frameworks and international best practices on social and environment
   safeguards. At the time of the Project restructuring in 2011, a change in safeguards category was not considered
   necessary, because the process of setting up institutional structures to address these issues under the new
   Constitution was in progress, as was the development of the NRMP Process Framework which included the
   grievance redress mechanism which was used by the indigenous communities and Kenya Forest Service
   (Section 2.4 p. 13 ICR)

   In early 2012, the project team and Bank management worked internally with Operations Policy and Country
   Services department of the Bank to prepare a dispute resolution approach (complementing the local project-level
   grievance redress mechanism (GRM) led by KFS) to support resolution of community concerns. This was
   followed through with an independent high-level regional mediator to support dialogue between KFS and
   community groups through a collaborative problem-solving process.

   However, in January 2013 the Inspection Panel of the World Bank received a request for inspection sent by
   individuals from Sengwer communities who “live and represent others who live” in four areas of the Cherangani
   Hills, claiming that they had suffered harm as a result of the Bank’s “failure and omissions” in the project for
   incidents between 2007 and 2011. After reviewing the issues raised, Bank Management at that time concluded
   that any harm that may have stemmed from the incidents cited in the request was not caused or aggravated by
   the project, nor had the project supported these incidents. Management stated that in spite of the difficult
   operating environment which included complex and sensitive legacy issues, the Bank had complied with the
   policies and procedures applicable to the matters raised in the request. The Panel stated in its initial Report and
    Recommendation dated May 29, 2013 that there were conflicting assertions and differing views on issues of
    harm and compliance with policies and procedures raised in the request for inspection, in the Management
    response, in the Panel’s meetings with affected people, and with Bank staff. Hence, the Panel recommended an
    investigation, which was to be concluded in early 2014. (Section 2.4. p.12 &13 ICR).

    According to the Inspection Panel report dated May 22, 2014 (Chapter 4 p. 60) “The Panel acknowledges that the
    Project took place in the context of a very difficult political reality stemming from post-election violence that
    resulted in the displacement of hundreds of thousands of people, complex politics of ethnic struggles, as well as
    land ownership conflicts that have deep historical roots. It is the Panel’s firm view that, despite the complexities of
    the issues it reviewed in this case and the challenges involved, the World Bank continues to be best equipped in
    terms of expertise, mandate and resources to support the GoK in resolving these issues, in the interest of
    sustainable development, the natural environment, and the protection of vulnerable communities, including
    Indigenous Peoples”. However, as noted under Quality at Entry above, the Inspection Panel also noted that,
    while the project had provided training to some NRMP staff in Participatory Forest Management and safeguard
    policies related to VMGs, the Panel was of the view that Management had not sufficiently identified the
    magnitude of what was required to make such a paradigm shift during appraisal.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
    Financial Management:
    WRMA, NIB and KFS included designated accountants to serve the project despite the project’s payment
    processes being fully mainstreamed into the financial management systems of the implementing agencies and
    GoK. The PCO at the MoWI coordinated project implementation for the three agencies. Financial procedures for
    issuing project funds by the World Bank were followed and were well documented. The government received the
    funds and released them to the IAs through their line Ministries. Acceptable accounting, financial reporting, and
    auditing arrangements are reported in the ICR to have been maintained throughout the project duration. The
    estimated budgetary provisions for the project were adequate. Compliance with all legal covenants related to
    financial management was maintained. Annual financial audit was carried out by the Kenya National Audit Office.
    All quarterly IFRs and audit reports were submitted to and reviewed by the Bank as required by the relevant
    Financing and Grant Agreements. There were no outstanding audit issues at project closure.

    Procurement:
    Procurement of goods, civil works and employment of consultants adhered to the “World Bank Procurement and
    Consultants Guidelines for the selection and employment of Consultants (May 2004),” and the Government of
    Kenya “Public Procurement and Disposal Act, 2005”. All requirements as stipulated in the Financing Agreement
    were fully followed through. However, there were delays in procurement processes for some of the key project
    activities due to internal slow processing of key procurement-related activities by the IAs and in obtaining the no
    objection from the Bank.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
    A substantial decline in malaria due to reduced water stagnation following irrigation rehabilitation works was
    reported.. The Mutithi Health Centre, serving about 1,500 farming households in Mwea, reported a decline in
    clinically reported cases from a monthly average of 166 in 2010 to 2 in 2011 and 0 in 2012 and 2013 ( ICR p.25).

d. Other:
NONE


12. Ratings:                              ICR                 IEG Review                      Reason for
                                                                                       Disagreement/Comments
                    Outcome: Moderately                  Moderately
                             Satisfactory                Satisfactory
         Risk to Development Moderate                    Significant            Unresolved land access and customary
                    Outcome:                                                    rights, especially on forest lands,
                                                                                remains a serious risk to the
                                                                                development outcome. (Section 7)
          Bank Performance: Moderately                   Moderately
                             Satisfactory                Satisfactory
      Borrower Performance : Moderately                  Moderately             Moderately unsatisfactory performance
                             Satisfactory                Unsatisfactory         of the government and implementing
                                                                                agency (Section 9a&b). In particular,
                                                                                  resettlement issues, periods of slow
                                                                                  disbursement, and staffing issues.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    Based partly on the ICR, the following are the three most important lessons:

    1. A simple and limited project design that considers institutional capacity and promotes active stakeholder
    participation is especially appropriate for complex natural resource situations where there is potential for land
    rights conflict. Sufficient time, budgetary needs and staff capacity are critical factors during preparation to
    ensure that all the project elements are coordinated. In this case the Project design was too broad and
    ambitious to be implemented within the planned duration partly because it addressed multiple reforms across
    several implementing agencies that had insufficient capacity and staff retention.

    2. In-depth understanding of the political context and other historical evidence is critical in designing
    community-based natural resource management initiatives . In this case, there was insufficient appreciation at
    the design stage of the political and historical context of the land issue.

    3. Sustainable natural resource management actions should consider : (i) incentives for resource users to
    avoid free-rider behavior; (ii) secure rights to resources for local communities ; (iii) strong environmental and
    socio-economic monitoring; and, (iv) effective coordination among stakeholders since changes in upstream
    watersheds affect downstream users and this can drive conflict .

    The ICR contains a number of other useful lessons, some more specific to Kenya.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No

Why? There are important questions about the impact evidence and the efficiency estimates and potential lessons
for project design in a land conflict situation.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:



    The ICR was variable in quality but on balance is rated Satisfactory. It is largely consistent with OPCS guidelines.
    It provides sound analysis and summary of project preparation and implementation including an extensive report
    of project investments and problems faced. The section on lessons learnt is well done. Results reporting follows a
    causal chain, linking project preparation with implementation and completion. Stakeholders are well defined and
    the ICR reports their participation in various segments of the project cycle. The ICR records poverty, gender and
    social elements addressed by the Project. Annex 5 of the ICR includes the Borrower ICR.
    However, there were weaknesses although some can be partly attributed to weak available data. Outcome
    evidence is not well articulated. The ICR did not sufficiently answer: (i) how water and forest management by
    agencies, farmer groups, and farmers improved due to the project activities; (ii) what measurements were taken
    to determine the claimed rice yield increases; and (iii) what the improved forest management did for downstream
    hydrology or, more broadly, for incomes. Too much focus is given on what means were provided and not enough
    on the ends. The selected (it appears not randomly) subproject cases were of some anecdotal value but only a
    few allowed deduction of a profit figure or an environmental impact quantification.
    A key source of evidence on the benefits of SRI rice at Mwea, published August 2013, nearly a year before the
    ICR seems not to have been used, or if it was used generically, was not referred to. Once obtained, this
    reference filled an important gap in the evidence on irrigation benefits.
    On safeguards, the ICR reports adequately on fiduciary compliance but the project triggers seven out of ten other
    safeguard policies, yet the ICR documents the compliance measures only for three ( OP 4.01, OP 4.10 and OP
    4.12).
    The ICR offers a well-considered substantial lessons section, some of which are more specific to Kenya. Some of
    the lessons are well articulated and of value for other similar projects with potential land conflict.
    The ICR contains a few editing errors: (i) a discrepancy between figures reported in the component costs in the
    main text and Annex 1 and also within the annex itself. Annex 1 reports US$ 81.60 million as the actual financing
    amount when the actual project cost is only US$ 61.9 million (the true actual financing appears to be US$56.9
    million based on project portal data); (ii) it misses a number of full titles of abbreviations ( eg: NPCC , AC in
    Section E.2 p.85).
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
