                                                                    100227

            International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                     International Development Association




                        PROGRESS REPORT
              TO THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
      ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF MANAGEMENT'S ACTION PLAN
IN RESPONSE TO THE INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT ON THE




                            KENYA
           NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                    (IDA Credit No. 42770-KE)




                             September 17, 2015




                                      i
                            Abbreviation and Acronyms


ESF     Environmental and Social Framework
FCPF    Forest Carbon Partnership Facility
FY      Fiscal Year
GoK     Government of Kenya
Ha      Hectare
IFPO    Indigenous Forest Peoples’ Organization
IP      Indigenous People
IPN     Inspection Panel
IPPF    Indigenous People Planning Framework
KEFRI   Kenya Forest Research Institute
KFS     Kenya Forest Service
NGO     Nongovernmental Organization
NRM     Natural Resource Management
OP      Operational Policy
PDO     Project Development Objective
REDD+   Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation
WB      World Bank




                                         ii
Contents
Introduction ................................................................................................................................................... 1
Project Summary ........................................................................................................................................... 1
Management Action Plan .............................................................................................................................. 2
Progress Report ............................................................................................................................................. 3
Next Steps ..................................................................................................................................................... 5


Figures
Figure 1. Kenya NRM Project Map .............................................................................................................. 7
Figure 2. Photographs from the Colloquium ................................................................................................ 8


Annexes
Annex 1. Integrated Matrix of Key Issues and Inputs from the National Forum for Indigenous Forest
         Communities (held in Nakuru) and the Colloquium (held in Eldoret)
Annex 2. Lessons Learned from Kenya Natural Resources Management Project – A Case Study




                                                                               iii
Introduction

1.      On January 30, 2013, the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection, IPN Request RQ
13/02 (hereafter referred to as “the Request”), concerning the Kenya Natural Resource Management
Project (NRMP), financed by IDA credit 42770-KE. The Request for Inspection was submitted by
individuals from Sengwer communities who live, and represent other members who live, in four areas of
the Cherangany Hills in the western highlands of Kenya, namely the Kapolet Forest (in Trans-Nzoia
County), Talau and Kaipos (in West Pokot County), and Embobut Forest (in Marakwet County) (hereafter
referred to as the “Requesters”).

2.      The Executive Directors and the President of IDA were notified by the Panel of receipt of the
Request. Management responded to the claims in the Request on March 15, 2013. In its Eligibility Report
to the Board, the Panel found the Request eligible, and recommended that the Executive Directors
authorize an investigation. The investigation was authorized by the Executive Directors on June 7, 2013.

3.       On June 28, 2013 the Panel received a second Request submitted by four representatives of the
Cherangany Indigenous Peoples Community on behalf of people living in the Cherangany Hills. The
Board approved the Panel’s proposal to process the second Request jointly with the first one and, if deemed
eligible, to address the claims presented in this additional Request in the context of the already approved
investigation. The Requesters claimed that they had been forcibly evicted from their lands within the
forests as a result of the Project, and that there had been a lack of recognition and protection of their
customary rights during Project implementation.

4.      On May 22, 2014, the Panel issued its Investigation Report outlining its findings. The Panel
determined that no evictions were supported by the NRMP, but more attention should have been given
from the outset to identify risks for affected people and adequately mitigate such risks as required by Bank
policies on Environmental Assessment, Project Appraisal, Indigenous Peoples, and Involuntary
Resettlement. The Panel also found an inadequate institutional analysis of the implementing agency, the
Kenya Forest Service (KFS). The Panel found that Management responded repeatedly when issues did
arise, succeeded in securing a moratorium on evictions and firmly brought to the attention of the
Government of Kenya (GoK) instances of non-compliance with social safeguard obligations during Project
implementation.

5.      On July 7, 2014, Management submitted its Response to the Inspection Panel’s Investigation
Report for consideration by the Executive Directors. The Investigation Report (INSP/R2014-0001) and
the Management Report and Recommendation (IDA/R2014-0259) were discussed by the Board on
September 30, 2014. The Board approved the proposed Management Action Plan (hereafter referred to as
the Action Plan), as summarized below, and Management was requested to report back on its
implementation within 6 to 12 months’ time. This report is intended to provide a summary of the progress
on the implementation of the Action Plan.

Project Summary

6.       An IDA credit (US$68.5 million equivalent) for the Kenya NRM Project was approved by the
Board of Executive Directors in March 2007. The Project’s development objective was to improve the
management of water and forest resources in selected districts (now counties). The Project included four
components: Water Resource Management and Irrigation (US$44.5 million), Management of Forest
Resources (US$22.4 million), Livelihood Investments in the Upper Tana Catchment (US$6.2 million),
and Management and M&E (US$4.9 million). In June 2011, the Board approved Management’s proposal
to restructure the Project. The restructuring revised and simplified the Project Development Objectives


                                                     1
(PDO), reallocated 21 percent of Project funds and formalized the inclusion of the Cherangany Hills into
the Project area. The Project closed on June 30, 2013.

7.       From the date of Board approval, the Project was operating in a very challenging environment,
given the long history of tension on land and resource rights, a situation that was exacerbated by the ethnic
unrest that followed the 2007 elections. Nevertheless, by the time the Project closed in 2013, the NRMP
had delivered good results with over 145,000 rural people benefitting from irrigation works or through
community-driven micro-projects; and 320,000 hectares of forest area brought under approved forest
management plans (which exceeded the Project’s development objectives). The achievements also
included the establishment of 172 community-user groups with 50.5 percent women beneficiaries; and
713 livelihood based micro-projects supported. Other Project results included 7,124 ha of new area brought
under forest cover, and 9,500 ha of land brought under irrigation in Project intervention areas.

Implementation of the Management Action Plan

8.       In response to the issues raised in the Panel Report, Management proposed an Action Plan which
was consulted upon with the Requesters from both Requests through: (i) a video conference on June 11,
2014, attended by staff in the Nairobi and Washington offices; and (ii) a meeting with the Bank-team in
Nairobi on June 30, 2014. Management identified and proposed actions best suited to address the Panel’s
findings considering that the NRMP had closed in June 2013, Government efforts to review and address
related land issues were underway and further Bank engagement in Kenya’s forest sector warranted an in-
depth review of the issues that affected the NRMP. The country team also remained engaged in the
dialogue with the GoK about the broader issues of tenure and access to forests, and provided advice to the
GoK. In light of this, Management committed to undertake the following actions:

    A. Hold a Colloquium to Promote Dialogue and Cooperation on Land and Legacy Issues among
    Forest Stakeholders. The Action Plan proposed the Colloquium to include members of the affected
    communities (possibly including the anonymous Requesters); Government agencies such as the KFS
    and the National Land Commission; nongovernmental organizations (NGOs); the World Bank and
    other Development Partners active in the forest sector. Also, the Colloquium was to build on the series
    of workshops and dialogues already held on land and legacy issues. Furthermore, the Colloquium
    would also allow the Cherangany-Sengwer stakeholders, including the Requesters, to articulate their
    proposals for working with the GoK in identifying a path forward to resolve the legacy land issues
    that affect the Cherangany-Sengwer community; and to continue to discuss the need for implementing
    participatory models of forest management among Cherangany-Sengwer in line with the Forest Act
    (i.e., the participatory forest management approach piloted by the Ogiek indigenous community in Mt.
    Elgon, which is another NRMP intervention area). As such, the Colloquium was to have discrete
    sessions on key topics including:
        •   Global best practices in (i) Developing process frameworks for customary rights, (ii)
            Resettlement, (iii) Indigenous Peoples Plans (i.e., Vulnerable and Marginalized Group Plans
            in NRMP);
        •   Global best practices in applying participatory forest management;
        •   Global best practices in community driven development; and
        •   Global best practices on mechanisms for resolving land and legacy issues.

    B. Provide Technical Assistance on Social Safeguards in Kenya to Indigenous Communities and
    the GoK. This work had been initiated based on the fact that land and legacy issues are present
    throughout the Bank-financed portfolio in Kenya. So far three national workshops open to all

                                                     2
    indigenous groups, including the Cherangany-Sengwer, who participated, were held to explain in
    detail how Bank social safeguards policies are applied in Bank-financed operations. Management has
    explored ways to expand this activity to include Government agencies.

Progress Report on the Action Plan

        Colloquium

9.       The preparation of the Colloquium was a highly inclusive process and the Bank team actively
engaged with key stakeholders. An extensive set of consultations were organized with forest-dependent
indigenous communities, Government institutions at national and county levels, Development Partners,
academia and research, civil society, and the private sector. These consultations allowed the Bank team to
collect inputs and comprehensive feedback to develop and focus the Colloquium’s objectives, agenda and
list of participants.

10.     A National Forum for Forest Dependent Communities preceded the Colloquium. On January
18-21, 2015, the Kenyan Ministry of Water, Environment and Natural Resources (now Ministry of
Environment and Natural Resources), in collaboration with the World Bank, organized a National Forum
for Forest Dependent Communities in Nakuru. This event was attended by over 200 people, with the
overwhelmingly majority coming from indigenous forest communities all over the country and including
the Cherangany-Sengwer and Ogiek people from the Cherangany Hill areas. The Forum helped to build
trust between the GoK and the indigenous forest dependent communities, and also established a
collaborative platform between the communities and the GoK to continue the dialogue. At this Forum the
indigenous forest communities groups prepared individual memoranda of issues and actions which they
presented to the GoK for action.

11.      The Colloquium on Deepening Dialogue with Stakeholders in the Forest Sector was held in
Eldoret on March 3-6, 2015 with more than 300 participants attending the event. The event was
hosted by the Ministry of Environment, Water and Natural Resources and the World Bank, with
participation from the communities; Government representatives at the County and National levels;
Independent National Commissions such as the National Land Commission, the Commission of Revenue
Allocation, and the Cohesion and Integration Commission; private sector; Development Partners;
international and Kenyan CSOs/NGOs; research institutes; international experts and media. The
Colloquium included more than 170 community members representing the Cherangany-Sengwer (from
Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot, and Trans Nzoia), Ogiek, Yaaku, Ilchamus, Samburu, Maasai (Narok),
Aweer, Kaya (Mtswakara, Malakote, Sanye, Rabai), and Endorois. On the day preceding the Colloquium,
March 3, 2015, a closed meeting of forest-dependent communities was held, which allowed communities
to select their representatives and speakers, and to refine and agree on concrete positions including the
memoranda from the January National Forum to be presented to the GoK.

12.     Discussions during the Colloquium were honest and constructive. The event was opened by
the Cabinet Secretary for Environment, Water and Natural Resources, who underlined the government’s
commitment to balance the conservation of forest resources and the rights of all citizens, including forest-
dependent communities. The Kenya Country Director, who was also present during the first day session,
emphasized, among others, the importance of trust and dialogue among stakeholders.

13.      The four-day event covered a range of issues, including participatory forest and natural resource
management; benefit sharing; grievance and dispute handling mechanisms; mechanisms for resolving land
issues affecting forest communities; process frameworks for customary rights; and resettlement planning.
International and global experiences were presented by experts from China, Ghana, Tanzania and Mexico,
which participants freely discussed. They greatly appreciated the World Bank’s role in organizing the

                                                     3
Colloquium, which they referred to as historical. The spokesperson for the forest-dependent communities
said: “Colloquium was a historic event that had brought all the communities together with the government
and other stakeholders to find solutions to internal conflicts that had persisted for many decades over
conservation of forests and the livelihoods of the communities.”

14.     The Colloquium took a forward-looking approach. The Colloquium recognized the importance
of defining a road map and concrete actions for implementation of the recommendations of the National
Forum held in Nakuru in January 2015. A process for sustaining dialogue and for coordinating and
monitoring implementation was recommended, including the creation of a cross-sectoral steering
committee comprising Government and community representatives. Preparation of a detailed draft matrix
of follow-up actions was initiated and finalized (see Annex 1). The Bank expressed its commitment to
supporting the GoK in continuing the dialogue in collaboration with other Development Partners.

15.     The Colloquium created a new platform for collaboration and dialogue between the GoK
and the Indigenous forest-dependent communities. Following the Colloquium, an Indigenous Forest
Peoples’ Organization (IFPO) was formed, and a draft constitution is awaiting registration at the Registrar-
General’s Department. The Colloquium confirmed the GoK commitment to conservation of forest
resources while ensuring the rights of indigenous forest-dependent communities to these resources. The
Principal Secretary in the Ministry of Environment, Water and Natural Resources, said: “We have engaged
in frank and open discussion during these last three days and agreed to continue consultations on the
complex issues of participatory management of the forest sector. The government has a responsibility and
is committed to resolve the issues we have heard in this forum.”

16.      Communities pledged readiness for the policy dialogue on sustainable community forest
management and indigenous peoples’ issues. The event increased awareness of international best
practice in community forest management among all participants. The Chairman of the Indigenous Forest
Peoples’ Representative Committee addressed the Colloquium participants at the end of the event, stating
that “the community is and will be ready to dialogue on the issues identified. Our shared vision is that of
leading fulfilled lives, a stable economy and maintaining enriched culture. We shall contribute our rich
knowledge towards restoring the lost glory of our forests.”

        Social Safeguards Support

17.      On March 19-21, 2014, the Bank organized a dedicated training in Nakuru on social
safeguard policies for vulnerable and marginalized group communities, with 30 community
members attending. The Bank’s social development team will continue to provide support to projects to
ensure complete coverage of the Bank portfolio on social safeguards. Capacity building training sessions
for clients and Bank staff have been conducted to ensure and promote compliance with the Bank policies.

18.     Kenya has been included in the series of consultations to prepare the new World Bank
Environmental and Social Framework (ESF), including on specific issues under the ESF. A dedicated
workshop on Indigenous People issues was held on February 27, 2015 and was attended by 42 people,
including representatives from the Sengwer community. Kenya will participate in the upcoming third
round of consultations on the new ESF and every attempt will be made to ensure a broad-based
participation by all key stakeholder groups.

19.     Other learning events have also been organized. At the June 16-18, 2015 meeting in Nairobi of
the Bank’s Africa Region External Communications department, the Kenya NRMP was presented as a
case study in a discussion on Borrower and World Bank compliance mechanisms. The presentation
covered the Kenya NRMP, its achievements, challenges with regard to safeguards due diligence, the
ensuing Inspection Panel Investigation and Management decisions and Action Plan. Other topics included

                                                     4
the series of engagement activities between stakeholders, especially the January 2015 National Forum
organized by the GoK for Indigenous Forest Communities and the March 2015 Colloquium as well as the
planned post-Colloquium activities towards deepening the dialogue, in particular between the GoK and
the IFPO.

20.      Other opportunities were sought to engage with vulnerable groups. On August 19–21, 2015
the executive leadership of the IFPO was among several Indigenous Peoples and CSOs from about 15
African countries who participated at the World Bank organized workshop under the proposed Forest
Carbon Partnership Facility (FCPF)-supported Capacity Building Project on REDD+ for Indigenous
Peoples, Southern CSOs and Local Communities. The Project seeks to build the capacity of targeted forest-
dependent peoples and civil society organizations in the Africa region by enhancing their knowledge and
understanding of REDD+, thereby allowing them to increase their participation in the REDD+ processes
at the national level.

    Structured learning event

21.      On September 3, 2015, the Bank team held a structured learning event to discuss: (i) lessons
learned from the preparation and implementation of the Kenya NRM Project; (ii) the Inspection Panel case
and the Bank’s follow up actions, and (iii) resources available to Bank staff for dealing with legacy issues,
particularly land tenure issues. The event targeted NRM practitioners, social and environmental safeguards
specialists and other staff working on projects with land tenure issues. The learning event was part of a
series on Lessons Learned from Inspection Panel cases. The Kenya NRM Project case study will be
included in the Bank’s regular training program for staff (see Annex 2).

    Conclusion

22.      With the successful implementation of the dedicated safeguards training and the Colloquium, the
Action Plan in response to the Panel’s Investigation Report is completed and no further reporting is
required. The training workshop on social safeguard policies for vulnerable and marginalized group
communities has been successfully concluded with 30 community members attending. The Colloquium
provided an important and unique opportunity for the engagement of indigenous forest-dependent
communities with the Kenya Forest Service and other relevant Government agencies, private sector, civil
society, research and academia and Development partners.



Other Initiatives to Deepen Dialogue among Key Stakeholders in the NRM Sector

23.     Management is working closely with the GoK in pursuing a number of important initiatives to
engage the GoK and Development Partners, and to further promote the dialogue between the GoK and
indigenous forest-dependent communities, including the Cherangany-Sengwer. These activities include:
    •       The Bank will continue coordination and facilitation of meetings of the Donors’ Forest Group
            in Nairobi. To date, two meetings have been held, on April 29 and August 26, 2015, at the
            Embassy of Finland. The Bank was represented at both meetings.
    •       From September 26 to October 3, 2015, the Bank coordinated a knowledge and sharing
            exchange visit of the Kenya National Land Commission to Ghana to be hosted by the Ghana
            Lands Commission Secretariat. The visit provides an opportunity to share experiences on
            managing land tenure challenges in the two countries.



                                                     5
•   The Bank will also coordinate quarterly meetings of the GoK/ Donors’ Forest Group. The last
    quarterly meeting was held at KFS in June 2015.
•   The Bank, the Center for International Forestry Research (CIFOR), and the Kenya Forestry
    Research Institute (KEFRI) discussed preparation of a study on “Transforming rights,
    responsibilities and relationships through collaborative forest governance: An evidence-
    based approach for addressing current and historical forest conservation challenges in
    Kenya.” The Bank will help in sourcing finances for the execution of the study.




                                          6
Figure 1: Kenya NRM Project Map




                                  7
Figure 2: Photographs from the Colloquium

(a) Heavily deforested landscapes used by communities for cattle grazing




(b) Colloquium was attended by over 300 participants with rich representation from the indigenous forest-dependent communities.




                                                                       8
                                     Annex 1: Integrated Matrix of Key Issues and Inputs from the
                              National Forum for Indigenous Forest Communities (held in Nakuru 1) and the
                                                     Colloquium (held in Eldoret 2)


Cross-cutting Issues
-    Community representatives were overall grateful and considered the initiative unique, historic and opportune, which they hope will be sustained
     and realize binding outcomes.
-    While broader themes emerged within and across communities, unique and specific community context should be recognized as per the
     submitted memorandum.
-    Need to agree on the name/term to be used in describing the relevant communities – the discussion on 3rd March 2015 at Starbucks hotel, Eldoret
     narrowed down to three possible names, namely: Indigenous Forest Peoples, Indigenous Peoples, Minority and Indigenous Peoples, with
     majority of those present endorsing the name Indigenous Forest Peoples (IFPs). 3
-    Recognition, consideration and conclusion of existing Court cases, rulings and Taskforce and Commission reports related to Indigenous
     Peoples’ claims. 4
-    The Constitution provisions on marginalized communities, i.e., articles 56 and 100 should inform subsequent policy legislation and programmes
     targeting Indigenous Forest Communities/Indigenous Peoples, including those related to affirmative action.
-    Clarion call for recognition of the relevant Indigenous communities 5 as distinct ethnic groups with a dedicated code under the National Census.
-    Call for a Comprehensive Indigenous Peoples policy and programme to respond to the issues raised.




1
  Held at Hotel Cathay, Nakuru, January 18th – 21st 2015.
2
  Held at Boma Inn, Eldoret, March 3rd – 6th 2015.
3
  Constitution of Kenya, 2010, art. 260; Definition of marginalized communities: traditional, indigenous community, e.g., pastoral, nomadic and hunter gatherers.
4
  Ogiek of Mau, Ilchamus Taskforce on Mathenge weed, Endorois Taskforce on dispossession of Mochongoi, Mau Taskforce.
5
  Yiaku, Ilchamus and Sengwer.
                                                                               9
                                                                                                                        Lead         Action by, Institutions,
Thematic Issues                   Specific issues             Recommendation                         Timelines          Agency       Agency, Ministry
                                                              •   Restitution and compensation                          NLC
                                  Dispossession,              •   Settlement of historical land
                                  Displacement 7/eviction/        claims 8 9
                                  Lack of/inadequate          •   Indigenous Peoples to be
                                                                                                                                     ME&NR, NLC, MoL,
                                  compensation                    returned back to their ancestral   3 years
                                                                                                                                     KNHRC, AG, CJ, CAJ
                                                                  land 10
                                  Ogiek Squatters &           •   Emergency humanitarian
                                  landless by the roads           response, i.e., stop-gap
                                                                  measure 11
To have clarity and security of
                                                              •   Access to relevant land                               NLC
Indigenous Peoples’ Land
                                  Lack of demarcation and         records, 12 settlement of
tenure, including forest
                                  titling                         boundaries disputes
ownership 6                                                                                          1 year                          MoL, NLC
                                                              •   Issuance of titles 13
                                  Unfulfilled promises        •   Facilitate recognition of forest
                                                                  ownership
                                  Contested resettlement                                                                MoWNR
                                                              •   To be audited and rectified        1 year                          MoL, NLC
                                  and relocation efforts 14
                                                              •   Facilitate recognition of forest
                                  Lack of recognition of          ownership                                             MoWNR
                                                                                                     1 month                         MoL, NLC
                                  forest ownership            •   Release and update of Ogiek
                                                                  register 15


6
  Affected counties, Nakuru, Kericho, Baringo, Nandi, Uasin Gishu, Narok, Nakuru, e.g., Mt. Eburu (Oloidonyio o-puru), fenced –in and landless; Transzoia,
Elgeyio Marakwet, Laikipia.
7
  Ichamus, dispossession of Perkerra Irrigation Scheme, Baringo County.
8
  Constitution of Kenya, 2010 art.67e on National land Commission.
9
  National Land Policy Sessional no. 3 2009 - Land Issues Requiring Special Intervention art. 3.6.
10
   Ogiek of Mau, Ogiek Elgeyo Marakwet.
11
   Ogiek Communities squatting by the road side in South of Elgeyio Marakwet.
12
   Yiaku of Mukokodo forest – access to Group ranch Original Map as per original title, Notice of declaration to subdivide and Surveying of the Land.
13
   Kaya’s of the Miji-kenda …”Mabwenyenye wanapata cheti milki ya ardhi na sisi hatupati”; Ilchmaus. E.g., enkapune Oloiboni.
14
   Chepyuk of Mt Elgon Ogiek; Sengwer of Embobut forest.
15
   Ogiek, Eastern Mau.
                                                                              10
                                                             •   Revocation of titles                            NLC
                                  Illegal allocation of
                                                             •   Eviction of illegal allottees
                                  Land                                                               1 year              NLC, MoL
                                                             •   Reallocation to the bona fide
                                                                 people 16
                                                             •   Recognition, promotion and
                                                                 integration of Indigenous
                                                                                                                         Museums of Kenya,
                                                                 knowledge 17
                                  Disregard of Indigenous                                                                NEMA, Ministry of
                                                             •   Documentation of Indigenous         2 years     MoWNR
                                  knowledge systems                                                                      devolution and planning
                                                                 Knowledge
                                                                                                                         (MoDP)
                                                             •   Recognition and respect for
                                                                 traditional institutions 18
                                                             •   Facilitate land-use mapping 19 &
                                                                 natural resource inventory
                                  Privileging of             •   Rights based integrated
                                  • Forest conservation          approach to conservation 20
                                      models                 •   Indigenous Peoples and
                                  • Concessionaires              communities Conserved Areas
                                  • Acceptable Shamba            (ICCA)
Recognition of forest                 system                 •   Recreation and restoration plans
dwellers/Indigenous Peoples,      • Degradation and              of Indigenous Peoples                           MoWNR
and protection of Traditional         deforestation of           landscapes
livelihoods /occupation               Indigenous forest      •   No more replacement of              3 year              MoEWNR, MoDP
                                      ecosystems through         Indigenous forests ecosystems
                                      Plantations                with plantations,
                                      establishment &        •   Facilitate development of
                                      Livelihoods                community bio-cultural
                                      improvement                protocols
                                      (Pellis)               •   Develop policy on
                                  • Encroachment of              rehabilitation and restoration of
                                      riparian land              degraded natural habitats, e.g.,
                                                                 forest ecosystems and
                                                                 protection of riparian land
                                  Disregard/stigmatization   •   Recognition and respect for
                                                                                                                         MoEWNR, NEMA,
                                  of Indigenous belief           customary law & values                          MoWNR
                                                                                                     2 years             Museums of Kenya,
                                  systems/ATR                •   Respect of community
                                                                                                                         MoDP
                                                                 protocols


16
   Ogiek of Mau Ref. Mau Ecosystem Taskforce report, Ndungu Report.
17
   Constitution of Kenya – 2010 –art. 11 and 44.
18
   Kayas, Yaku - Traditional age set leaders, Council of elders.
19
   Sacred sites, grazing, conservation and eco-tourism, human settlement.
20
   Ilchamus of Ilmukuntani and Lemaitai forests; Mt Elgon forest between Ogiek national conservation agencies.
                                                                             11
                                                              •   Facilitate sacred sites
                                                                  identification, community
                                                                  mobilization, demarcation,
                                                                  survey and gazettement
                                                              •   Respect for positive traditional
                                                                  totems related to flora and
                                                                  fauna
                                   Denied access to                                                                    Museums of Kenya,
                                                              •   Establishment of cultural          3 years   MoWNR
                                   cultural/sacred sites 21                                                            MoEWNR, MoDP
                                                                  centers and general support of
                                                                  indigenous culture
                                                              •   Enhanced recognition and
                                                                  regulation of multiple functions
                                                                  of forests, including spiritual
                                                                  value

                                                              •   Establishment of meaningful,
                                                                  sustainable and structured
                                                                  engagement framework with
                                                                  government and its agencies
                                                                  that yield practical,
                                                                  implementable and binding                    MoDP
                                                                  outcomes informed by
Ensuring robust consultation,                                     community protocol and Free,
effective representation and                                      Prior and Informed Consent                           MoDP; MoENR,
participation including timely     Lack of consultation       •   Define clear mandate, legal        3 years           Treasury, CRA, DeP-
access to relevant information -                                  nature and the relations of the                      WB, EU, Finns
decision making processes,                                        newly established Ogiek and
political representation in                                       Sengwer representation
County & national governments                                     structure to other pre-existing
including constitutional                                          governance including Council
commissions                                                       of Elders
                                                              •   Seek financial support to
                                                                  implement above challenges

                                   Poor/lack of               •   Affirmative action 22 in natural
                                                                                                                       NGEC, MoENR,
                                   representation in              resource management                          NCIC
                                                                                                     2 years           Treasury, CRA, DeP-
                                   institutions of            •   Affirmative action in political
                                                                                                                       WB, EU, Finns
                                   governance                     representation 23



21
   Ilchamus, Sengwer.
22
   Affirmative action also includes women, youth, and vulnerable groups.
23
   Informed by relevant constitutional provisions, arts. 56, 100.
                                                                              12
                                                               •   The landscape is a library of
                                   Language/illiteracy             knowledge in Indigenous
                                   barriers/access to              Peoples’ language                   5 years         NMK     Museums of Kenya
                                   information                 •   Language conservation or
                                                                   revitalization programs
                                                               •   Access to information in a
                                                                   language, form and place
                                                                   friendly to local communities                       NCIC
                                   Minority status                                                     2 years                 MoDP, NGEC
                                                               •   Establishment of a national
                                                                   political minority constituency
                                                                   for affirmative action
                                                               •   Establishment an Indigenous
                                                                   Peoples Policy/legislation with
                                                                   FPIC
                                   Highest burden of           •   Support to form CFA 24
                                   conservation borne by       •   No/Review design of CFAs 25         1 year          MoWNR   MoDP
                                   the communities             •   Consider establishment of
                                                                   Indigenous and community
                                                                   Conserved Areas (ICCA)
                                                                   models
Guaranteed and equitable
                                                               •   Dedicated structure for benefit
access to benefits accruing        Restricted access to                                                                MoWNR
                                                                   sharing
from exploitation of natural       forest related resources
                                                               •   Harmonization of existing
resources within Indigenous        including, e.g., honey,                                                                     MoDP, Parliament and
                                                                   policies on benefits sharing        1 year
communities’ territories and in    herbal medicine, fire                                                                       Presidency
distribution of equalization       wood                        •   Say no to proposed
fund, affirmative action public                                    constitutional amendment on
service employment                                                 the equalization fund clause
                                                               •   Percentage share of income
                                                                   revenue (proposed share 60%)
                                   Investment within
                                   Indigenous Peoples’         •   Review the current policy on        10 years
                                                                                                                       MoDP    MoDP, CRA, County
                                                                   equalization 26 fund to target                              governments
                                   territories
                                                                   communities as opposed to
                                                                   Counties
                                                               •   Establishment of a national
                                   Carbon credit/REDD+             Indigenous Peoples Special          1 year          MoDP    CRA, DeP
                                                                   Trust Fund 27



24
   Ilchamus, Yiaku.
25
   Mt Elgon Ogiek.
26
   Constitution of Kenya 2010, Equalization fund art. 204(2), 0.5% share of national revenue for a period of 20 yrs.
27
   Proposed by Sengwer, Ogiek.
                                                                                13
                                                                                                                                       MoICNG, Treasury,
                                                              •   Use of alternative income
                                  Cattle rustling                                                     3 years                          CRA, DeP-WB, EU,
                                                                  generation activities
                                                                                                                                       Finns
                                                              •   Adequate negotiated
                                  Involuntary resettlement
                                                                  compensation based on Free,         3 years            MoEWNR        KNHRC, AG
                                  and relocation 28 by GoK
                                                                  Prior and Informed Consent
                                  Forced political
                                                              •   Consider ethnic identity and
                                  assimilation through                                                                   MoEWNR
                                                                  implication on political
                                  force and scattering of
                                                                  representation in resettlement
                                  resettlement
                                                              •   Dispute resolution mechanism
                                  Human-wildlife 29               Clear Grievance Redress                                              MoEWNR; Judiciary and
                                                                                                      1 year
Conflict resolution                                               mechanism incorporating pre-                           MoEWNR        police service
                                                                  existing customary approaches
                                                              •   Pro-active provision of security,
                                  Politically instigated
                                                                  especially to threatened            Immediately        MoICNG        MoICNG
                                  violence
                                                                  minority 30
                                                              •   Recognition and strengthening
                                  Illegal harvesting of           of Community Based                                     MoEWNR
                                                                                                      Immediately                      MoEWNR
                                  forest products                 Monitoring Information
                                                                  Systems (CBMIS)
                                                              •   Establish clear consultation
                                  Lack/insufficient of            guidelines, informed by Free,
                                                                                                                                       MoDP
                                  consultation                    Prior and Informed Consent and
                                                                  ensure enforcement
                                                              •   Dedicated full scholarship
                                                                  across levels
                                                              •   Sustainable livelihood support
                                  Access to basic
                                                                  system 31
Access to basic government        infrastructure -
                                                              •   Dedicated Ministry on forest        Immediately           CRA,       CRA, MoDP
services and rights as citizens   Education, roads,
                                                                  dwellers/Indigenous Peoples
                                  electricity, health
                                                                  affairs
                                                              •   Enhanced provision of school
                                                                  infrastructure
                                  Violent eviction, loss of   •   Investigation and redress of
Human rights violations           property, gender-based          human rights violations             Immediately                      KNHRC, CAJ
                                  violence, torture,          •   No more violations                                     KNHRC,


28
   Chepyuk of Mt Elgon Ogiek; Sengwer of Embobut forest.
29
   Ilchamus and Yaku.
30
   Ilchamus.
31
   Ogiek of Mau, as informed by the Economic and Social rights – Constitution of Kenya 2010, art. 43, i.e., health care, water, education & emergency treatment.
                                                                              14
                                 criminalization,
                                 destruction of property
                                 Lack of recognition of
                                 women and youth roles       •   Recognition of privileged                     GEC
                                 in conservation and             Indigenous knowledge held by    Immediately            KNHRC, CAJ
                                 natural resource                women
                                 management
                                 Internal marginalization
                                 of women and PWDs
                                 within specific             •   Enforcement of constitutional
Gender, youth and Peoples with
                                 Indigenous Peoples              provisions on equity across                   GEC
Disability (PWDs)                                                                                Immediately            KNHRC, CAJ
                                 groups on ownership of          gender and affirmative action
                                 property and                    on gender, youth and PWDs
                                 participation in decision
                                 making
                                 Women and PWDs
                                                             •   Stop forceful eviction
                                 disproportionately                                                            GEC
                                                             •   Ensure humanitarian aid in      Immediately            KNHRC, CAJ
                                 affected by forceful
                                                                 current situations
                                 evictions
                                                             •   Annual Indigenous
                                                                 Peoples/forest dependent
                                                                 communities dialogue forums                   MoEWNR
                                                                 with government to monitor
                                                                 progress
                                 Need to ensure sustained    •   Facts findings and                            MoEWNR
Monitoring and evaluations       and progressive and             familiarization field           Immediately            MoEWNR
                                 productive engagement           missions/outreach to
                                                                 communities by relevant GoK
                                                                 Ministries, agencies,
                                                                 commissions
                                                             •   Periodic leaders forums to
                                                                 address emerging issues




                                                                            15
  Annex 2: Lessons Learned from Kenya Natural Resources Management Project – A Case Study


Introduction:
This case study presents the Kenya Natural Resources Management Project (NRMP) and discusses challenges of its
preparation and implementation, including political and social context the Project was operating in, including
Inspection Panel case. The case study aims to review the lessons learned from the NRMP preparation and
implementation.

Project Description:
1.      Overview: An IDA credit (US$68.5 million equivalent) for Kenya NRM Project (P095050) was approved
by the Board of Executive Directors in March 2007. The Project’s development objective was to improve the
management of water and forest resources in selected districts. The Project included 4 components:
    • Water Resource Management and Irrigation (US$38.1 million),
    • Management of Forest Resources (US$21.1 million),
    • Livelihood Investments in the Upper Tana Catchment (US$4.5 million), and
    • Management and M&E (US$4.8 million).


2.      Project location: As defined in the PAD, the Project locations included two critical watersheds of the Tana
and the Nzoia Rivers (Figure 1). Project investments concentrated on the upper catchment of the Tana River and two
key watersheds of the Nzoia river catchment, the Kakamega Forest and Mt. Elgon.

3.     Project results: Kenya NRMP was one of the first projects in the Bank in 2007 that utilized a landscape
approach to natural resource management and delivered good results on the ground, at the Project closure in 2013:
    • >145,000 rural people benefitted from irrigation works or through community-driven micro-projects;
    • 320,000 hectares of forest area was brought under approved forest management plans;
    • 172 community-user groups established collaborating with the GoK institutions in water and forest activities,
       with 50.5% women beneficiaries;
    • 713 of livelihood based micro-projects supported, with 51% women beneficiaries;
    • 7,124 Ha of new area was brought under forest cover in Project intervention areas;
    • 9,500 Ha of land under irrigation in Project intervention areas.

Political Context:
4.      From the Board preparation and approval, the Project was operating in a challenging operating environment
given the long history of tension on land and resource rights. The Project progress has come to a complete stall during
the ethnic unrest that followed the 2007 elections.

         Box 1: Use of Shamba system in Kenya:                        Box 2: Kenyan crisis 2007–08:
         The 2005 Forests Act, reintroduced the Shamba                2007-2008 Presidential elections marked a
         system under the new “plantation establishment and           political, economic, and humanitarian crisis
         livelihood improvement scheme (PELIS)”, which                that erupted in Kenya after incumbent
         involved farmers tending tree saplings on state-             President Mwai Kibaki was declared the
         owned forest land in return for being permitted to           winner of the presidential election held on
         intercrop perennial food crops until canopy closure.         December 27, 2007. Supporters of Kibaki's
         The system was supposed to mutually benefits to              opponent, Raila Odinga of the Orange
         both local people and the government. However the            Democratic Movement, alleged electoral
         system has had mixed success in Kenya due to                 manipulation. This was widely confirmed by
         widespread malpractice and associated                        international observers, perpetrated by both
         environmental degradation. In many cases, the                parties in the election. In the aftermath there

                                                          16
         farmers tending to a plot of forest area were never            were more than a 1,000 people killed and
         allocated a new piece of land and were forced to stay          almost 500,000 people displaced as a result of
         in the forest and eventually cut the trees to continue         this conflict.
         subsistence farming.


Project Safeguards Arrangements and Implementation:

5.      Environmental and social safeguards for the document followed a framework approach due to community
driven development nature of the Project and the investments which were small or medium size (water storage and
check dams) with environmental, human health and safety, and trans-boundary impacts that were easy to identify and
mitigate. It was assigned category B for environmental assessment and triggered seven safeguards policies 32. The
Project prepared Environment and Social Management Framework, the Resettlement Policy Framework, and
the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework (IPPF). All safeguards instruments were prepared on time, were
cleared by the GoK and the World Bank RSA and publicly disclosed in Kenya and in the InfoShop. During Project
implementation a Process Framework was developed and approved after widespread consultations, which addressed
customary rights of forest dependent populations and established a grievance mechanism.

6.       In the Project Implementation Completion Box 3. Indigenous People Policy Framework:
Report, the original Project design was evaluated as In Chapter 2, in the section on mitigation measures (page 36)
overly ambitious, including aspirations in the IPPF the document states that the “legal access to forests and to
to resolve long-standing land and forest conflicts natural resources is an important element of sustainable
nationwide that were not realistic given the scope natural resource management. Due to that, the Government
and timeframe of the Project. This ambition of Kenya:… will in line with the Draft Land Policy (§ 190-
contributed to occasional difficulties in maintaining 191) pay special attention and offer specific assistance within
a clear distinction between Project activities and the land restitution process to indigenous peoples to claim all
activities outside the Project, and has at times lands over which indigenous peoples have lost control
blurred the line defining the appropriate boundaries between 1895 and December 30e 2002. A very important
of Project safeguard obligations. These items were element is that past actions don't change the entitlements of
not related to the mitigation of the foreseen Project the indigenous peoples.”
intervention and raised unrealistic expectations
contributing to unresolved conflicts between sections of some communities and the GoK. In addition, it was not
always clear which were the appropriate and representative entities the Project team should engage with given the
dissenting voices of the indigenous people organizations.

7.      Complicating safeguards compliance issues is the underlying fact that the Project documentation at entry was
not internally consistent on safeguards obligations, raising expectations of what NRMP (or any project) could
accomplish on a decades-old simmering legacy of land access issues that continue to punctuate national politics. This
issue could have been further compounded by the turnover in social safeguards staff/consultants during Project
preparation and implementation.

8.       The Project took a proactive approach to help the GoK, the indigenous communities and the Bank to build
trust so that progress can be made on the ground on poverty alleviation, community resource rights, and conservation
in a way that satisfies the vast majority of stakeholders. In general, the GoK and Bank have erred on the side of
caution, reacting promptly to complaints as they have come to their attention, carrying out exceptionally intensive
field supervision (every 10 weeks on average) and verifications, and strongly advising the GoK to implement solutions


32
   Safeguards policies triggered by the Kenya NRMP project: OP 4.01 – Environmental Assessment, OP 4.36 – Forests, OP 4.11
- Physical Cultural Resources, OP 4.10 - Indigenous Peoples, OP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement, OP 7.50 - Projects in
International Waterways, and OP 4.04 - Natural Habitats.

                                                            17
consistent with Project safeguard frameworks and international best practices with regard to environmental and social
safeguards.

9.      One year before Project closure in 2012, the Project team and Bank management worked internally with the
Operations Policy and Country Services Vice Presidency to prepare a dispute resolution approach (complementing
the local Project-level grievance redress mechanism (GRM) led by KFS) to support resolution of community
concerns. The specific actions included delivery of Project benefits, co-management opportunities, initiatives to
address land issues, and a commitment by both KFS and communities to strengthen existing local grievance redress
procedures.

Inspection Panel Case and Follow up Actions:

10.      Request: In January 2013 the Inspection Panel of the World Bank received a request for inspection sent by
individuals from Sengwer communities who “live and represent others who live” in four areas of the Cherangany
Hills – an area, which was not originally considered for Project implementation (Figure 1) – claiming that they have
suffered harm as a result of the Bank’s “failure and omissions” in the Project for incidents between 2007 and 2011.

11.      Inspection Panel Findings: The Panel found that evictions were not supported as part of the NRMP.
However, it noted that more attention should have been given from the outset to better identify and mitigate the risk
that evictions might occur and that the correct application of the safeguard policies may have prevented or mitigated
these harms. The Panel also found an inadequate institutional analysis of KFS.

12.     The Panel found that Management responded repeatedly, and firmly brought to the attention of the GoK
instances of non-compliance with social safeguards obligations during Project implementation and succeeded in
securing a moratorium on evictions. The Panel noted that the livelihood activities implemented after the restructuring
of the Project in 2011 was appreciated by, and beneficial to, community members but it was not part of a broader
strategy to protect customary rights, and this is in non-compliance with the safeguard policy on Indigenous Peoples.

13.      After reviewing the issues raised, Bank Management concluded that any harm that may have stemmed from
the incidents cited in the request was not caused or aggravated by the Project, nor has the Project supported these
incidents. Management stated that in spite of the difficult operating environment which included complex and
sensitive legacy issues, the Bank had complied with the policies and procedures applicable to the matters raised in the
request.

14.      Following the Inspection investigation the Management committed to an action plan, which included holding
a Colloquium to promote dialogue and cooperation on land and legacy issues among forest stakeholders; and
providing technical assistance on social safeguards in Kenya. The key objectives of the Action Plan were to: (i)
facilitate constructive dialogue and foster cooperation among key stakeholders in the forest sector in Kenya; (ii) share
national and global experience and best practices on the management of forest resources for win-win solutions for
poverty reduction, livelihoods improvement and environmental sustainability; and (iii) support and increase capacity
of the clients and forest stakeholders to understand and apply social safeguards policies under the WB financed
projects.

15.     Despite these efforts, before, during and after delivery of the Colloquium, certain stakeholders continued to
generate negative messages and allegations about the connection between the Bank and alleged evictions. The Bank
team continues to implement a proactive communications plan to manage these, however, such negative messages
will be promulgated by certain groups almost irrespective of what the Bank and the GOK are able to do in the near
term.




                                                          18
Lessons Learned

16.      At preparation stage:
Be realistic about Project Development Objectives and define project boundaries very carefully.
Given the scope and timeframe of the Project, the original Project design was overly ambitious concerning the
resolution of long-standing land and forest conflicts. This has contributed to difficulties in maintaining a clear
distinction between Project activities and activities outside the Project, and blurred the line defining appropriate
boundaries of Project safeguard obligations in forested intervention areas. The approach set forth in the IPPF on
resettlement and restoration of livelihoods was overly ambitious and difficult to implement given the scope of
NRMP’s forest component and the limited mandate of the implementing agency, the KFS. This view implies that the
original Project design underestimated the complexity of the Project context.

17.      The CDD livelihoods micro-projects can be a good approach for helping incentivize local communities in co-
managing natural resources with the government while enhancing livelihoods. Much work needs to be done at the
same time to incentivize Government agencies to likewise move toward co-management of the resource. For some
forest agencies around the world, such a transformation is a paradigm shift that requires longer-term engagement than
a 3-5 year project allows. The CDD project manual was a useful tool to promote activities that can allow communities
to conserve more and produce more. NRM-based livelihoods can effectively improve community participation in
sustainable co-management of resources while improving their livelihoods and mitigating destruction of catchments.

Provide required attention to ensure project quality at entry:
• Difference in definition of the intervention areas in the PAD and IPPF which led to continuous misunderstanding
   of the Project scope by some stakeholders.
• Difference in PDO definition in the Financing Agreement and PAD.
• Unrealistic indicators and over-optimistic targets.
• Weak implementation readiness by the Implementing Agencies.
• No consistent assignment of social safeguards specialist, with occasional consultants assigned safeguards
   responsibilities, which led to lack of sufficient attention to quality of the safeguards instruments.

18.      Transition from Preparation to Implementation stage:
Ensure continuity, preferably maintaining staff throughout the project cycle.
Project staff changes at implementing agencies should be kept to a minimum to maintain the learning curve. Before
the start of the project, it is important to spend the time and resources needed to provide solid baseline information,
based on consistent and realistic indicators, so that project impacts can be effectively assessed. It is equally important
to document the baseline information and make provisions for training and capacity building of project staff to ensure
common understanding of the project design and goals.

Ensure the government’s team understanding and ownership of the project documents.
Mainstreaming project implementation activities within the implementing agencies enhances ownership and ensures
sustainability. Capacity building of institutional staff involved in implementation of project activities should be
encouraged throughout the project period. In this way a critical mass for implementing future similarly funded projects
is created and momentum can be gained on the delivery of project outputs.

19.        Takeaways from Project Implementation:
      a)   Communicate with all stakeholders on an ongoing basis.
      b)   Document and archive relevant communications at all times.
      c)   Fulfill all commitments made in PAD on project supervision.
      d)   Be appreciative of local traditions; develop solutions around these.
      e)   Ensure to engage to confirmed representatives of beneficiaries and stakeholders.

                                                           19
    f) Be aware of potential elite capture by individuals not representing project stakeholders.
    g) Be proactive, especially when Request for Investigation is filed.
    h) Establish trust, and work closely with the project sponsors for solutions.

20.      Takeaways from the Inspection Panel case:
There were several lessons that could be learned, particularly, that sustainable forest management is constrained in
many parts of Kenya by conflicts over or uncertainty concerning the respective rights of local people and government
to forest resources and to the land in and around forests. Land issues have a deep, historical legacy in Kenya. While
untangling such a legacy is beyond the purview of any single project, the World Bank Group continues to be
committed to playing an important role as a facilitator and a partner to help foster dialogue amongst various
stakeholders in the forest sector.




                                                         20
