OFFIAL
jIN)CUMENTS~
The World Bank                                 1818 H Street N.W.      (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION          U.S.A.                  Cable Address: INDEVAS
June 5, 2013
Mr. Henry Rotich
Cabinet Secretary
The National Treasury
Treasury Building
Nairobi, Kenya
Dear Mr. Rotich,
Re: Grant No. TF093520 Support to Community Based Farm Forestry
Enterprises in Semi-Arid Areas in Kenya Project
First Revised Disbursement Letter
Additional Instructions: Disbursement
I refer to the Letter Agreement ("Agreement") between the International Development
Association ("World Bank"), acting as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan under the Japan
Social Development Fund dated August 27, 2009, and the Republic of Kenya (the "Recipient") for the
above-referenced project. The Agreement provides that the World Bank may issue additional
instructions regarding the withdrawal of the proceeds of Grant TF 093520 ("Grant"). This letter
("Disbursement Letter") is the first revised version and includes a provision for the use of
electronic submission of applications as well as indicating a minimum application size, which
supersedes the original version and constitutes the additional instructions.
The attached World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006,
("Disbursement Guidelines") (Attachment 1), are an integral part of the Disbursement Letter.
The manner in which the provisions in the Disbursement Guidelines apply to the Grant is
specified below. Sections and subsections in parentheses below refer to the relevant sections and
subsections in the Disbursement Guidelines and, unless otherwise defined in this letter, the
capitalized terms used have the meanings ascribed to them in the Disbursement Guidelines.
I. Disbursement Arrangements
(i) Disbursement Methods (section 2). The following Disbursement Methods may be used
under the Grant:
* Reimbursement
* Advance


﻿(ii) Disbursement Deadline Date (subsection 3.7). The Disbursement Deadline Date is 4months
after the Closing Date specified in the Grant Agreement. Any changes to this date will be
notified by the World Bank.
II. Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
(i) Authorized Signatures (subsection 3.1).
A letter in the Form attached (Attachment 2) should be furnished to the Association at the address
indicated below providing the name(s) and specimen signature(s) of the official(s) authorized to sign
Applications:
The World Bank
Kenya Country Office
Upper Hill Road
Nairobi, Kenya
Attention: Diarietou Gaye
Country Director
(ii) Applications (subsections 3.2 - 3.3). Please provide completed and signed (a) applications
for withdrawal, together with supporting documents to the address indicated below:
The World Bank,
Loan Department,
Kenya Re Towers, 10th Floor,
Upper Hill, off Ragati Road,
Nairobi, Kenya.
Attention: Mr. Anthony Okwako
(iii) Electronic Delivery (subsection 3.4) The World Bank may permit the Recipient to
electronically deliver to the World Bank Applications (with supporting documents) through the
World Bank's Client Connection, web-based portal. The option to deliver Applications to the
World Bank by electronic means may be effected if: (a) the Recipient has designated in writing,
pursuant to the terms of subparagraph (i) of this Section, its officials who are authorized to sign
and deliver Applications and to receive secure identification credentials ("SIDC") from the
World Bank for the purpose of delivering such Applications by electronic means; and (b) all
such officials designated by the Recipient have registered as users of Client Connection. If the
World Bank agrees, the World Bank will provide the Recipient with SIDC for the designated
officials. Following which, the designated officials may deliver Applications electronically by
completing Form 2380, which is accessible through Client Connection
(https://clientconnection.worldbank.org). The Recipient may continue to exercise the option of
preparing and delivering Applications in paper form. The World Bank reserves the right and
may, in its sole discretion, temporarily or permanently disallow the electronic delivery of
Applications by the Recipient.
(iv) Terms and Conditions of Use of SIDC to Process Applications. By designating officials to
use SDIC and by choosing to deliver the Applications electronically, the Recipient confirms


﻿through the authorized signatory letter its agreement to: (a) abide by the Terms and Conditions of
Use ofSecure Identification Credentials in connection with Use ofElectronic Means to Process
Applications and Supporting Documentation ("Terms and Conditions of Use of SIDC") provided
in Attachment 2; and (b) to cause such official to abide by those terms and conditions.
-(v) Minimum Value ofApplications (subsection 3.5). The Minimum Value of Applications is
USD 200,000.00.
-(vi) Advances (sections 5 and 6).
*  Type of Designated Account (subsection 5.3): Segregated.
*  Currency of Designated Account (subsection 5.4): United States Dollars (US$)
*  Financial Institution at which the Designated Account Will Be Opened
(subsection 5.5): Commercial Bank acceptable to the World Bank.
*  Ceiling (subsection 6.1): forecast for 2 quarters as provided in the quarterly Unaudited
Interim Financial Report.
III. Reporting on Use of Grant Proceeds
(i) Supporting Documentation (section 4). Supporting documentation should be provided with
each application for withdrawal as set out below:
For requests for Reimbursement and For reporting eligible expenditures paid
from the Designated Account:
*  Interim Financial Report in the form attached (Attachment 4); and
*  List of payments against contracts that are subject to the World Bank's prior review, in the
form attached (Attachment 5);
(ii) Frequency of Reporting Eligible Expenditures Paid from the Designated Account
(subsection 6.3): quarterly.
IV. Other Important Information
For additional information on disbursement arrangements, please refer to the
Disbursement Handbook available on the World Bank's public website at
https://www.worldbank.org and its secure website "Client Connection" at
https://clientconnection.worldbank.org. Print copies are available upon request.
If you have not already done so, the World Bank recommends that you register as a user
of the Client Connection website (https://clientconnection.worldbank.org). From this website
you will be able to download Applications, monitor the near real-time status of the Grant, and
retrieve related policy, financial, and procurement information. All Recipient officials
authorized to sign and deliver Applications by electronic means are required to register with
Client Connection before electronic delivery can be effected. For more information about the


﻿website and registration arrangements, please contact the World Bank by email at
<clientconnection@worldbank.org>.
If you have any queries in relation to the above, please contact Wolfgang Chadab, Senior
Finance Officer at Wchadab.a@worldbank.org using the above reference.
Yours sincerely,
Diarietou Gaye
Country Director for Kenya
Africa Region
Attachments
I. World Bank Disburs ment Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006
2. Sample form for Authorised Signatures
3. Terms and Conditions of Use ofSecure Identification Credentials in connection with Use of
Electronic Means to Process Applications and Supporting Documentation, dated March 1,
2013
4. Form of Interim Financial Report
5. Form of Payments Against Contracts Subject to the World Bank's Prior Review
Wolfgang Chadab
Cleared with and cc: Nightingale Rukuba-Ngaiza
Stephen Danyo


﻿Attachment 2
Form of Authorized Signatory Letter
[Letterhead]
Ministry of Finance
[Street address]
[DATE]
The World Bank
Resident Mission
Nairobi, Kenya
Attention: Diarietou Gaye
Re: IDA Financing. _-        Kenya Water Security and Climate Resilience Project
I refer to the Financing Agreement ("Agreement") between the International
Development Association (the "Association") and the Republic of Kenya (the "Recipient"),
dated         , providing the above Financing. For the purposes of Section 2.03 of the General
Conditions as defined in the Agreement, any 1[one] of the persons whose authenticated
specimen signatures appear below is authorized on behalf of the Recipient to sign applications
for withdrawal [and applications for a special commitment] under this Financing.
For the purpose of delivering Applications to the Association, 2[each] of the persons
whose authenticated specimen signatures appears below is authorized on behalf of the
Recipient, acting 3[individually] 4[ointly], to deliver Applications, and evidence in support
thereof on the terms and conditions specified by the Association.
5[This confirms that the Recipient is authorizing such persons to accept Tokens and to
deliver the Applications and supporting documents to the Association by electronic means. In
full recognition that the Association shall rely upon such representations and warranties,
including without limitation, the representations and warranties contained in the Terms and
1 Instruction to the Recipient: Stipulate if more than one person needs to sign Applications, and how many or which
positions, and if any thresholds apply. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Association.
2 Instruction to the Recipient: Stipulate if more than one person needs to jointly sign Applications, if so, please
indicate the actual number. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Association.
Instruction to the Recipient: Use this bracket if any one of the authorized persons may sign; if this is not
applicable, please delete. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Association.
4 Instruction to the Recipient: Use this bracket only if several individuals must jointly sign each Application; if this
is not applicable, please delete. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Association.
5 Instruction to the Recipient: Add this paragraph if the Recipient wishes to authorize the listed persons to accept
Tokens and to deliver Applications by electronic means; if this is not applicable, please delete the paragraph. Please
delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Association.


﻿Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Devices in connection with Use of Electronic Means to Process
Applications and Supporting Documentation ("Terms and Conditions of Use of Tokens"), the
Recipient represents and warrants to the Association that it will deliver to each such person a
copy of the Terms and Conditions of Use of Tokens and will cause such persons to abide by
those terms and conditions.]
This Authorization replaces and supersedes any Authorization currently in the
Association records with respect to this Agreement.
[Name], [position]      Specimen Signature:
[Name], [position]      Specimen Signature:
[Name], [position]      Specimen Signature:
Yours truly,
/ signed /
[Position]


﻿Attachment 3
Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Credentials
in connection with Use of Electronic Means
to Process Applications
and Supporting Documentation
March 1, 2013
The World Bank (Bank)' will provide secure identification credentials (SIDC) to permit the
Borrower2 to deliver applications for withdrawal and applications for special commitments under
the Agreement(s) and supporting documentation (such applications and supporting
documentation together referred to in these Terms and Conditions of Use as Applications) to the
Bank electronically, on the terms and conditions of use specified herein.
SIDC can be either: (a) hardware-based (Physical Token), or (b) software-based (Soft Token).
The Bank reserves the right to determine which type of SIDC is most appropriate.
A.    Identification of Users.
1. The Borrower will be required to identify in a completed Authorized Signatory Letter (ASL)
duly delivered to and received by the Bank each person who will be authorized to deliver
Applications. The Bank will provide SIDC to each person identified in the ASL
(Signatory), as provided below. The Borrower shall also immediately notify the Bank if
a Signatory is no longer authorized by the Borrower to act as a Signatory.
2. Each Signatory must register as a user on the Bank's Client Connection (CC) website
(https://clientconnection.worldbank.org) prior to receipt of his/her SIDC. Registration on
CC will require that the Signatory establish a CC password (CC Password). The
Signatory shall not reveal his/her CC Password to anyone or store or record the CC
Password in written or other form. Upon registration as a CC user, the Signatory will be
assigned a unique identifying account name.
B.    Initialization of SIDC.
1.    Prior to initialization of SIDC by a Signatory, the Signatory will acknowledge having
read, understood and agreed to be bound by these Terms and Conditions of Use.
'"Bank" includes IBRD and IDA.
2 "Borrower" includes the borrower of an IBRD loan, IDA credit, or Project Preparation Facility advance and the
recipient of a grant.


﻿2.    Where a Physical Token is to be used, promptly upon receipt of the Physical Token, the
Signatory will access CC using his/her account name and CC Password and register
his/her Physical Token and set a personal identification number (PIN) to be used in
connection with the use of his/her Physical Token, after which the Physical Token will be
initialized for use by the Signatory exclusively for purposes of delivering Applications.
Where a Soft Token is to be used, the Signatory will access CC using his/her account
name and CC Password and set a personal identification number (PIN) to be used in
connection with the use of his/her Soft Token, after which the Soft Token will be
initialized for use by the Signatory exclusively for purposes of delivering Applications.
Upon initialization of the SIDC, the Signatory will be a "SIDC User". The Bank will
maintain in its database a user account (Account) for each SIDC User for purposes of
managing the SIDC of the SIDC User. Neither the Borrower nor the SIDC User will
have any access to the Account.
3.    Prior to first use of the SIDC by the SIDC User, the Borrower shall ensure that the SIDC
User has received training materials provided by the Bank in use of the SIDC.
C.    Use of SIDC.
1. Use of the SIDC is strictly limited to use in the delivery of Applications by the SIDC
User in the manner prescribed by the Bank in the Agreement(s) and these Terms and
Conditions. Any other use of the SIDC is prohibited.
2.    The Bank assumes no responsibility or liability whatsoever for any misuse of the SIDC
by the SIDC User, other representatives of the Borrower, or third parties.
3.    The Borrower undertakes to ensure, and represents and warrants to the Bank (such
representation and warranty being expressly relied upon by the Bank in granting SIDC)
that each SIDC User understands and will abide by, these Terms and Conditions of Use,
including without limitation the following:
4.    Security
4.1. The SIDC User shall not reveal his/her PIN to anyone or store or record the PIN in
written or other form.
4.2. The SIDC User shall not allow anyone else to utilize his/her SIDC to deliver an
Application to the Bank.
4.3. The SIDC User shall always logout from CC when not using the system. Failure to
logout properly can create a route into the system that is unprotected.
4.4. If the SIDC User believes a third party has learned his/her PIN or has lost his/her
Physical Token he/she shall immediately notify clientconnection@worldbank.org.


﻿4.5. The Borrower shall immediately notify the Bank at
clientconnectiongworldbank.org of any lost, stolen or compromised SIDC, and take
other reasonable steps to ensure such SIDC are disabled immediately.
5.   Reservation of Right to Disable SIDC
5.1. The Borrower shall reserve the right to revoke the authorization of a SIDC User to
use a SIDC for any reason.
5.2. The Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to temporarily or permanently
disable a SIDC, de-activate a SIDC User's Account or both.
6.   Care of Physical Tokens
6.1. Physical Tokens will remain the property of the Bank.
6.2. The Bank will physically deliver a Physical Token to each Signatory designated to
receive one in a manner to be determined by and satisfactory to the Bank.
6.3. Physical Tokens contain delicate and sophisticated instrumentation and therefore
should be handled with due care, and should not be immersed in liquids, exposed to
extreme temperatures, crushed or bent. Also, Physical Tokens should be kept more than
five (5) cm from devices that generate electromagnetic radiation (EMR), such as mobile
phones, phone-enabled PDAs, smart phones and other similar devices. Physical Tokens
should be carried and stored separate from any EMR device. At close range (less than 5
cm), these devices can output high levels of EMR that can interfere with the proper
operation of electronic equipment, including the Physical Token.
6.4. Without derogating from these Terms and Conditions of Use, other technical
instructions on the proper use and care of Physical Tokens are available at
http://www.rsa.com.
7.    Replacement
7.1. Lost, damaged, compromised (in terms of 4.5, above) or destroyed Physical
Tokens will be replaced at the expense of the Borrower.
7.2. The Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, not to replace any Physical
Token in the case of misuse, or not to reactivate a SIDC User's Account.


﻿Attachment 4
DA Activity Statement
IDA CREDIT                      TF 93520
REPORT                          QUARTERLY INTERIM FINANCIAL REPORT (IFR)
THIS SCHEDULE                   DESIGNA TED ACCOUNTACTIVITYSTATEMENT
PERIOD OF REPORT                QUARTER ENDED     xxxxxPAPc"
CURRENCY FOR THIS REPORT        US DOLLARS
DA"/SA DEPOSIT BANK
DA"/SA NUMBER
DESIGNATED (DA) ACCOUNT
1. Cumulative IDA CREDITS at the end of current period
2 (a) Cumulative expenditures to end of last reporting period -Documented
2 (b)Cumulative expenditures to end of last reporting period - Undocumented
3.Oustanding IDA advance to be Accounted for (Line I minus Line 2)
4.Opening DA /SA Balance at beginning of reporting period,as of
5. Add: Fund balance in project accounts
6.Add:Advances from World Bank during current reporting period
7.Add Line 5 and 6
8.Oustanding advance to be accounted for (Add Line 4 and Line 7)
9.Closing " DA"/SA" balance at end of current reporting period, if any
10. Add: Fund balance in Project accounts and adjustments
11.Add/ (substract) :Expenditures for the current reporting period
12.Add Line 10 and Line 11
13.Add Line 9 and Line 12
14. Difference, if any (Line 8 minus Line 13)
15. Total amount to be paid by World Bank          (Six months forecast)
16. Less: Closing "DA" /SA" balance after adjustments
17. Direct payments /SC Payments
18. Add Line 16 and Line 17
19. Cash requirements from World Bank for next two reporting periods (Line 15 minus Line 18 )


﻿Attachment 5
Payments Made during Reporting Period
Against Contracts Subject to the Bank's Prior Review
Date of                   WB's Share of
WB'S Non   Amneut Paid to,,  Awt Paid to


