                 Document of
               The World Bank


                                        Report No: 72299 v1




            RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                    ON A

      PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                    OF
  AR CORDOBA ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
                   LOAN

                 June 8, 2006


                   TO THE

      PROVINCE OF CORDOBA – ARGENTINA

WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC


                 June 12, 2012
                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CREMA   Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Contract (Contrato de Rehabilitacion
        y Mantenimiento)

PDO     Project Development Objective




            Regional Vice President:        Hasan A. Tuluy
                  Country Director:         Penelope J. Brook
                    Sector Director:        Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez
                   Sector Manager:          Aurelio Menendez
                 Task Team Leader:          Veronica Ines Raffo

                                        2
                                  Extension of Closing Date


              ARGENTINA — AR CORDOBA ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE
                                 P099585
                               LOAN 7398-AR

                                     Restructuring Paper

1. The closing date for Argentina, Cordoba Road Infrastructure, Loan No. 7398-AR,
   P099585 will be extended from October 31, 2012 until June 30, 2013.

2. The project entails a US$75 million loan extended directly to the Province of Cordoba with
   the guarantee of the Government of Argentina. It was approved by the Board on July 11,
   2006 and became effective on December 13, 2006. The loan is 96 percent disbursed. The
   latest ratings for progress towards achievement of the Project Development Objective (PDO)
   and Implementation Progress are both satisfactory. The PDO remains achievable.

3. Implementation progress is significantly advanced with the major civil works completed with
   only the last maintenance phase of the CREMA contract remaining. The institutional
   component is also in the final phase, and has had important successes in the road safety,
   financial management, governance, and road asset management areas. The Project has been
   highly successful todate, as evidenced in beneficiary satisfaction levels noted in the mid-term
   review; and through beneficiary and stakeholder review meeting held in the most recent
   supervision mission (May 2012). It also has a consistently satisfactory track record during
   implementation with provincial authorities providing attention to fiduciary (financial
   management and procurement); and safeguards (social and environmental) requirements as
   per Bank policies and guidelines. The latest audit report has been received by the Bank and
   found to be satisfactory. The contracting process is underway for the firm to carry out the
   audits for both 2011 and 2012. In addition, neither the loan in particular, nor the country
   in general is subject to an ongoing suspension of loan disbursements.

4. The proposed extension is necessary to : (i) further the major governance agenda by
   completing the procurement and installation of priority information technology
   equipment and systems related to the Province’s efforts for increased transparency,
   accountability, and citizen responsiveness (SuperCentro initiative); (ii) further the
   road safety agenda that has been of high impact, and a model for other provinces by
   the procurement of priority road safety equipment; and (iii) enable the timely
   conclusion of the CREMA contract (which ends May 2013). The Borrower has a plan
   to satisfactorily complete the project in the extended time.

5.      This will be the first extension of the project (8 months extension total).




                                                3
