                                   Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR3044



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-73980)



                                  ON A LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 75.00 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                    PROVINCE OF CORDOBA, ARGENTINA

                                    FOR A

              PROVINCIAL ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT



                                 April 21, 2014




Sustainable Development Department
Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

        (Exchange Rate Effective: April 21, 2014)

         Currency Unit= Argentine Peso (AR$)
                AR$ 1.00 = US$ 0.125
                US$ 1.00 = AR$ 8.001



                    FISCAL YEAR
               [January 1 – December 31]

        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACIF     Cordoba’s Agency for Investment and Financing
         (Agencia Córdoba de Inversión y Financiamiento)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CREMA    Performance-based Rehabilitation and Maintenance
         Contracts (Contrato de Rehabilitación y Mantenimiento
         por Resultados)
DNV      National Directorate of Highways (Dirección Nacional
         de Vialidad)
DPAT     Directorate of Road Accidents Prevention (Dirección de
         Prevención de Accidentes de Tránsito)
DPV      Provincial Directorate of Highways (Dirección
         Provincial de Vialidad)
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GoA      Government of Argentina
GoP      Government of the Province
HDM      Highway Development and Management Model
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
INDEC    National Institute of Social and Population
         Statistics (Instituto Nacional de Estadísticas y Censos)
IRI      International Roughness Index
ISR      Implementation and Status and Results Report
NPV      Net Present Value
NR       National Road
MOF      Ministry of Finance (Ministerio de Finanzas)
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
PFM      Provincial Financial Management System
PMCP     Provincial Roads Improvement Program
PMU       Project Management Unit
PC        Province of Cordoba
PR        Provincial Road
PRPII     Provincial Road Project Phase II
PMAyS     Environmental and Social Management Plan
REP       Resettlement and Expropriation Plan
SIAF      Integrated Financial Management System (Sistema
          Integrado de Agregación Financiera)
UTES      Sectorial Implementation Technical Units (Unidades
          Técnicas Ejecutoras Sectoriales)



              Vice President: Hasan Tuluy
            Country Director: Sabine Hader (acting)
             Sector Manager: Aurelio Menendez
        Project Team Leader: Verónica I. Raffo
           ICR Team Leader: Verónica I. Raffo / Stephen Muzira
                                          ARGENTINA
                           Cordoba Provincial Road Infrastructure Project



                                                        CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 17
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 22
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 23
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 26
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 27
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 28
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 29
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 35
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 41
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 43
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 45
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 50
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 71
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 72
  MAP .............................................................................................................................. 73
A. Basic Information
                                                                         AR Cordoba Road
Country:                Argentina               Project Name:
                                                                         Infrastructure
Project ID:             P099585                 L/C/TF Number(s):        IBRD-73980
ICR Date:               04/15/2014              ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                         PROVINCE OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                         CORDOBA
Original Total
                        USD 75.00M              Disbursed Amount:        USD 75.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 75.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Agencia Cordoba de Inversion y Financiamiento
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       02/14/2006     Effectiveness:             12/13/2006       12/13/2006
                                                                                 12/23/2009
Appraisal:            05/17/2006     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                 09/04/2012
Approval:             07/11/2006     Mid-term Review:           07/31/2010       07/31/2010
                                     Closing:                   10/31/2012       10/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                1
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways                              97                   97
Sub-national government administration                                 3                      3


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                40                   40
Injuries and non-communicable diseases                                20                   20
Municipal finance                                                     20                   20
Municipal governance and institution building                         20                   20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Hasan A. Tuluy                       Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Sabine Hader                         Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager:            Aurelio Menendez                     Jose Luis Irigoyen
Project Team Leader:       Veronica Ines Raffo                  Pierre Graftieaux
ICR Team Leader:           Veronica Ines Raffo
ICR Primary Author:        Mirtha Susan S. De Pokorny
                           Stephen Muzira


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Improve the reliability of the Province's road sector assets and the efficiency of their
management as a means to support the Province's competitiveness and economic growth,
by building up institutional capacity to encourage efficient planning policies and
adequate resource allocation for the rehabilitation and maintenance of the core provincial
road network.


                                                 2
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally        Actual Value
                                              Values (from          Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval            Target       Completion or
                                               documents)            Values        Target Years
                  Percentage of projects in ACIF's portfolio with financial, production and impact
Indicator 1 :
                  indicators defined and monitored
Value
quantitative or   50%                       100%                                95%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/02/2006                10/31/2012                          10/31/2013
Comments
                  Target largely met. ACIF's projects are monitored on the basis of a multiplicity
(incl. %
                  of indicators, including financial, production and impact indicators.
achievement)
                  Road assets preserved with acceptable average roughness (IRI) to avoid
Indicator 2 :
                  accumulation of future liabilities and reduce operational costs
Value
quantitative or   3.10                      IRI below 3                         2.8
Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/02/2006                10/31/2012                          10/31/2013
Comments
                  Target met. Based on the latest DPV information the average IRI in the network
(incl. %
                  is below 3 (2.8).
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                               Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                 approval                         Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                               documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Strategic 5-year road program prepared and published
Value
                                           Yes (revised
(quantitative   No                                                            Yes
                                           annually)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/02/2006                   10/31/2012                         10/31/2013
                Target partially met. A strategic 5 year program was prepared during the project's
Comments
                1st year. Currently, because of budgetary uncertainties the planning horizon was
(incl. %
                reduced to 1 year, on the basis of network condition and performance surveys
achievement)
                and indexes.
Indicator 2 : ACIF Annual Performance Reports publicly disseminated
Value
                No                         Yes                                Yes
(quantitative



                                                  3
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/02/2006               10/31/2012                          10/31/2013
Comments          Target met. The Agency prepares programs and budgets that, as is the case with
(incl. %          other government agencies, are included in the web site of the Ministry of
achievement)      Finance (www.cba.gov.ar).
Indicator 3 :     Ministry of Finance Annual Performance Reports publicly disseminated
Value
(quantitative     No                         Yes                                Yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/02/2006                 10/31/2012                          10/31/2013
                  Target met. The Ministry made substantial inroads in the improvement of
Comments
                  transparency and governance through the dissemination of budgets and
(incl. %
                  provincial accounts and performance reports, publicly disseminated at
achievement)
                  www.cba.gov.ar.
                  Strategy to address road safety management capacity strengthening priorities
Indicator 4 :
                  designed and road Safety Plan Implemented
Value                                                                            Road Safety Plan
(quantitative     No                         Plan implemented                    prepared and
or Qualitative)                                                                  implemented
Date achieved     10/02/2006                 10//31/2012                         10/31/2013
Comments          Target met. A comprehensive Road Safety Plan was prepared and successfully
(incl. %          implemented. The project is now also monitoring road safety indicators related to
achievement)      reduction in deaths caused by traffic accidents on provincial roads.
Indicator 5 :     Coverage of CREMA system in targeted network
                                                                                 (i) 5% (under this
                                             (i) Without PRPII (i) Without       project: 140km
Value
                                             10%                 PRPII 5%        under CREMA 3)
(quantitative     0
                                             (ii) With PRPII     (ii) With       (ii) 12% (with other
or Qualitative)
                                             25%                 PRPII 10%       CREMAs financed
                                                                                 under the PRPII)
Date achieved     10/02/2006                 10/31/2012          12/23/2009      10/31/2013
                  Target partially met. A total of 542 km (with this project plus Provincial Roads
Comments
                  Project II) have been maintained under CREMA contracts. In addition, 4,040 km
(incl. %
                  of the paved network (with a total of 4,601 kms) are maintained under
achievement)
                  "Cobertura" contracts.
Indicator 6 :     291 km of key productive roads rehabilitated
Value
(quantitative     0 km                       291 km             140 km          140 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/02/2006                 10/31/2012         12/23/2009      10/31/2013
Comments
                  Target met, on the basis of the formally revised target. Original target of 291km
(incl. %
                  reduced to 140km given funding constraints.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     174 km of key productive roads paved
Value
(quantitative     0 km                       174 km             125 km          125 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/02/2006                 10/31/2012         12/23/2009      10/31/2013


                                                   4
Comments
                  Target substantially met. Original target of 174 km reduced to 125 km given
(incl. %
                  funding constraints.
achievement)
                  596km km of roads maintained with no potholes, no edge break between the
Indicator 8 :
                  pavement and shoulders, horizontal marking and vertical signs restored
Value
(quantitative     0 km                        596 km           424 km         542 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/02/2006                  10/31/2012          12/23/2009    10/31/2013
Comments          Target met. Target of number of Km rehabilitated, paved and maintained revised
(incl. %          due to cost escalations. Total extension of the network maintained is 542 km
achievement)      (with this project and 2nd Provincial Roads Project).

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                        IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     09/15/2006             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     05/08/2007             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     2.19
  3     11/19/2007             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     4.00
  4     06/04/2008             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   10.55
  5     11/25/2008             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   26.55
  6     05/12/2009             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   38.48
  7     11/30/2009             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   52.62
  8     05/15/2010             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   61.61
  9     02/16/2011             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   69.69
 10     07/27/2011             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   72.17
 11     01/30/2012             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   72.17
 12     09/06/2012             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   72.17
 13     03/20/2013             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   73.20
 14     10/29/2013             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   75.00


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Revision of physical targets in
                                                     the results frameworks due to
                                                     cost increases. New targets
 12/23/2009       N       S       S          54.39
                                                     agreed in Aides Memories and
                                                     during negotiations of
                                                     additional financing operation


                                                  5
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     (which was then dropped) and
                                                     reflected in operations portal
                                                     through processing of ISR.
                                                     The reason for restructuring was
                                                     a one year extension to : (i)
                                                     further the major governance
                                                     agenda by completing the
                                                     procurement and installation of
                                                     priority information technology
                                                     equipment and systems related
                                                     to the Province’s efforts for
                                                     increased transparency,
                                                     accountability, and citizen
 09/04/2012               S       S          72.17
                                                     responsiveness (SuperCentro
                                                     initiative); (ii) further the
                                                     road safety agenda that has been
                                                     of high impact, and a model for
                                                     other provinces by the
                                                     procurement of priority road
                                                     safety equipment; and (iii)
                                                     enable the timely conclusion of
                                                     the CREMA contract (which
                                                     ends May 2013).




                                         6
I. Disbursement Profile




                          7
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
At the time of project appraisal the economy of Argentina was moving away from the
2001 crisis and growing rapidly. Argentina’s annual growth rates between 2003 and 2007
were quite impressive, ranging between 8.8 percent to 9.2 percent of Gross Domestic
Product (GDP). Concurrent improvements in the debt position were achieved with the
Debt-to-GDP ratio falling from 126.4 percent in 2004 to 55.7 percent in 2007. However,
this favorable macro-economic context was shadowed by persistently high inflation.
INDEC, the national statistics institute, measured inflation at 6.1 percent in 2004, and 8.5
percent in 2007 with a peak of 12.3 percent in 2005. Moving more specifically to the
construction sector, the Argentina Construction Chamber (Camara Argentina de La
Construccion, CAC) noted significantly high levels of inflation in the road sector, ranging
from 15.2 percent in 2005 to 20 percent in 2008.

The province of Cordoba, with 8.5 % of the country’s population and 17.5% of its total
surface area, was contributing to that rapid growth, particularly in the agriculture and
tourism sectors. The relative importance of the agricultural sector in the economy of the
Province almost doubled between the mid-90’s and the 2002-2004 triennium, from 7-8%
to 15%. In particular: (i) 81% of the surface of the Province is dedicated to agricultural
activities, mainly cereals and cattle; (ii) the sown surface had increased by 29% between
2000 and 2003 (adding up a seeded area of 7, 480,000 ha in 2012), and (iii) the total
production of grains increased from 6 million tons in 1993 to 20 million in 2003 (and
reached a peak of almost 27 million tons in 2008). 1 In addition, tourism is a fast-growing
sector of Cordoba’s economy. While before the crisis in 2000 the Province received 3.5
million visitors, it received more than 6 million in 2004 and the most recent figures show
an average and steady annual increase of 8%.

In spite of this substantial economic growth little money had been dedicated to road
maintenance and very little to the extension of the paved road network, which led to a
severe maintenance backlog. 2 In 2003 DPV’s budget amounted to an estimated US$ 26
million while the minimum financial needs for the gradual rehabilitation and maintenance
of the provincial network was estimated to be in the order of US$ 80 million. Addressing
the most urgent needs in terms of rehabilitation and paving was expected to allow the
Province to prevent road sector deficiencies from becoming a bottleneck to further
growth.

1
  Source: MAGyP (Ministerio de Agricultura, Ganadería y Pesca de la Nación). Crops included are cotton,
bird seed, rice, oats, brewer barley, feeder barley, rye, corn, millet, grain sorghum, wheat, durum wheat,
safflower, rapeseed, sunflower seed, line seed, groundnut and soybean.
2
  Overall investment in Argentina from 2000 to 2003 fell over 54 percent from its average level in the
1993-2000 period. Investments in road rehabilitation and construction by DNV and DPVs followed this
trend falling 35 percent from 2000 to 2003, relative to the average investment rate for the 1993-1999
period. Source: Project Appraisal Document, Report No: 36334 – AR, June 8 2006.



                                                    8
The World Bank has been engaged in the road sector in Argentina for a number of years,
with its efforts fully aligned at the national and provincial levels with the issues of
rehabilitation and maintenance of the road infrastructure as noted above. The Bank has
worked as a partner to Government to enable important interventions on the
infrastructural front (rehabilitation and maintenance on both national and provincial roads,
especially through the use of the now widely renown performance based contracts
(CREMA); as well as on the institutional front (road asset management, road economic
prioritization, financial sustainability, road monitoring , road safety, and other road sector
reform efforts). 3

In the province of Cordoba, Bank efforts continued in the same vein with the
rehabilitation or paving of road segments of the provincial network identified as the main
priority in the short run. In the longer run, it was deemed necessary to identify the reasons
why the road network reached such unacceptable level of deterioration. The focus was on
mitigating or eliminating the effects of a stop-and-go approach, whereby money was
assigned to the provincial road agency, Dirección Provincial de Vialidad (DPV) only
when the economic situation allowed it and funds were available, or whenever urgent
interventions on the road sector couldn’t be postponed any more. Thus, it was agreed
with the Ministry of Finance that the project, in addition to addressing urgent road works,
was to (i) improve the quality of provincial expenditure through better project
management, monitoring and evaluation, and (ii) monitor more closely fiscal space issues
in order to identify potential problems early enough to avoid their consequences on the
infrastructure investment program. In addition, the project would provide technical
assistance to DPV to improve their capacity to prioritize and optimize investments
through the definition of an efficient road network management strategy.

The different activities under the Institutional Strengthening Component intended to
address the above-mentioned issues, with the final objective of ensuring that through an
appropriate fiscal space management strategy and adequate resource allocation for
infrastructure investments, the Provincial Road Network would be kept in good condition
and expanded thanks to the stability of the flows of funds dedicated to its management,
which would prevent constraining the growth prospects of the Province.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The project development objective as stated in the PAD aimed “at improving the
reliability of the Province’s road sector assets and the efficiency of their management as a
means to support the province’s competitiveness and economic growth, by building up
institutional capacity to encourage efficient planning policies and adequate resource
allocation for the rehabilitation and maintenance of the core provincial road network.”

The achievement of the Project’s development objective would be assessed through the
following key and intermediate indicators: (i) percentage of projects in the ACIF’s


3
    See documents for Bank Loans 3611-AR, 4295-Ar, 7242-AR, 7437-AR, 4093-AR and 7301-AR.



                                                 9
portfolio with financial, production, and impact indicators defined and monitored; (ii)
strategic five-year road programs prepared and published; annual performance reports
indicating results achieved by the Province of Córdoba’s agencies, prepared and publicly
disseminated; (iii) road assets preserved with an acceptable roughness (IRI below 3): (iv)
ACIF annual performance reports publicly disseminated; (v) percentage of total paved
network under CREMA-type contracts and road paving contracts; (vi) indicators
measuring road safety conditions (road accidents indices per 1,000 vehicles and mortality
rates on targeted networks); (vii) implementation of a comprehensive road management
program over a target network of 596 km of productive roads (including rehabilitation of
291km, paving of 174km and 424 km maintained under agreed standards) and (vii)
Ministry of Finance’s annual performance reports prepared and publicly disseminated.

Also, a Fiscal Framework was developed with the provincial authorities to assess the
fiscal space for the implementation of the project. The framework, according to the PAD,
was developed as a dynamic tool to ensure that the required fiscal resources were
available to allow the successful implementation of priority infrastructure investments
and asset maintenance, while key parameters to be monitored during project
implementation, basically macro indices emphasizing a gradual reduction in the level of
indebtedness of the province, would enable the detection of developments in the fiscal
accounts that could affect the convergence of the province towards sustainable fiscal and
debt indicators.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification
The above development objectives and key indicators remained unchanged during the
project execution period.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
Multiple stakeholders were expected to benefit from the Project. Defined broadly, the
province as a whole 4 was expected to see indirect benefits, given the project’s positive
impact on competitiveness, employment and economic growth. More specifically, road
users and road transport services would directly benefit from the improvement in key
links with decreased transport costs and upgraded road safety. By improving the
condition of provincial roads, the project also targeted rural communities enhancing
accessibility to social services and markets.

1.5 Original Components
To meet the proposed Development Objective, the three main components as listed in the
PAD were:

Component 1 – Institutional Strengthening (estimated cost US$2.1 million, all Bank-
financed). This component comprised three subcomponents:



4
  Based on the last Census, 8.5 % of the country’s population, 3.304.825 habitants, lives in Cordoba
(INDEC, 2010), and also the Province received twice that figure in tourist visits annually.



                                                10
•   Sub Component 1.1- Institutional strengthening of ACIF: The loan was to help
    strengthening ACIF in areas such as financial and debt management, project
    programming and monitoring, information reporting, etc. The project would finance
    design and implementation activities geared to developing a performance-based
    management system, connecting the ACIF’s M&E system with sector planning and
    budget decisions.

•   Sub Component 1.2- Institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Finance: This
    subcomponent was to involve activities related to coordination structures, information
    systems, monitoring and evaluation, and capacity building in the financial
    administration sector of the Ministry of Finance. This sub-component would include
    activities in three areas: (i) the financial aggregation of public expenditures; (ii) a
    methodology for evaluation of the fiscal impact of contingent liabilities resulting
    from claims against the Province in the administrative instance within the
    infrastructure sector, increasing the Ministry’s response capacity; and (iii)
    strengthening of the budget formulation process.

•   Sub Component 1.3- Institutional Strengthening of DPV and Road Safety: In line with
    the overarching objective of developing a more comprehensive road asset
    management strategy at the provincial level, this component was to support activities
    to strengthen the Provincial Road Agency to meet the demands imposed by the
    carrying out of the extended program of works to be funded by the loan and which
    requires a strong supervision capacity and additional technical staff that the Agency
    does not have at that time. The project was expected to make possible the hiring of
    road engineers, laboratory technicians, topographers for the construction period of the
    works to be financed under the loan. In addition, a subset of low-performing
    “Consorcios Camineros”, 5 located mostly on the economically disadvantaged
    northern parts of the Province, would receive training to improve their management
    and technical capacity, drawing lessons from the highly-rated “Consorcios”, most of
    which are located in the booming agricultural areas. A Road Safety Plan for the
    Directorate of Road Accidents Prevention (DPAT) and for technical staff from
    various municipalities would be implemented, focusing on the CREMA area and in
    the villages crossed by the road segments to be paved under this Project. This Road
    Safety Plan would include the following items: (i) improvements in the way road
    accidents statistical data were collected, monitored and evaluated; (ii) training of
    municipal and DPV's technical staff in geometric designs related to road safety; and
    (iii) road safety education in primary and secondary schools (train-the-trainer
    programs for teachers and awareness raising programs for students).



5
  The "Consorcios Camineros" (created by Provincial Law No. 6,233) are responsible for the maintenance
for primary and secondary non-paved network, and tertiary network. They are micro-cooperatives relying
on the local workers, in charge of near 52,000 km of provincial roads. Their costs are covered by two
specific fiduciary funds, one being the "tasa vial" (percentage of the rural real estate tax), the other being
the "fondo de infraestructura vial" (contribution from the agro-businesses).



                                                     11
Component 2 – Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance through performance based
contracts (estimated cost US$39.5 million of which US$33.5 million would be financed
by the Bank Loan, actual costs, respectively, US$ 45.8 million and US$38.9 million
including contingencies). This component would focus on overcoming a backlog of
deferred maintenance on prioritized sections of the provincial primary network,
especially in the South-East part of the Province. The project would aim to cover a
significant portion of high-priority roads that have not received adequate routine
maintenance and/or the structure of which has reached the end of its useful life and needs
to be fully reconstructed. This component included the execution of three performance-
based contracts over approximately three sub-networks of provincial roads located in the
province of Córdoba covering a total length of 437.94 km (representing 11.4% of the
province total paved network). The rehabilitation works were expected to cover
approximately 66% of the total length to be contracted and account in general for 80% of
the total contract amount, the remaining 20% being assigned to maintenance operations.
During Project implementation, the budget allocated to the maintenance strategy and the
condition of the network that would be maintained with local funds would be monitored,
in order to ensure that the level of service provided to the road users matched to a
reasonable extent the standards achieved over the remaining part of the network that was
to be improved and financed under the loan. It was agreed with the province within the
PRP II framework, that the annual maintenance program as designed or executed would
ensure, as a minimum, that during the Project implementation period no potholes
remained open, no edge break occurred between the pavement and the shoulders and that
all horizontal marking and vertical signs were adequately restored, in order to comply
with the most critical road safety requirements. Suitable performance indicators were set
in order to monitor compliance with agreed targets.

Component 3 – Road Paving (estimated cost US$42.2 million of which US$29.5 million
would be financed by the Bank Loan, actual costs, respectively, US$ 48.0 million and
US$33.6 million including contingencies). Through this component, the Bank would
continue supporting paving investments on selected segments of the Province’s road
network that are crucial for provincial productivity. In these cases, the province would be
required to design adequate maintenance strategies to ensure the sustainability of the
proposed interventions. This component included the execution of works over a total
length of 185.68 km.

1.6 Revised Components
Project components remained unchanged during the execution of the project.

1.7 Other significant changes
In 2009, physical targets were reduced to account for cost increases. These changes were
agreed on aide memories as part of the supervision missions and preparation of an
additional financing operation, which was then dropped due to lack of support by federal
government. These modifications to the result framework were reflected in the operations
portal. Late in 2012 the provincial authorities and the Bank agreed on a one year
extension of the loan closing date, to October 31, 2013, in order to (i) further the major
governance agenda supported by the project by completing the procurement and



                                            12
installation of priority information technology equipment and systems related to the
Province's efforts for increased transparency, accountability, and citizen responsiveness.
This includes procurement of critical database servers for the Government’s SuperCentro
initiative that is a pioneer government-citizen platform being advanced in the Province of
Cordoba in collaboration with major technology partners; and (ii) further the road safety
agenda that has been of high impact and a model for other provinces by the procurement
of priority road safety equipment.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry 6
At entry, the project preparation, design and quality was rated as satisfactory for the
following reasons:

(i) The project was fully in line with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) 7
discussed by the Board on April 15, 2004, which contemplated the improvement of
infrastructure assets as key to sustained economic growth and mitigating the severity of
poverty. The project was also in line with other then on-going projects in the
infrastructure sector, including the road sector, aimed at preventing the deterioration of
key infrastructure in Argentina, and improving infrastructure service delivery to enhance
competitiveness and foster economic growth.

(ii) Lessons learned from other projects were incorporated. In particular: (a) building
on the experience accumulated through the Provincial Roads Projects I and II, the
technical solutions and priorities of the civil works component were, with the use of
the Highway Development and Management Model (HDM) optimized and justified
from a network management perspective, taking into account existing resource
constraints. 8 (b) The project financed road rehabilitation and maintenance works through
CREMA contracts, a modality in which long-term payment obligations become legally
binding on the Province and as a result, the budgetary process gives these contracts a
higher priority than other expenditures. This approach reduced the risk of irregular
resource allocation to the sector. (c) Project design recognized the key importance of



6
  The Eighth Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA8) FY 2006-2007 rated the Overall Assessment as
Satisfactory, and, in particular, project preparation and Bank inputs and processes as Highly Satisfactory,
noting that project identification and preparation were done in record time and with cost-effectiveness.
Source: QEA8 Final Report, dated May 17, 2007. The project was then again assessed by the Quality
Assessment of Lending Portfolio (QALP 2) exercise in June 2010, giving the project a rating of Highly
Satisfactory under Quality of Design.
7
  Country Partnership Strategy for the Republic of Argentina 2004-2006, January 29, 2004 (Report.
No.27340-AR).
8
  Despite these achievements, provinces still have a propensity to continue relying on overlay design
manuals (i.e., the AASHTO Guide) that sometimes result in overly conservative and costly solutions, as
opposed to using the HDM Model for project overlay design with prioritization of solutions based on a
solid economic indicator (i.e. maximizing NPV/Cost ratio).



                                                   13
routine maintenance on network condition and contemplated that in addition to
minimum budget allocations, a series of results-oriented targets would be monitored
during supervision to ensure that at least three critical variables that affect road safety
were dealt with effectively: (i) potholes; (ii) horizontal and vertical signaling; and (iii)
edge break between pavement and shoulders.

(iii) Institutional arrangements for project execution were clearly defined. Possible
conflicts between the implementing entity, the Agencia Córdoba de Inversión y
Financiamento (ACIF), which administrates and executes all programs financed by
multilateral agencies and the Dirección Provincial de Vialidad (DPV) with jurisdiction
over the 58,000km of provincial roads, were avoided through a clear and comprehensive
delimitation of each agency responsibility as follows:

                             Project Roles and Accountability Line
                       Function                                        Accountable
      Promoter. Responsible for making the                Governor of Cordoba
      investment decision
      Ownership. Strategic management of                  President of ACIF
      project, accountable for the success of the
      Project
      Project director/manager. Day to day                Project Unit manager (from ACIF)
      management of the owner’s interest in the
      Project
      Procurement. Responsible for procurement            Project Procurement Leader Chief (from
      under the project.                                  ACIF)
      Supervision of consulting services under            Ministry of Finance
      Sub Component 1.2
      Contract     supervisor   (the   Engineer).         DPV
      Responsible for the supervision of contracts
      for construction works and technical adviser
      for the project road components.

(iv) Adequate mechanisms to address the impact of inflation on project costs were
established. In particular, past experience indicated that in anticipation of inflation,
contractors presented higher bids to cover potential cost premiums that would otherwise
not be paid. The eligibility for full price adjustment payments rested on surpassing a 10
percent threshold established in bidding documents at the time for any cost increases.
Learning from these experiences the project included, among other modifications to the
bidding documents, the elimination of the 10 percent threshold requirement.

(v) Project design included the introduction of highly comprehensive mid-term and
final impact surveys, in an attempt to bring extra depth to the assessment of the
perceived needs of the communities served by the project and a stronger emphasis on
results-focused project management.

The less than highly satisfactory rating is due to the fact that the PAD emphasis on the
project merits to be derived from the inclusion of fiscal space issues (PAD paras. 18, 19,
30) did not fully find its way into project components or the monitoring activities. The
exception was the monitoring of a series of macroeconomic indicators (mostly related to


                                                     14
fiscal space and the reduction of debt). 9 This ICR finds that, with the benefit of hindsight,
it would have been advisable to contemplate fiscal space issues more closely related to
road sector financing and particularly to the sustainability of comprehensive performance
based road maintenance efforts that, as we will be seen later, might be now jeopardized
by lack of funds.

2.2 Implementation

The Cordoba Provincial Road Infrastructure Project was approved by the Board of the
Bank on July 11, 2006 and became effective on December 17, 2006. The original closing
date was December 31, 2012. The main issues/aspects of project implementation that
deserve attention are:
(a) Civil Works
Cost increases, financial gap and reduced project size. Project implementation took
off rapidly but as the first few contracts were awarded, it was clear that the actual prices
of civil works far exceeded original estimates and the financing gap would require a
reduction of the civil works targets. This situation of cost overruns mirrored the high
inflation that plagued the country with cumulative inflation in the road sector reaching
100 percent over the period 2006 to 2011. This in turn was reflected in a soaring of road
construction prices as contractors priced in inflation risks in their unit prices when
bidding for works. Many road works contracts almost doubled in price during this time,
though ex-post analysis indicated that the Cordoba road project costs were at the lower
bound of the price spectrum (even with the cost overruns).

To achieve the original physical targets (i.e. number of kms of roads to be paved and
rehabilitated), the project team started the process of obtaining additional financing in the
amount US$97 million. The Concept Note for the proposed operation dated May 21,
2008 explained that the financing gap was caused by: “(a) an increase in subprojects’
costs due to an annual inflation rate of about 20% in the construction sector; (b)
insufficient design detail in some subprojects and consequently weak cost estimations at
appraisal resulting in an increase in the cost of those subprojects at tender; and (c)
delays between the completion of the designs and actual tendering which resulted in
further deterioration of the road networks to be rehabilitated, not least given the high
traffic volumes driven in part by the commodities boom.” Also, a very important
contributing factor to the underestimation of the costs can be attributed to Federal
Government policies that resulted in (i) DPV using official price indexes for their cost
estimates that were consistently below actual inflation; and (ii) the inflation rate of the
peso was not followed by proportional changes in the prevailing exchange rate, thus
increasing the dollar cost of the project.


9
  These monitoring efforts responded to the fact that the National Government financial assistance
programs to provinces were incorporated into the framework of the then recently enacted Federal Fiscal
Responsibility Law (Ley Federal de Responsabilidad Fiscal No 25.917, FRL) which set general rules in
terms of fiscal performance and public debt sustainability. The FRL was abolished in 2009.



                                                 15
Discussions for obtaining additional resources dragged from 2008 to 2011 with the
proposed new operation experiencing during that period important changes both in size
and scope. Meanwhile the fiscal situation of the country and of the province started to
deteriorate. Finally the central government withdrew its support for the proposed
additional financing and the civil works component could not be restored to its original
size.

 The project ended up financing the paving of 124.98 km of provincial roads at a total
cost of US$ 50.5 million as compared to the 174.26 km at a cost of US$ 42.2 million
envisaged at appraisal. With respect to the maintenance works under the CREMA
modality, the impact of the underestimated costs was even greater: the project covered
the rehabilitation and maintenance of 136.93 km at a cost of US$ 42.4 million or only
32.3% of the 424km expected at appraisal at a cost of US$ 34.5 million. Paving works
were executed at an average cost of US$ 0.40 million/km, as compared to the contracted
US$ 0.33 million per km. The difference is mostly explained by, again, a local inflation
rate that far exceeded the rate of devaluation of the peso vis a vis the dollar. Nevertheless,
these costs are in general less than half the average cost of civil works carried out in other
projects financed by international agencies in Argentina, which shows the commitment of
the provincial government for ensuring the competitiveness of the bidding process. 10

Civil Works Highlights. For the purpose of this report it is worthwhile to single out from
the civil works component the experiences related to the paving of the Los Rearte-Villa
Berna road section because of its potential environmental and social impact.

The paving of the 27.2 km road from Los Reartes to Villa Berna facilitated the access to
the town of La Cumbrecita, one of the most cherished touristic attractions in the province.
Tourism started in earnest in 1937 with the first visitors making their way to the hidden
town. Around 1940, the first private homes were built and the town slowly acquired the
Tyrol character that defines it today. Populated by central European immigrants, the town
is focused on eco-tourism. The communal authorities declared the zone a protected
environment and as of 1996 a "Pedestrian Town". Visitors must park their cars in the
parking lot before the town entrance and then walk along the stone-paved streets. To a
great extent the charm of the town was protected by the difficult terrain and poor state of
its access roads. The improvement of the accessed road posed a real challenge to identify
and mitigate the potential environmental and social impact caused by a dramatic increase
in the inflow of tourists (which actually had an increase of 450%, with the number of
visitors going from 80,000 in 2004 to 370,000 in 2011). The Government of Cordoba
developed and implemented under the project the necessary safeguards to protect the
town, which included very active community participation, strong coordination between
the provincial environmental and tourism agencies, land use surveys and more recently a
comprehensive urban development master plan. These activities were closely overviewed


10
  Road Construction Costs in Argentina, V. Raffo & E. Travaglianti, LAC Transport Unit Working Paper,
February 2014.



                                                 16
by the Bank, which provided specific technical support on social and environmental
management during the entire process. The implementation of this project component
could be a good example of “best practice.”
(b) Institutional Development
In general, the agreed activities under the institutional development components were
promptly executed and completed early in the project implementation period, mostly with
the government’s own financial resources and in house capabilities. In particular:

Institutional Strengthening of the Ministry of Finance. Under this component the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) with its own resources and regular staff strengthened
information systems in the areas of financial aggregation of public expenditures and
budget formulation, allowing for an enhanced monitoring of provincial fiscal indicators,
as well as improved governance and transparency through the systematic dissemination
and publication of budgetary and financial information and fiscal indicators. The Ministry
implemented the Sistema Integrado de Agregacion Financiera which has been developed
as part of a process of reform of the provincial financial administration system. This
system, among other benefits, incorporates and coordinates various normative
frameworks, improves the quality of financial information available, and provides timely
and adequate information on the fiscal and budgetary indicators. 11 In 2010, the Ministry
of Finance published its first Sustainability Report, 12 with validation from the Global
Reporting Initiative, with a focus on transparency and citizen engagement for enhanced
public expenditure performance. The Ministry of Finance has recently published its
second Sustainability Report for the years 2011 and 2012. 13

Institutional Strengthening of ACIF. Activities agreed under this component were
successfully completed at a total cost of about US$ 2.5 million of which about US$ 1.5
million were allocated to the purchase of the above mentioned servers for the
SuperCentro. The component focused on strengthening through individual consultants the
organizational and managerial capabilities of ACIF in the areas of project management,
procurement and financial management. In particular the agency’s financial aggregation
systems was improved through the implementation of the Sistema Integrado de
Agregacion Financiera (SIAF) linked to the MOF's financial aggregation system, and its
internal control systems and sub-project monitoring systems linking monitoring
indicators and reports to results. The component also included training workshops for
ACIF’s staff and for the Unidades Tecnicas Ejecutoras Sectoriales (UTES), the technical
units from different sectors (e.g. education, roads, environment, etc.), and the acquisition
of information equipment.




11
   This information is readily available on the web: http://transparencia.cba.gov.ar/
12
   The Ministry of Finance of Cordoba is the first public entity in Argentina to publish this report. Available
at http://transparencia.cba.gov.ar/Archivos/2.pdf. See also: http://prensa.cba.gov.ar/economia/elettore-
presento-el-reporte-de-sustentabilidad-2010/
13
   Available at http://multimedia.cba.gov.ar/web/Reporte_Sustentabilidad_2011_2012_Finanzas.pdf



                                                      17
Institutional Strengthening of DPV. This component, which was completed at a total
cost of about US$ 0.5 million, had two distinct elements. The first one, the strengthening
of DPV’s supervision capacity for the implementation of the project financed the hiring
of road engineers, laboratory technicians and topographers for the construction period of
the works under the loan. In addition, a subset of low-performing “Consorcios
Camineros”, located mostly on the economically disadvantaged northern parts of the
Province received training with DPV own resources to improve their management and
technical capacity, drawing lessons from the highly-rated “Consorcios”, most of which
are located in the booming agricultural areas of the country.

Road Safety: The second element of the assistance to DPV was in the area of road safety,
which also involved engagement and cooperation with the Directorate of Road Accidents
Prevention (DPAT) within the Ministry of Government. The dismal rate of traffic
accidents in Argentina became a major public opinion issue. Strong pressure from the
civil society prompted national and provincial authorities to try to address the problem
through adequate engineering, education and enforcement policies.

The Bank became a key partner in these efforts through road safety components in AR
7301 PCP II, AR 7398, AR 7861, and the subject project. Many Bank experts overlapped
in the supervision of these projects, creating a productive synergy that helped the
Province of Cordoba to develop and implement a successful road safety plan. Teams in
these projects coordinated their activities (particularly with the PCPII project) to secure
two grants from the Global Road Safety Facility to finance: (i) an iRAP (International
Road Assessment Program) survey that took place in October 2008 and was presented to
the provincial authorities, the academia and the private sector in a seminar that took place
in March 2009; and (ii) a Capacity Assessment Review following a safe system approach
and the WB Guidelines for Country Engagement. 14 As part of these activities, a group of
international road safety experts conducted an assessment of the existing institutional
capacity in the area of road safety in Cordoba and contributed to the design of the
mentioned action plan in which specific activities/measures/investments were identified.
In this context, the Province created in 2008 the Permanent Road Safety Working Group
to design state policies and to coordinate future actions from provincial and municipal
entities. The group comprises representatives from the de Defensoría del Pueblo,
Ministerio de Gobierno, Dirección Provincial de Transito, Dirección de Defensa Civil,
Policía de la Provincia de Córdoba, Dirección de Transito de la Municipalidad de
Córdoba y Hospital de Urgencias. In addition to these measures, the Traffic Safety Law
was enacted in 2009.

These significant efforts on the road safety front led to important gains in reducing the
mortality rate on provincial and national roads in Cordoba (with a 47% drop between
2008 and 2012 in the number of deaths per 100,000 vehicles). Project funds for this
component were mostly directed to the purchase of alcohol breathalyzer for the


14
  Improving global road safety: Towards equitable and sustainable development. Guidelines for country
road safety engagement, Tony Bliss & Veronica Raffo, World Bank, 2014.



                                                 18
Provincial Highway Patrol (Policia Caminera), IT equipment for DPAT for the
processing of road safety data and fines, and mobile weighbridges for DPV and the
Highway Patrol for the control of traffic loads, a problem that has been identified as a
major safety hazard.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The adequacy of design of the monitoring indicators to measure the project achievements
was mixed. They were in general precise and easily measurable when related to the civil
works component of the project and on the agreements on acceptable levels of road
condition. That is not the case of most of the indicators related to institutional
development. In particular the PDO indicator related to the quality of ACIF’s portfolio
was misplaced since ACIF is basically an executing agency with little discretion on the
merits of the projects they implement. It would have been more adequate to link the
objective of efficient allocation of resources to the quality of the whole investment and
maintenance program of the province under DPV. On the bright side, the financial
indicators were periodically monitored. Most of them, particularly the important ones
related to the rate of indebtedness of the Province, were consistently on target.

The institutional development component was realistic in its expectations of
consolidating the basic building blocks for a performance-based culture (e.g. measuring
road conditions, using the HDM for network wide planning purposed, developing
medium term investment and maintenance strategic plans, measuring the impact of traffic
safety policies, incorporating performance based contracts for road maintenance, and
increasing the transparency of the budgetary process). However, a more conservative
approach would have helped to establish a clear distinction between what can be
achieved during the life of the project and those outcomes that would materialize in the
longer term. Both ACIF and DPV (as is the case of all the provincial administration) are
now more responsive to transparency in budget reporting and information although still
some steps away from performance based management.

Responsibility for monitoring and evaluation rested on ACIF with the collaboration of the
Ministry of Finance, the DPAT and DPV. Meticulous and informative progress reports
were prepared on a semi-annual basis and a well-defined mid-term evaluation involving a
comprehensive survey of the impact of the civil works component was carried out in
2010. Key principal findings of this mid-term evaluation were: (i) 100% of interviewees
expressed a high level of satisfaction with the project; (ii) producers in the area of
influence of the project have benefited from the project due to improved road conditions,
with 100% noting positive economic impact, with reduced vehicle operating costs and
more reliable access to market; (iii) employment generation opportunities have arisen
with new local commercial and agro-industrial centers; (iv) increases in both residential
and catering businesses, as well as in tourism were recorded in La Cumbrecita area; (v)
increases in the price of land of between 100% and 200%; (vi) access to 23 health centers
and 23 education centers has been improved with a more permanent presence of medical
personnel in the former; (vii) improved mobility and access with traffic increase in the
order of 130% especially in heavy goods vehicles and more frequent public transport,
including those that provide leisure trips for local residents; (viii) improved road safety



                                            19
conditions with vertical and horizontal markings, and better road surface riding
conditions; and (ix) positive results in the maintenance regime under the CREMA
modality. It should be noted that the inclusion of the survey in the monitoring and
evaluation design provided a valuable contribution that was well appreciated by the
Borrower. It is being considered a valuable piece of information that brings to light the
beneficiaries’ perspectives and problems that cannot be captured by a quantitative
analysis.

Finally, the Bank supervision team regularly carried out technical and cost reviews to
ensure efficiency in resources utilization. 15 Overall, the monitoring and evaluation
aspects of the project are rated as satisfactory.


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1 Procurement
The project had fully-comprehensive procurement supervision during the implementation
through both, prior and post review. As a result of this supervision, the project kept a
Satisfactory rating for procurement during the whole implementation.

Post review missions were carried out on FY08, FY09, FY10 and FY14, based on the
number of contracts signed during those periods. These revisions did not reveal any
serious procurement issue and concluded that procurement processes and / or
administration of contracts by the Borrower were performed with good quality,
transparency and required minor corrective actions by the Bank. The reports also
highlighted the appropriate use of standard bidding documents approved at the beginning
of the project, the accomplishment of the provisions agreed on procurement in the Loan
Agreement and the regular update of the Procurement Plan. Nevertheless, these reviews
included observations oriented to reduce the length of the evaluation periods, strengthen
the procurement function and improve the implementation of consultants’ selection
procurement processes.

Despite the proven record of efficiency in handling procurement matters, the OPRC
decided to declare a miss-procurement in February 2009 for an ICB for "Las Caleras -
Alpa Corral" Civil Works contract for which the project had requested to reject all the
bids, arguing that they exceeded significantly the estimated budget. OPRC disagreed with
the official argument about the estimated budget but granted an exception to the
cancellation of the loan proceeds based on the Project’s background. 16


15
 Road Construction Costs in Argentina, V. Raffo & E. Travaglianti, The World Bank, LAC Transport
Unit Working Paper, February 2014.
16
   It should be noted that bidding for the Las Caleras-Alpa Corral road works was carried out at a time in
which the project funds were fully committed. The works were going to be financed under the additional
financing operation that did not materialize.



                                                   20
2.4.2 Financial Management
The project had in general a satisfactory FM arrangement in compliance with Bank
requirements. However, a 2009 review identified moderate shortcomings such as: (i)
significant delay in the submission to the Bank of the Interim Financial Reports; (ii) delay
in the hiring process of the external auditor; (iii) turnover of key FM staff; (iv) time lag in
the justification of withdrawals from the DA and in particular; in the justification of petty
cash expenses; and (v) internal audit vacancies that had not been filled during the
previous two years. Although these shortcomings did not refer to accountability issues
and did not prevent the project FM system from providing reliable information for
managing and monitoring the project implementation, ACIF’s was requested to fulfill an
agreed action plan. Due to these findings, the FM performance for the project was
downgraded to Moderately Satisfactory (MS) and returned to satisfactory once ACIF
implemented the agreed action plan. Financial statements audits were mostly received by
the Bank on time with audit opinions on Financial Statements and Special Opinions
either Unqualified or Qualified-Exception, but with no significant issues. Audit reports
were reviewed and found acceptable through the entire project implementation period.
Final Project audit report for the period January to October 31, 2013 is not yet due and is
expected to be received by the Bank on or before April 30, 2014 the due date provided in
the Loan Agreement.

2.4.3 Safeguards
Social Safeguards
The Project has complied with the OP 4.12, the social safeguard triggered at the
preparation phase. At that time (2006), a Land Acquisition Plan (Plan de Adquisición de
Predios) was prepared, in order to address private land to be taken by the Project. That
Plan acknowledged the voluntary donation of land in retribution for the road
improvement, which has been the usual system applied by DPV at Cordoba Province.
Land donors expressed satisfaction with the results of the projects and gains, in terms of
improved access and connectivity, reduced travel times and vehicle operating costs, and
expansion of regional productivity. It should be noted that (a) the landowners who
donated land chose to do so. They had the option to request the expropriation of their
property. In fact, one landowner did so and was compensated as part of an amicable
agreement with the Government (avenimiento); 17 (b) a total of 102 properties were
affected by RoW acquisition. The loss of land suffered by the landowners was minor. In
all cases, the land taken represents less than 7% of the total area of the property affected.
The affected properties were large (between 500 and 10,000 hectares); (c) landowners
received compensation in kind (new fencing, improved entrances, etc.); and (d) RoW
acquisition did not cause physical displacement (relocation). The only potential
relocation case (the relocation of informal vendors operating near the bridge over Río Los
Reartes) was avoided. In this case the project managed to avoid economic displacement
of informal vendors, by means of changing the design and location of a new bridge over
the river Los Reartes.


17
  OP 4.12 does not apply to the land donations that took place in the context of this project, given their
voluntary nature. The policy only applies to the single expropriation case.



                                                   21
      BOX 1 - Summary of survey to assess the impact of the paving of the access road
                                   in La Cumbrecita

La Cumbrecita is an alpine road in the Calamuchita valley accessed through a mountain road. The
paving of the road brought about an important increase in residents and visitors. In October 2012
the Bank interviewed major stakeholders to evaluate the impact of the road paving. The
interviews were carried on with several neighbors and residents and the following authorities:
    • The President and Director of Tourism of La Cumbrecita
    • The Director of the Health Center
    • The Head of the High School
    • The President of the Water and Electricity Cooperative
    • The Deputy Police Chief
    • The President of the Board of the Fire Department
    • Owners of developments of tourist bungalows
    • The President of the Development Association of Villa Berna
There was unanimous coincidence on the benefits of the project not only for the touristic area of
La Cumbrecita, but also for the area of influence of the road, which includes Villa Berna, Intiyaco
and Villa Alpina.

The paving project brought important development to the region as proved by the following
statistics:
     • The number of visitors increased by 450%, from 80,000 in 2004 to 370,000 in 2011. The
          length of their permanence also increased
     • The number of beds increased by 100% in the same period, from 350 to 700, mostly in
          bungalows
     • The demand for electricity increased by 112,5% between 2005 and 2012

In addition there has been growth and improvements in the staffing of schools, health centers and
police department because of the increased accessibility for members living outside of La
Cumbrecita to access the town. For the local residents the project made possible to increase the
frequency of trips to the city of Villa General Belgrano, previously limited to one trip per week
for shopping. This also facilitated the derivation of accident victims and sick people to the larger
health facilities.

The dramatic increase in tourism required the adoption of different measures, including:
   • Changes in the Urban Code to restrict urbanization to 1450 meters above sea level and
       require minimum lots of 2000 m2 (5000m2 for bungalow developments)
   • Doubling the capacity for capturing and storing water
   • Introduction of solid waste management policies to increment waste separation at the origin
       plus transference to local plant before final transference to the city of Cordoba
   • Development of a car parking space outside of the town and implementation of a system of
       minibuses to take the tourists to town to reduce traffic congestion and other negative
       externalities
   • Together with the above changes La Cumbrecita also benefitted from (i) its pedestrian only
       character; (ii)its condition of Natural Reserve for Multiple Uses; and (iii) its condition of
       terminal destination (not through), which facilitates visitors control




                                                22
Environmental Safeguards
The Project included a series of environmental and social instruments that were
developed during project preparation and implementation: Environmental and Social
Management Framework, environmental evaluations of all sub-projects, and Pliego
General de Especificaciones Técnicas Ambientales. The Project involved road
improvements, rehabilitation and maintenance works along existing provincial road
alignments. The Project has been qualified as “Category B”, following the Operational
Bank Policy OP 4.01. The different project sites have none been close to natural habitats
or environmentally sensitive areas. Only one, the bridge over the Intiyaco river in the Los
Reartes-Villa Berna segment, was on a sensitive landscape, and required special issues of
public participation and environmental restoration (including provision of drainage works,
slope stabilization measures, proper disposal of spoil materials, and reforestation). These
measures should continue to be monitored in the short and medium term to ensure their
effective implementation. The PMAyS was developed in line with the Bank’s policies
based in the following operational directives: OP 4.01 BM Environmental Evaluation, OP
4.04 BM on Natural Habitat, OP 4.12 BM de Involuntary Resettlements, and OP 17.5
BM on Public Disclosure.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
No further operation is currently foreseen in the province of Cordoba, except for the
completion of CREMA contracts under execution as part of the Provincial Roads Project
II. CREMA contracts have the advantage of committing funds upfront for routine
maintenance over an extended period of time instead of depending on stop-and-go
funding for maintenance. The Cordoba Provincial Directorate of Highways has been
vested in its own road maintenance contracts known as “contratos de cobertura”, area
maintenance contracts awarded to contractors to provide maintenance services on a
certain number of kms of road covering stretches of roads within a defined locality.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The project objectives remain highly relevant to current priorities, also in line with the
2010–2012 Country Partnership Strategy, which continues to focus on the same three
pillars of the previous CAS, particularly under its first pillar (Sustainable Growth with
Equity), whose specific objectives include: (i) upgrading Argentina’s infrastructure to
address potential bottlenecks to competitiveness, and underpin medium-term growth and
poverty alleviation; (ii) improving competitiveness, quality, and exports of agriculture
and livestock production; and (iii) addressing a growing problem of resource degradation.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The project development objective as stated in the PAD aimed “at improving the
reliability of the Province’s road sector assets and the efficiency of their management as
a means to support the province’s competitiveness and economic growth, by building up
institutional capacity to encourage efficient planning policies and adequate resource
allocation for the rehabilitation and maintenance of the core provincial road network.”


                                           23
Overall Rating: Satisfactory
The project achieved the objective of improving the reliability of the road sector through
the fulfilling the main PDO indicator: the Province having 100% of its network in a good
or fair condition, with an IRI of less than 3. The second PDO indicator, related to the
ACIF portfolio was also achieved, although as it been noted above, it did not bear direct
relationship with planning process of the resource allocation management for the road
network. In terms of the systematic strategic planning of road programs, the preparation
and dissemination of performance based reports and the increase in the use of CREMA
contracts were the linchpin of the project to “efficient planning policies and efficient
resource allocations”. As required, a five-year road investment plan was developed at the
initial stages of the project. However, in a context of high inflation long term planning
became difficult and DPV is now preparing yearly plans. Both ACIF and DPV prepare
budgets that are sent to the Ministry of Finance and published in the Ministry’s web page.
With respect to the multi-year CREMA contracts, both the current difficulty in making
long term commitments plus the institutional inertia for change has inclined the
government in the direction of the use of the contratos de cobertura to ensure adequate
maintenance levels and performance standards.

With respect to the intermediate objectives, (i) both the road agencies (ACIF and DPV)
disclose their activities to the control agencies and their budgets appear under the
Ministry of Finance website which publicly disseminates all relevant information related
to the budget and its execution; this represents a sound improvement in transparency and
governance and an important step towards the implementation of a performance based
culture (ii) a sound Road Safety Plan was developed and is being successfully
implemented with an outstanding impact in the reduction of accidents and fatalities; and
(iii) roads were rehabilitated and paved (albeit with a reduced length) and the rest of the
network was maintained within agreed standards. These actions are having important
positive social impacts in terms of reduction in transport costs, land values and increase
in tourism.

The Project Impact Evaluation works undertaken in 2010 as part of the mid-term review,
and then again in 2013 as Final Impact Evaluation, noted the project as having significant
benefits for end beneficiaries (agricultural producers, transporters, resident target
populations, other local companies and businesses). It was stated that both producers
from the intervened areas as well as neighboring producers that have chosen to use the
roads as a consequence of the improvement and upgrading (the Impact Evaluation shows
a 28 percent reduction in freight transport costs per ton/km). In similar vein, a significant
number of local companies and industries have employed more workers in order to meet
the increased demand for services (restaurants, tourism, and retailing). Land values have
improved greatly in most of the intervened areas. The project has resulted in better and
more fluent accessibility to hospitals, schools and other urban areas, thus improving the
living conditions of the targeted population. Last but not least, road safety indicators have
improved considerably as a result of project and provincial road safety agency
implementation efforts.




                                             24
Based on the above considerations the ICR rates the achievement of the project
development objectives as satisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency
The DPV has performed an estimated ex-post economic evaluation of the road
rehabilitation and maintenance works (CREMA contract) and the paving works executed
during the project life. The ex-post evaluation follows the same methodology used for the
original evaluation at appraisal: both were done using the Highway Design and
Maintenance Standards Model (HDM), which simulates life cycle conditions and costs
and provides economic decision criteria for road construction and maintenance activities.
HDM was used for estimating the net benefits of each project in terms of reductions in
vehicle operating costs, passenger travel time, and road maintenance expenditures.

 DPV estimated maintenance and rehabilitation costs in financial and economic terms
(net of taxes), economic costs being on average 70 percent of financial costs; and defined
vehicle fleet characteristics and unit costs for six vehicle classes, economic road user
costs being on average 70 percent of financial costs. Typical economic road user costs as
a function of roughness (IRI), road user costs composition, and traffic composition are
given below; as well as relationship between the average vehicle fleet economic road user
costs and road roughness.

The traffic growth rates are based on a study conducted by the DPV. For road paving
projects, the traffic growth rates considered at appraisal were: 3-5 percent for light
vehicles for the entire evaluation period; and 5 percent until 2008 and 3 percent thereafter
for medium, heavy, and articulated trucks. For the CREMA projects, the traffic growth
rate used at appraisal for the contract period (2007-2011) was 3 percent from the date of
project start. This rate was based on the evolution of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) over
the previous ten years and it is commonly used for the economic evaluation of road
projects. For the ex-post evaluation, actual traffic counts carried out by DPV annually
were used until 2013 traffic and a future growth rate of 3% per year was estimated for the
remainder of the life of the projects.

The ex-post economic evaluation of all road projects yielded a positive economic return.
The road rehabilitation and maintenance project (CREMA) yields a Net Present Value of
US$ 6.09 million at a discount rate of 12 percent and an Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
of 18.24 percent as compared to the 16.35 percent expected at appraisal. In the case of the
five paving contracts, the program yielded an estimated ex-post NPV of US$118.56
million and an EER of 43.30 percent, as compared to the 25.94 percent expected at
appraisal. The higher than expected returns can be explained by actual traffic volumes
that are well above those estimated at appraisal and that, as shown below, this impact was
higher in the paving sub-projects than in the CREMA sub-project. All paving sections
had rates of return above 12 percent. They ranged from 75.1 percent for the Despeñadero-
Monte Ralo- Rio Tercero sub-project to 18.7 percent for the Los Zorros-La Playosa sub-
project.

In addition, the cost efficiency and cost effectiveness of the CREMAs when compared to
conventional unit price contracts was demonstrated by a specific empirical study that


                                            25
confirmed that the system as being both efficient and effective: efficiency gains were
estimated to be in the order of 24 percent due to the following: (i) no cost overruns
resulting from variation orders is possible under the CREMAs; (ii) the CREMA
incorporates for the same lump price a number of additional features that are not
contemplated in unit price contracts (or paid separately), such as the carrying out of the
detailed engineering design by the Contractor with a comprehensive auto-quality control
of the works, the implementation of a traffic and axle-load monitoring system during the
entire contract period, etc; (iii) CREMA contracts improve effectiveness by committing
maintenance funds over a longer and more sustainable time period (five years); and (iv)
CREMA contracts are also more efficient than traditional contracts since the contractor is
responsible for defects over a longer time frame, and hence road users benefit from better
riding conditions over a long time, and road agencies end up with a more efficient use of
scarce public resources. 18 The noted empirical study was further deepened using HDM
Model runs that showed CREMAs as being effective and efficient alternatives that
optimally address the project life cycle costs and benefits over a 20-years horizon (See
more details on the comparison between CREMA contracts and contratos de cobertura in
Cordoba in Annex 2).

Finally, it should be noted that the increased in US dollar costs that affected the size of
the project was mostly due to an inflation rate that exceeded the rate of devaluation of the
peso vis-à-vis the dollar. However, the nominal increase of domestic prices had similar
impact both in the costs and in the benefits of the investments, thus preserving the
economic merits of the projects. The latter was in fact increased by the unexpected
growth in traffic brought about by the high economic growth experienced by Argentina
during the early years of the project.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the above, the overall outcome rating is considered as satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The Project impact evaluation endeavored to look into the project impacts beyond the
norm of pure cost-benefit economic analyses typically undertaken for road projects.
However, the difficulties in undertaking such an exercise were constrained by the
difficulties in establishing credible counterfactuals, and making the necessary attributions
of project investments without the bias of selection/placement, and contamination effects.
In principle, the 2010 household survey undertaken at the national level presents



18
 Performance-Based Road Contracts (CREMA). A review of fifteen years experience. 1996-2010, M.
Marcela Silva and Gerard Liautaud, The World Bank, Transport Paper 36, September 2011.



                                             26
important results for comparison purposes at the Cordoba provincial level while the
project impact evaluation provides results at the departmental level.

According to the 2010 national household survey, the province of Cordoba is noted as
having 8.2 percent of the Argentine population, with a 48.6 percent male and 51.4 percent
female distribution by gender. The province made important gains on the key indicator of
the percentage of household members with unmet basic needs, falling from 13 percent in
2001 to 8.7 percent in 2010; while similar numbers for the nation as a whole fell from
17.7 percent to 12.5 percent respectively. There were also gains in terms of reductions in
illiteracy rates from 2.1 percent in 2001 to 1.5 percent in 2010, with national statistics
falling from 2.6 percent to 1.9 percent in the two years respectively.

Important benefits have been noted at the micro-level. For example, the paving of the
road section Los Reartes-Villa Berna brought about significant benefits as demonstrated
in the statistics below:

   •   Visitors: Increase of over 360 percent, from 80,000 in 2004 to 370,000 in 2011.
   •   Beds: Increase of 100 percent, from 350 to 700.
   •   Electrical energy demand: grew 112.5 percent, between 2005 and 2012.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The Project collaboration has had important benefits in terms of driving institutional
reform agenda for road asset management (including road inventory and condition data
collection, road economic decision prioritization, monitoring of project costs, e-
governance platform for citizen accountability and reporting, road maintenance practices,
social and environmental management strengthening, axle load control and road safety).
With regards to the latter, important benefits have been achieved with road fatalities
reducing some 42 percent between 2008 and 2012. Other provinces are trying to learn
from Cordoba about its institutional efforts in reducing road crash fatalities, and victims.
These efforts are complementary to Bank work collaborating with the Argentina National
Road Safety Agency under a separate road safety stand-alone project.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

As part of the Mid-Term and End-of-Project Impact Assessment study two surveys were
carried out in the influence area of the project. An opinion poll to the beneficiaries of the
projects was conducted on May 2013. A Stakeholder Consultation Workshop and public
dissemination event was carried out in Cordoba City on July 10, 2013 to present the
results of the End-of-Project Impact Assessment Study.

Participants included authorities of the Government of Cordoba form the Ministry of
Planning, Investment and Financing and the Secretary of Innovation and Management
Monitoring; officials and staff of the Cordoba’s Agency for Investment and Financing;
and officials from the Provincial Directorate of Highways and the Directorate of Road
Accidents Prevention; and the team members of the World Bank.


                                             27
During the workshop, the consultant and ACIF authorities presented the results of the
impact assessment on direct and indirect beneficiaries and the impact achieved as a result
of the implementation of the works component of the Provincial Roads Improvement
Program (PMCP). At the request of the Bank, the ACIF assessed the institutional
strengthening component and its impact on program execution and results, in a context of
broader Government focus of performance-based objectives. The presentation compared
the goals established in the original program design with the final achievements,
evaluating the social and economic impact, updating mid-term assessment performed,
and communicating main findings and conclusions of the study.

Key principal findings of the beneficiary survey were: (i) 100% of interviewees
expressed a high level of satisfaction with the project, (ii) producers in the area of
influence of the project have benefited from the project due to improved road conditions,
with 100% noting positive economic impact, with reduced vehicle operating costs and
more reliable access to market, (iii) employment generation opportunities have arisen
with new local commercial and agro-industrial centers, (iv) increases in both residential
and catering businesses, as well as in tourism were recorded in La Cumbrecita area, (v)
increases in the price of land of up to 300% (in La Cumbrecita), (vi) access to 20 health
centers and 38 education centers has been improved with a more permanent presence of
medical personnel in the former, (vii) improved mobility and access with traffic increase
in the order of 120% especially in heavy goods vehicles and more frequent public
transport, including those that provide leisure trips for local residents, (viii) improved
road safety conditions with vertical and horizontal markings, and better road surface
riding conditions, and (ix) positive results in the maintenance regime under the CREMA
modality (see details in annex 5).


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

Six critical risks were identified at appraisal as susceptible to have a negative effect on
project implementation and outcome, namely: (i) Lack of counterpart funds and/or
inadequate budget allocation during project implementation in case fiscal situation
deteriorates as a result of unsustainability of revenue efforts and continued increase of
capital expenditures; (ii) Non-tested, incipient centralized structure within the ACIF to
carry out procurement activities, (iii) Concerns with respect to accountability for project
management, (iv) Lack of technical capacity within the DPV to supervise and monitor
performance-based contracts; (v) Delays in Project implementation due to complex
institutional arrangements; and (vi) Gap that may materialize between project costs
estimates at appraisal and real costs at bid presentation. Of those six critical risks, and as
developed earlier, only the last one did materialize. Although no additional risk became
apparent during project execution, the outlook for the future remains somewhat confused,
as limited dialogue has yet taken place between the Bank and the Government of
Argentina regarding follow-up operations in the transport sector for continuation of the
CREMA program both at the national and provincial levels.



                                             28
In this sense, the risk to development outcome is considered moderate: through persistent
efforts and consistent programs, the Provincial Government has managed to improve the
road network condition for the past 10 years; continued its gradual progress in
strengthening road management; brought increased transparency and improved
governance to the provincial finances; and put in place the right institutions and policies
to secure continue inroads in road safety. There is, however a substantial risk linked to
the country’s (and thus provincial) overall fiscal standing which, should it continue to
deteriorate, could lead to decisions to tamper the 10 years past efforts to improve the
efficiency of the sector. In particular lack of funding and difficulty in considering
medium or long- term commitments for performance based contracts is prompting the
provincial government to revert to less efficient alternatives.

On the other hand, roads have been a priority for most provincial governments and it is
unlikely that they would be left to deteriorate to an unacceptable standard due to ever
increasing citizen and business pressures. Along this line, as a medium-term strategy, the
Province of Cordoba is extending the Cobertura performance-based contracts (which
require shorter planning cycles instead of multiyear budgeting as CREMAs), to cover its
entire paved network, while negotiations on external financing for continuation of the
CREMA program are held. In addition, in August 2012 the Provincial Government
proactively approved the Law No. 10,081 establishing a fuel levy, consisting of AR$ 0.20
per liter for diesel oil and gasoil and AR$ 0.40 per liter of gas which is expected to bring
in revenues of about US$ 100 million per year in 2014 and declining in real terms
thereafter since the fixed fees per liter will be eroded by inflation.

Taking all the above into account, the risk to development outcome is deemed to be
moderate.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

The ICR finds the Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry as satisfactory. Most of
the design issues deserve satisfactory ratings, as rated by a QAG-at-entry exercise in
2007. 19 These include: (i) the incorporation of most lessons learned; (ii) the clear and
mostly well-defined development objective approach and the definition of the indicators
related to the serviceability of the road network; (iii) the institutional arrangements


19
  Quality of Entry Assessment for FY06-07, May 17, 2007 rated the Overall Assessment as satisfactory
and, in particular, project preparation and Bank inputs and processes as Highly Satisfactory, noting that
project identification and preparation was done in record time and cost effectiveness.



                                                   29
incorporating all the relevant players in ensuring sound public sector management; and
(iv) strong attention to safeguards. The less than highly satisfactory rating is due to: (a)
the lack of reliable costs because of the celerity of project preparation which resulted in
insufficient engineering designs that did not take full account of site realities on ground
and the rapidly growing heavy goods traffic levels related to the commodities boom; and
(b) the recognition of the importance of fiscal space issues but with no specific link to the
road sector finances.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

The quality of supervision was satisfactory, as noted by QALP2 for the period 08-10. 20
The project supervision team provided appropriate Bank advice to the Borrower on issues
that arose during implementation. Clear examples of this have been the advice provided
by the Bank in two areas: (i) the Bank assistance in establishing the specifications for the
CREMA contracts, using its knowledge and experience gained from similar contracts in
other provinces and countries; and (ii) the advice and financing provided on road safety. 21
The Bank secured Grants and technical assistance from the Global Road Safety Facility
to conduct an assessment of road safety issues in the province and to conduct an iRAP
survey that was carried out by the Province in cooperation with an iRAP team. The action
plan is under implementation and already produced a substantial drop in traffic casualties.

Field based TTL and other team members had direct contact with the client and ensured
timely responses to cropping issues. Continuity in the members of the team was
maintained since project preparation. Supervision was not limited to missions only, and
as such the project was singled out as one of the best performing in the Argentina
portfolio (with extraordinarily quick preparation and approval times, high disbursements,
and very good implementation progress). The Task Team possessed appropriate skills
mix with staff and consultants with the technical, institutional, fiduciary and safeguards
knowledge and experience to work effectively with the client, review documentation,
check the quality of works and review and recommend new approaches in the
implementation of institutional support components to the satisfaction and appreciation of
the client. This resulted in an excellent integration of procurement supervision activities
with the overall supervision effort, and for the consistency, clarity, and
comprehensiveness of documentation of safeguards supervision. Finally, there was a
strong cooperation between LCSTR staff and PREM PS staff in supervising political
economy risks, fiscal space indicators, and activities related to the institutional
strengthening of the Ministry of Finance. The less than highly satisfactory rating is due to
what appears to be the bias towards the civil works component of the project (which,


20
   Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio (QALP-2), Panel Members: Miguel E. Martinez; Peter Ludwig;
Tojoarofenitra Ramanankirahina, Moderator: John Redwood, Assessment Date June 22, 2010.
21
   “On balance, the panel agrees that supervision of this project has been very satisfactory in numerous
respects. The overall 2 rating, which also reflects the views of the fiduciary and safeguard reviewers is at
the high end of the range”, QALP-2, 2010.



                                                    30
granted, presented intensive safeguards issues) and to road safety, at the expense of the
other institutional development component. In particular, the supervision team could have
been more proactive in identifying and modifying/rectifying those indicators that were
not relevant and/or not realistic and did not contribute to monitor the achievements of the
project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

This rating is based on two distinct concepts. The first one brings in the Bank
performance that, albeit some weakness in design, achieved the smooth implementation
of a project with challenging safeguard features, a very active public opinion involvement
and the need to manage a large multi-disciplinary team. The second concept is based on
the fact that informally this project is linked to a series of operations in which the Bank
team acquired the credibility and the confidence of the government to actively participate
in key strategic policy advice. The synergy created by the work of the Bank on other
operations introducing the CREMA concept to Argentina and, most importantly the
highly successful and internationally recognized achievements in road safety at the
national level (supported by the same Bank team working on the subject project) was
instrumental in placing the Bank as a valuable interlocutor. Particularly, for a project in
which key institutional development features (e.g. the Ministry of Finance component
and the design and implementation of a sound and highly successful Road Safety
Strategy) were carried out mostly with the government’s own resources and in-house
know-how, the Bank played the role of a trusted “sounding board”, exchanged ideas, and
contributed to bring outside international experts to review and confirm the merits of the
policies being adopted.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Provincial Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

This rating reflects the following: (i) the successful Provincial Government participation
in a project that acknowledged the macroeconomic linkages of the transport sector and
the need to strengthen the capacity of the provincial Ministry of Finance for budget
preparation and the quality of public investments; (ii) the important strides achieved in
terms of improving the transparency and accountability of the administration; and (iii) the
prompt attention and support to procurement matters that resulted in the implementation
of civil works with average costs below the national benchmark. However, this ICR rates
the Federal Government performance as moderately satisfactory because of their
unwillingness to support the province in taking remedial measures to secure additional
financing to address inflation pressures on ultimate project costs.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory




                                            31
This rating is based on the following: (i) ACIF for the most part showed decisive efforts
to secure a smooth project implementation; (ii) initial shortcomings on financial
management quality were promptly remedied in line with Bank’s recommendations; (iii)
compliance with agreements on project monitoring and reporting was very good; and (iv)
interface with DPV for project execution was problem-free.

The performance of the provincial Ministry of Finance was excellent as its expected
output was fully and efficiently delivered almost at the outset of project execution. So
was the performance of the DPAT (road safety lead agency in the province) in the
implementation of the Road Safety Plan.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall Borrower (Provincial Government) performance is satisfactory. As for the
Federal Government performance, it is rated as moderately satisfactory, based on their
failure to restore the project to its original scope and impact by addressing the financial
shortfall caused by inflation. However, considering that the Province of Cordoba is the
Borrower, with the main responsibility for project execution, while the Federal
Government is acting as Guarantor, this ICR rates the overall Borrower Performance as
Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

1. Projects that encourage and facilitate close, continuous and direct interaction with the
Borrower have a better chance to succeed. In the case of this project, direct lending to a
sub-national government, which obviated one layer of bureaucracy, coupled with a Bank
field based supervision team providing continuous support to the implementing agencies
was a key to the prompt execution of a project with a rather complex civil work
component.

2. Projects aiming at securing adequate and timely resources to achieve a stable condition
of the network should take a comprehensive view of issues related to fiscal space. This
includes (i) a thorough assessment of the present and future needs to achieve an
acceptable “steady state” for the roads and (ii) in line with the financial and institutional
capabilities of the country, develop the right mix of instruments to create the fiscal space
necessary to achieve the intended objective. These may include taxes, user fees, debt, the
mobilization of private financing and, more importantly, the efficient use of scarce
resources.

3. A sustainable shift in the “modus operandi” of a road agency to the CREMA system
requires the continuity sufficient to break institutional inertia and internalize a new
paradigm. The successful introduction of performance-based contracts in Argentina’s at
the national level involved the participation of the Bank in a series of operations that
made possible the full adoption of the idea. The same is true of the experience with other



                                             32
countries now systematically using the CREMA approach. Continued support for the
model hinges on further demonstration of its advantages over traditional approaches
(explained in part in Efficiency section).

4. In countries with high inflation, operations should consider in particular the following
actions: (i) carrying out specific and enhanced sensitivity analysis around the impact of
changes in price on physical targets as part of the initial design of the project and at
appraisal; (ii) including increased transparency measures with regards to analysis of unit
costs of bids to be able to closely monitor impact of inflation on key bill of quantity items,
such as open data mechanisms, to strengthen the governance framework around the
project, and (iii) creating incentives for cost control by proactively addressing inflation
concerns in bidding documents, and strict supervision and management control during
implementation to ensure projects are finished on time and hence do not create cost
burdens related to unanticipated price adjustments.

5. The focus placed on a multisectoral approach for road safety rooted in the safe system
approach which lead the project to interact with the Ministry of Government on issues
related to enforcement (strengthening the Highway Patrol, fine processing procedures,
etc.), safe drivers (licensing system, education and awareness campaigns, etc.), and
linking it to the lead agency at the national level, contributed to the good outcomes that
the province of Cordoba has had in recent years. In this sense, this project showed the
merits of improving road safety management based on performance and results, not just
road safety interventions linked to infrastructure, but rather working with other sectors
and strengthening road safety management more broadly for enhanced impact.

5. Maximizing the benefits of public participation and beneficiaries’ opinions while
containing the potential costs of a small group of people hindering the implementation of
valuable projects requires a well thought management of public information. This
includes the timely release of high quality studies of different alternatives prepared by
qualified and trusted professionals.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

In February 2014, the Borrower submitted its project closing report (summarized in
Annex 7).




                                             33
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                Appraisal          Actual/Latest
                                                                                       Percentage of
              Components                        Estimate             Estimate
                                                                                        Appraisal
                                              (USD millions)       (USD millions)
  1. Institutional Strengthening                        2.11                  2.99             +41%
  1.1         ACIF’s         Institutional            0.668                   2.47            +270%
  Strengthening
  1.2 Institutional Strengthening of the                  0.942                  0.0
  Ministry of Finance
  1.3 DPV’s institutional strengthening                     0.5                 0.52             +4%
  and Road Safety
  2.    Road      Rehabilitation      and                39.46*               42.45*             +7%
  Maintenance through CREMA
  contracts
  3. Road Paving                                         42.21*               50.53*           +20%
  4. Operational Costs                                     N.A                  0.16
   Total Baseline Cost                                    83.78
  Physical and Price Contingencies                        12.31
  Total Project Cost                                      96.09                96.32           +0.2%
  Front end fee                                            0.19                 0.19             +0%
  Total Project Cost                                     96.27*               96.52*           +0.2%

* Numbers are not readily comparable because of the changes in the size and scope of the
civil works component.



(b) Financing

                                               Appraisal          Actual/Latest
                         Type of                                                       Percentage at
 Source of Funds                               Estimate             Estimate
                       Co-financing                                                     Appraisal
                                             (USD millions)       (USD millions)
Borrower                                         21.27               21.52                101%
International Bank
for Reconstruction                               75.00                75.00               100%
and Development




                                                  34
Annex 2.Output by Component

     Component            Output/Activity                        Comments
1.Institutional
Strengthening
1.1. ACIF         100% of projects in portfolio     Achieved
                  with financial, production and
                  impact indicators defined and
                  monitored.

                  Annual Performance Report         ACIF present its program to the
                  publicly disseminated             Ministry of Finance; included in the
                                                    Ministry web site

                  -Development of operational       -Consultants -Completed
                  manual

                  -Strengthening capacity for       -Hiring of: executive coordinator,
                  project management                head of procurement department,
                                                    legal advisor, consultants to support
                                                    the areas of procurement and
                                                    financial management

                  -Training to Municipalities:      -Individual consultant - Completed
                  evaluation of the productive
                  impact of the PMCP

                  -Implementation of the software   -Individual Consultant- Completed
                  for financial management

                  -Impact assessment of the PMCP    -Individual consultant- Completed

                  -Acquisition of Office and IT     -Completed
                  equipment

                  -Acquisition of servers for the   -Completed
                  Provincial Data SuperCenter

1.2 DPV/PDTA      Road assets preserved with        Achieved
                  acceptable average roughness
                  (IRI below 3)

                  Strategic 5-year road program     Initial five -year program was
                  prepared and published.           followed by annual programs
                                                    because economic conditions have an
                                                    impact on the planning horizon.

                  Training on CREMAs                Carried out as part of dialogue with
                  management                        Bank’s staff




                                         35
                  Coverage of CREMA system in         Achieved, in conjunction with
                  targeted network (424 km)           Provincial Roads Project. Due to lack
                                                      of funds for new CREMA contracts,
                                                      coverage of this network will be
                                                      done with Cobertura contracts in the
                                                      future.* (see table below for further
                                                      detail)

                  Reduction in freight rates along    Fully achieved.
                  the rehabilitated roads

                  km of key productive roads          Completed according to revised
                  rehabilitated                       program
                  km of key productive roads
                  paved

                  km of roads maintained with 0       Fully achieved
                  percent potholes, no edge break
                  between the pavement and the
                  shoulders and all horizontal
                  marking and vertical signs
                  restored

                  -Training on environmental          -Carried out with own resources as
                  assessments                         part of systematic efforts by
                                                      environmental agencies.

                  -Training on road safety:           -Achieved with Global Road Safety
                  revision of transit forms           Facility grants (Capacity
                                                      Assessment, iRAP surveys, training
                                                      on design of safety barriers, etc.)

                  -Training of “consorcios            -Carried out with own resources by
                  camineros”                          PDV staff

                  Strategy to address road safety     Fully achieved through institutional,
                  management capacity                 regulatory and enforcement efforts
                  strengthening priorities and        that had a substantial impact in the
                  implementation of a Road Safety     reduction of road accidents
                  Plan

                  -Acquisition of alcohol detectors   -Completed
                  (breathalyzers) for DPTA

                  -Acquisition of dynamic weigh
                  scales for vehicle control and      -Completed
                  training on their use

1.3 Ministry of   Annual performance report           The Ministry publishes its
finance           public disseminated                 activities/programs in its web site.



                                         36
                     -Staffing of working group for    -All the activities related to the
                     the aggregation of public         institutional strengthening of the
                     expenditures                      Ministry of Finance were carried out
                     -Consultancies on budget          with the Ministry in-house staff.
                     formulation and aggregation of
                     public expenditures; conceptual
                     framework, design,
                     implementation, procedure
                     manuals and training

                     -IT for budget preparation        -Cancelled

                     -Consultancy on the               -Cancelled
                     management of contingent
                     liabilities

2. Road              CREMA 1 (127.09km)                Cancelled
rehabilitation and
maintenance                                            Cancelled
                     CREMA 2 (159.91km)
                                                       Completed
                     CREMA 3 (136.94 km)
3. Road Paving       -Despenaderos -Monte Ralo-Rio     -Completed
                     Tercero
                                                       -Completed
                     -Los Reartes-Villa Berna
                                                       -Completed
                     -Carrilobo-Pozo del Mollo
                                                       -Cancelled
                     -Canada de Alvarez-Alpa Corral
                                                       -Completed
                     -San Vicente-Los Cerrillos
                                                       -Completed
                     -Los Zorros-La Playosa




                                           37
* Table comparing the CREMA model against the Contratos de Cobertura de
Mantenimiento model
Contratos CREMA Model                                   Contratos de Cobertura de Mantenimiento
                                                        Model
 General aspects                                         General aspects
 •   Generally applied to road sections between          •   In Cordoba, these contracts are grouped in 8
     80 km and 250 km in length                              zones with each zone contract covering
 •   The province designed a CREMA contracts                 between 500 to 600 km
     program of 792 km but due to cost overruns          •   Total coverage in the province is 4600 km
     only implemented 542km: 405.8km for                     with 4040 km falling under the paved
     Provincial Roads 13 and 17 rehabilitated                primary road network, and 560km under the
     under the Provincial Roads program, and                 paved secondary road network).
     136.9km under the present Project (CREMA            •   Typically contracts awarded to private
     3).                                                     contractors for a period of 2 years
 •   Typically contracts awarded to private              •   Flexible system that does not require detailed
     contractors for a total period of 5 years with          engineering designs. They are based on the
     the initial rehabilitation works in the first 12        need to maintain certain road performance
     to 18 months, and maintenance for the whole             standards linked to specific maintenance
     5 year period.                                          activities similar to km-month systems.
 •   The CREMA contracts principally cover the               Some prior minor rehabilitation works are
     provincial Roads with the highest traffic               undertaken (edge repairs, pothole patching,
     levels, and at the end of the Maintenance               milling, minor asphalt overlays) to bring
     period road Maintenance is undertaken under             contract network to desired condition (about
     the contratos de cobertura model.                       80 percent on average) with the rest of the
 •   Work activities typically include the                   price allocated to routine maintenance (grass
     rehabilitation of specific road sections, and           cutting, shoulder shaping and refilling,
     the routine maintenance of these and other              maintaining road marking both vertical and
     road sections with control done based on set            horizontal, and maintaining drainage
     results (performance standards) linked to the           structures).
     rehabilitation component and maintenance            •   Smaller contract prices typically in the order
     component activities.                                   of US$15 million, which works out at about
 •   Payments are made based on a global                     US$ 14,500 per km-year.
     contract price with the initial rehabilitation      •   Contract Execution is driven primarily at
     noted to range between 70 to 90 percent, and            preventive maintenance and is thus cheaper
     maintenance costs taking up the balance.                than CREMA contracts which typically
 •   Contract prices have typically been in the              include full rehabilitation.
     order of US$30 to US$40 million.                    •   Payments based on module equivalents of
 •   Contractors are in charge of their quality              work items (like a highly flexible unit based
     control and supervision concentrates on                 contract)
     checking compliance with performance                •   Quality control is undertaken via supervision
     standards, and not necessarily the inputs.              by inspectors from the Provincial Roads
 •   Incorporates axle overload control and traffic          department. Calculations are made of
     measurements                                            physical quantities for the module equivalent
 •   A field investigation report is prepared that           activities, and also records are taken of the
     includes measurements for roughness (IRI),              quality indicators.
     deflections, road conditions, and available         •   Axle load control and traffic measurements
     traffic studies.                                        are not included as part of the contracts, but
 •   On the basis of the investigation report, the           are rather separately undertaken by the
     Client prepares a “Basic Project”, which is             Provincial roads department
     the minimum that the contractors must offer         •   To complement these contracts, separate road
     to deliver, and comply with the performance             safety area contracts have been launched to
     standards set in the bidding documents.                 cover other road sections given the
     Contractors cannot bid for inferior structural          challenges that exist in this regard.



                                                    38
     packages to those indicated in the bidding
     documents.
 •   The official budget estimate is based on the
     “basic Project” requirements.
 •   The contractors undertake a field visit, and
     thus gain further information that enables
     them to best quote prices for the work to be
     undertaken (initial rehabilitation of specific
     road sections), and Maintenance of all road
     sections in the Bidding documents.
 •   Contractors make a bid with two global
     sums: one for the rehabilitation component,
     and one for the maintenance component.
     They have to prepare an executive project
     design within 60 days of contract signature.
 •   Quarterly work plan compliance is
     undertaken
 •   Interventions incorporate aspects like road
     safety for both the initial rehabilitation, and
     maintenance phases.

Strengths of CREMA model:                               Strengths of Contratos de Cobertura model:
                                                        •    Can cover larger contract road lengths (up to
 •   Performance based control related to quality            600 km)
     and not merely inputs                              •    It is a more flexible system that can enable
 •   Auto-control     by    contractor     reduces           changes in work items as deemed necessary
     supervision costs while not compromising                as per ground realities under the modular
     quality                                                 equivalent system
 •   Bidding can be undertaken using ‘basic             •    Does not require detailed engineering
     project” information without the need for               designs
     detailed engineering designs                       •    The short contract duration (two years)
 •   Contract modifications are not permitted                enables the monitoring of contractor
 •   The contract guarantees that the roads are              performance, and thus enables the possibility
     maintained to a good level of service over an           for non-renewal or extension of the contract
     extended time period which favors the road              depending on the performance
     users                                              •    Separate road safety area contracts are seen
                                                             as a positive step to give priority and focus to
                                                             this major issue.




                                                   39
Weaknesses of the CREMA model                           Weaknesses of the Contratos de Cobertura
•  The CREMA contracts are sustainable in the           model
   contract execution time frame. Outside these,        •   Contemplates less expensive interventions
   further financing is needed to ensure                    concentrating on minor rehabilitation, and
   continuous Maintenance in a second                       focusing on maintenance hence road sections
   CREMA phase                                              requiring greater budgets for rehabilitation
•  Multi-annual budgeting, and allocation of                are not ideal candidates for the model
   resources to CREMA contracts is necessary            •   In the modular systems model, there is a
   to ensure continued success with the model               challenge to still ensure that the maintenance
•  CREMA contracts work best in contracts                   efforts are not overlooked in favor of more
   with little price variation, or need to include          intensive works, hence a greater balance
   price adjustment clauses. The latter option              needs to be made
   has worked best in the Cordoba contracts.            •   Requires the intervention of the provincial
                                                            roads department to carry out inspections,
                                                            modular equivalent measurements and results
                                                            measurements
                                                        •   There is no specific work program control
                                                            based on clear time milestones.

Possible considerations to improve the model:           Possible considerations to improve the model:
•    There needs to be greater follow-up on other       •    Further study is needed to see if some
     aspects included in the bidding documents               benefits and efficiencies from the CREMA
     but not captured by the performance                     model can be incorporated into the Contratos
     indicators                                              de Cobertura model.
•    Axle load control, traffic counts, and speed
     control are aspects that need greater attention
     in the zones of influence of the contracts
•    Greater capacity building and awareness
     among both supervisors and contractors as to
     how the model works exactly since many are
     accustomed       to   the    traditional    ad-
     measurement unit based contracts
•    Possibility of pre-bid meeting with interested
     contractors if procurement deems this a
     viable option in the context, including
     encouraging them to undertake field visits
     prior to submitting bids.




                                                   40
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The DPV has performed an estimated ex-post economic evaluation of the road
rehabilitation and maintenance works (CREMA contract) and the paving works executed
during the project life. The ex-post evaluation follows the same methodology used for the
original evaluation at appraisal: both were done using the Highway Design and
Maintenance Standards Model (HDM), which simulates life cycle conditions and costs
and provides economic decision criteria for road construction and maintenance activities.
HDM was used for estimating the net benefits of each project in terms of reductions in
vehicle operating costs, passenger travel time, and road maintenance expenditures.

 DPV estimated maintenance and rehabilitation costs in financial and economic terms
(net of taxes), economic costs being on average 70 percent of financial costs; and defined
vehicle fleet characteristics and unit costs for six vehicle classes, economic road user
costs being on average 70 percent of financial costs. Typical economic road user costs as
a function of roughness (IRI), road user costs composition, and traffic composition are
given below; as well as relationship between the average vehicle fleet economic road user
costs and road roughness.

The traffic growth rates are based on a study conducted by the DPV. For road paving
projects, the traffic growth rates considered at appraisal were: 3-5 percent for light
vehicles for the entire evaluation period; and 5 percent until 2008 and 3 percent thereafter
for medium, heavy, and articulated trucks. For the CREMA projects, the traffic growth
rate used at appraisal for the contract period (2007-2011) is 3 percent from the date of
project start. This rate was based on the evolution of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) over
the previous ten years and it is commonly used for the economic evaluation of road
projects. For the ex-post evaluation actual traffic counts carried out by DPV annually
were used until 2013 traffic and a future growth rate of 3% per year was estimated for the
remainder of the life of the projects.

The discount rate used in the analysis is 12 percent. The value of time for car passengers
and for bus passengers is US$2.2 per hour based on the consideration that 75 percent of
car passengers and 75 percent of bus passengers earn income and are on work trips, and
the value on non-working time is zero. The “with” project alternative in the case of
rehabilitation and maintenance includes routine maintenance, 100 percent patching, crack
sealing, 4-10 cm overlay and reconstruction in the first two years of the project and was
compared to a “without” project alternative consisting of routine maintenance, 100
percent patching, crack sealing and a reconstruction when roughness reaches 6 IRI. For
the paving projects the alternative includes routine maintenance, 100 percent patching
and paving and was compared to a “without” project alternative consisting of routine
maintenance, grading three times a year and re-gravelling when loss of thickness reaches
30 percent or 100 mm.

The estimated ex-post evaluation (scenario 3) compares the latest estimated economic
returns of the civil works component with (a) the original PAD estimate (scenario 1) and
(b) the revised estimates once the higher than expected costs prompted the revision of the
project component (scenario 2). The results of these exercises are summarized below.


                                            41
      Comparison of returns derived from the different scenarios - May 2013
      Scenario 1 a): Program initial global assessment (all works included in the PAD)

                                                   NPV              NPV             ERR
                                                 (Mill. AR$)      (Mill. U$S)        (%)
      Road Paving                                  91.45            17.48           16.35
      Malla CREMA                                    241.65         46.18           25.94
      TOTAL                                          333.11         63.65           20.56
      Scenario 1 b): Ex-ante assessment (PAD), only executed works
                                                  NPV             NPV               ERR
                                               (Mill. AR$)     (Mill. U$S)           (%)
      Road Paving                                 90.18           17.23             18.00
      Malla CREMA                                    34.02           6.50           20.80

      TOTAL                                          124.20         23.73            18.8
      Scenario 2: Ex-ante assessment (revised for specific projects ), only executed works
                                                    NPV               NPV             ERR
                                                (Mill. AR$)       (Mill. U$S)          (%)
      Road Paving                                  116.21             22.21          19.50
      Malla CREMA                                    42.37           8.10           13.30
      TOTAL                                          158.57         30.30           17.84
      Scenario 3 a) : Ex-post assessment, executed works (Mid-Term)
                                                    NPV           NPV               ERR
                                                 (Mill. AR$)   (Mill. U$S)           (%)
      Road Paving                                  280.14         53.53             30.70
      Malla CREMA                                    23.63           4.51           15.40
      TOTAL                                          303.76         58.05            23.9
      Scenario 3 b) : Ex-post assessment, executed works (Final)
                                                    NPV             NPV             ERR
                                                (Mill. AR$)      (Mill. U$S)         (%)
      Road Paving                                  620.41          118.56           43.30
      Malla CREMA                                    31.85           6.09           18.24
      TOTAL                                          652.26         124.64           36.4



The ex-post economic evaluation of all road projects yielded a positive economic return.
The road rehabilitation and maintenance project (CREMA) yields a Net Present Value of
US$ 6.09 million at a discount rate of 12 % and an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of
18.24% as compared to the 16.35% expected at appraisal. In the case of paving, the
program yielded an estimated ex-post NPV of 124.64 US million and an EER of 43.30%
as compared to the 25,94% expected at appraisal. The higher than expected returns can be
explained by actual traffic volumes that are well above those estimated at appraisal and
that, as shown below, this impact was higher in the paving works that in the CREMA one.
All paving sections had rates of return above 12%. They ranged from 75.1% for the


                                                42
Despenadero-Monte Ralo- Rio Tercero road to 18.7% for the Los Zorros-La Playosa
section.

A more detailed comparison of the ex-antes economic evaluation versus the ex-post
economic evaluation is presented in the table below. It is worth noting that the project
actually exhibited stronger economic viability in the ex-post evaluation compared to the
ex-antes scenario with the global comparisons being NPV of US$ 10.74 million and
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 15.65% for the ex-antes case compared to NPV of
US$ 124.64 million and Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 36.4% for the ex-post case.
This is attributed in great part to the higher than expected traffic volumes in the ex-post
case, and the updates of higher prevailing unit input prices (for the benefits tabs) in the
HDM-4 model for 2013.

Finally, it should be noted that the increased in US dollar costs that affected the size of
the project was mostly due to an inflation rate that exceeded the rate of devaluation of the
peso vis-à-vis the dollar. However, the nominal increase of domestic prices had similar
impact both in the costs and in the benefits of the investments does preserving the
economic merits of the projects.




                                            43
Economic evaluations ex-post (using HDM-4 model), compared to the same sections evaluated ex-ante.
                                                             SCENARIO EX-ANTE – PAD MAY                                   SCENARIO EX-POST -
                                                                        2006                                                  MAY 2013

                                                             Initial Evaluation –
         Paving Contract                                                                                                 Implemented Projects
                                                     Project Appraisal Document (PAD)


                                     Length       Cost          ERR           NPV            NPV             Cost        ERR        NPV             NPV
  Road             Section
                                      (km)     (mill US$)       (%)         (mill AR$)     (mill US$)      (mill US$)     (%)     (mill AR$)      (mill US$)

           1- Despeñaderos -
S- 253     Monte Ralo – Rio             38.9          7.93         16.5          5.670             1.890         7.15      75.1        333.63             63.75
           Tercero
S-210     y 2- Los Reartes – Villa
                                        27.2          8.01         22.9         13.830             4.610        13.38      34.2        123.15             23.53
S-273       Berna

           3- Carrilobo - Pozo
E-52                                   23.75          5.24         18.4            5.05            1.683         5.60      38.5          82.59            15.78
           del Molle

E-91 y S- 5- San Vicente-Los
                                       17.83          5.16         16.0          3.240             1.080         7.48      30.3          60.06            11.48
212       Cerrillos

S-388 y 6- Los         Zorros-La
                                       17.63          3.70         12.9            0.52            0.173         7.20      18.7          20.97             4.01
T106-10 Playosa

           Total                      125.31        30.04          18.0         28.310             9.437        40.82      43.3        620.41            118.56
                                                             Initial work
                                                             costs date:                  Oct-05                        Updated cost date:       May-13
                                                             US$ exchange rate:           3.0                           US$ exchange rate:       5.233




                                                                                                44
                                                            SCENARIO EX-ANTE - PRICE                        SCENARIO EX-POST - MAY 2013
                                                                     ADJUSTED (*)
                                                       CREMA adjusted. January 2007 –
CREMA contract N. 3                                                                                                Implemented Projects
                                                           Project Ex-ante adjusted (*)
                                      Length      Cost       ERR         NPV            NPV           Cost (mill           NPV                   NPV
  Road            Section                                                                                        ERR (%)
                                       (km)     (mill US$)    (%)      (mill AR$)     (mill US$)        US$)             (mill AR$)            (mill US$)

E-59     Noetinger - Leones             30.93         7.14      15.9          1.70             0.56        7.72        13.2             1.15            0.22
         Marcos Juárez – Int. RP
12                                      27.97         6.46      11.8         -0.18            -0.06        6.98        30.2            22.15            4.23
         N° 6 (Inriville)
         Int. RP N° 6 (Inriville) -
12                                      18.26         4.21      13.8          0.84             0.28        4.56        14.4             2.17            0.41
         Camilo Aldao
         Camilo Aldao – Int. RP
12                                      17.48         2.83      14.1          0.70             0.23        4.36        18.6             3.80            0.73
         N° 11
12       Int. RP N° 11 - Cavanagh       23.89         5.51      12.2          0.14             0.04        5.96        14.9             2.59            0.50

12       Cavanagh - Int. RN N° 8         18.4         4.25      13.5          0.77             0.25        4.59        15.1             3.13            0.60

         Total CREMA 3                 136.93        30.39      13.3          3.97             1.30       34.17        18.2         31.855             6.087
(*) Note: In the CREMA 3, some adjustments were made Initial work
including reducing contract length and removing specific costs date:                 Jan-07                       Updated cost date:           May-13
items. As such the ex-ante scenario has been adapted to
suit the adjusted context.                               US$ exchange rate:          3.05                         US$ exchange rate:           5.233



                                                                       Global Program                                         Global Program

                                                             ERR       NPV              NPV                        ERR       NPV             NPV
                                                             (%)     (mill AR$)       (mill US$)                   (%)     (mill AR$)      (mill US$)

                                                             15.65        32.28               10.74                36.40        652.26             124.64




                                                                                        45
Ex-post evaluation (2013)
Update of work prices (at base prices of the ex-post assessment, May 2007)


Road Paving
                                                                                                                                      adopted
                                                         Index Base (month 0)            Index months (i)          index variation
                                                                                                                                      variation
                                                                                                                          reference
                                                                       reference                     reference                                                capitalized
                                         Amount                                                                           variation
                              Base                    Base             variation     Month           variation   CAC                               correcti    amount
Route             Section              executed ($)            CAC                           CAC                           (DNV-      Avg. 1 y 4
                              month                   month             (DNV-         "i"             (DNV-       (1)                                 on      executed -
                                       (base month)                                                                       INDEC)
                                                                       INDEC)                        INDEC)                                         factor    May 2007
                                                                                                                             (4)
          1- Despeñaderos -
                              Aug-                    Aug-                           May-
S- 253    Monte Ralo – Rio             22,005,265              367.2     2.8130              406.6    2.9997     10.7%      6.6%        8.7%        1.087     23,916,080
                               06                      06                             07
          Tercero
S-210 y   2- Los Reartes –                                                           May-
                              Jul-07   41,496,790     Jul-07   422.7     3.1450              406.6    2.9997     -3.8%      -4.6%       -4.2%       0.958     39,747,933
 S-273    Villa Berna                                                                 07
          3- Carrilobo -      Sep-                    Sep-                           May-
 E-52                                  17,343,456              372.6     2.8495              406.6    2.9997     9.1%       5.3%        7.2%        1.072     18,591,853
          Pozo del Molle       06                      06                             07
E-91 y    4- San Vicente-     May-                    May-                           May-
                                       23,006,311              406.6     2.9997              406.6    2.9997     0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        1.000     23,006,311
 S-212    Los Cerrillos        07                      07                             07
S-388 y
          5- Los Zorros-La    May-                    May-                           May-
 T106-                                 22,141,996              406.6     2.9997              406.6    2.9997     0.0%       0.0%        0.0%        1.000     22,141,996
          Playosa              07                      07                             07
  10
          Total                        125,993,818                                                                                                            127,404,173

CREMA Contract N. 3
                                                                                                                                      adopted
                                                         Index Base (month 0)            Index months (i)          index variation
                                                                                                                                      variation
                                                                                                                          reference
                                                                       reference                     reference                                                 update
                                         Amount                                                                           variation                accumu
                              Base                    Base             variation     Month           variation   CAC                                          contract
Route             Section              executed ($)            CAC                           CAC                           (DNV-      Avg. 1 y 4    lation
                              month                   month             (DNV-         "i"             (DNV-       (1)                                         amount -
                                       (base month)                                                                       INDEC)                    factor
                                                                       INDEC)                        INDEC)                                                   May 2007
                                                                                                                             (4)
 E59 -                                 104,682,037.                                  May-
          CREMA 3             Jun-07                  Jun-07   410.3     3.0401              406.6    2.9997     -0.9%      -1.3%      -1.12%       0.989     103,999,633
 R12                                       270                                        07




                                                                                46
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
          Names                             Title                 Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Pierre Graftieaux         Senior Transport Specialist            LCSFT
Jose Alonso-Biarge        Lead Highway Engineer                  LCSFT
Cesar Queiroz             Lead Highway Engineer                  ECSIE
Antonio Leonardo Blasco   Sr Financial Management Specialist     LCSFM
Fernando J. Brunstein     Environmental Consultant               LCSEN
Juan Manuel Campana       Highway Consultant                     LCSTR
Fernando Rojas            Institutional Development Consultant   LCSPS
Xiomara Morel             Sr. Finance Officer                    LOAGI
Juan Gaviria              Sector Leader                          LCSFP
Claudio Luis Daniele      Consultant                             LCSEN
Ana Maria Grofsmacht      Procurement Specialist                 LCSPT
Aurelio Menendez          Senior Transport Economist             EASTR
Jose Luis Irigoyen        Sector Manager                         LCSFT
Reynaldo F. Pastor        Chief Counsel                          LEGLE
Luis Enrique Pinilla      Procurement Consultant                 CN2S7
Paul Procee               Lead Urban Specialist                  EASCS
Veronica Ines Raffo       Senior Infrastructure Specialist       LCSTR
Juan Luis Sanguinetti     Fiscal Consultant                      LCSHH
Zeinab Partow             Country Economist                      LCSPE
Alejandro Roger Solanot   Sr. Financial Management Specialist    LCSFM

Supervision/ICR
Marcelo Hector Acerbi     Senior Environmental Specialist        LCSEN
Jose Alonso-Biarge        Consultant                             LCSTR
Natalia Cecilia Bavio     Finance Analyst                        CTRLN
Antonio Leonardo Blasco   Sr. Financial Management Specialist    LCSFM
Fernando J. Brunstein     Consultant                             LCSEN
Juan Manuel Campana       Consultant                             LCSTR
Jasmin Chakeri            Senior Economist                       OPSPQ
Daniel Chalupowicz        Financial Management Specialist        LCSFM
Vickram Cuttaree          Senior Infrastructure Economist        MNSTI
Claudio Luis Daniele      Consultant                             LCSEN
Ana Maria Grofsmacht      Procurement Specialist                 LCSPT
Gabriel Luongo Caselli    Consultant                             LCSTR
Xiomara A. Morel          Sr. Financial Management Specialist    LCSFM
Reynaldo F. Pastor        Chief Counsel                          LEGLE
Luis Enrique Pinilla      Consultant                             CN2S7
Paul Procee               Lead Urban Specialist                  EASCS



                                       47
Veronica Ines Raffo         Senior Infrastructure Specialist      LCSTR
Juan Luis Sanguinetti       Consultant                            LCSHH
Ricardo Schusterman         Consultant                            LCSSO
Alejandro Roger Solanot     Sr. Financial Management Specialist   LCSFM




(a) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                              USD Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                              consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                                              157.90
  FY07                                                               31.49
                          Total:                                    189.39
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                                                0.00
  FY07                                                               20.33
  FY08                                                               57.16
  FY09                                                               83.43
  FY10                                                               43.84
  FY11                                                               38.85
  FY12                                                               64.11
  FY13                                                               21.02
                          Total:                                    328.74




                                         48
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

All surveys carried out as part of the Mid-Term and End-of-Project Impact Assessment
study have been filed in the project file, including video interviews of main stakeholders
and project beneficiaries.

A closing survey to the beneficiaries of the projects was conducted on May 2013. The
opinion poll was elaborated gathering groups of questions by the type of effect on the
context. These questions were grouped into the following groups sequentially and then
associated with value of each indicator.
    • Indicators of indirect impact: 15 questions.
    • Indicators of direct impact: 6 questions.
    • Indicators of the results of the product: 10 questions.
    • Overall assessment and identified problems: 3 questions.

A total of 14 interviews were conducted on focus groups of stakeholders associated with
the six projects of the program:
    • Municipality of Camino Aldo (government sector).
    • Municipality of Cavanagh (social groups and government sector).
    • Municipality of Los Zorros (public works, health and government sector).
    • Municipality of Pozo del Molle (government sector).
    • Municipality of Carrillobo (government sector).
    • Municipality of Corralito (government sector).
    • Municipality of Monte Ralo (government sector).
    • Municipality of Despeñaderos (government sector).
    • Athos Pampa, Manuel Belgrano School (education sector, school).
    • Commune of Los Reartes (government sector, tourism).
    • Commune of La Cumbrecita (government sector tourism).
    • Dídimo Argañarás, rural school near San Vicente (education sector, school).
    • Municipality of Los Cerrillos (government sector).
    • Municipality of San Vicente (health, education and government sector).

The interviews to the beneficiaries updated the information related to the impacts on
production, employment and consumption, tourism, real estate (increased value of the
land ), transport and accessibility of educational and health centers, transit service and
maintenance, bus lines, freight, road safety, environmental aspects, and general
assessments, grade of satisfaction and problems or actions to be considered in the future.

A summary of survey results is included below:

  i.   100% of interviewees expressed a high level of satisfaction with the project, with



                                           49
        positive effects in all the analyzed indicators;
  ii.   producers in the area of influence of the project have benefited from the project
        due to improved road conditions, with 100% noting positive economic impact,
        with reduced vehicle operating costs and more reliable access to market;
 iii.   employment generation opportunities have arisen with new local commercial and
        agro-industrial centers;
 iv.    increases in both residential and catering businesses, as well as in tourism were
        recorded in La Cumbrecita area;
  v.    increases in the price of land (up to 300% in La Cumbrecita);
 vi.    access to 20 health centers has been improved with a more permanent presence of
        medical personnel;
vii.    access to 38 education centers has been improved, with a strong impact in the
        rural schools served by the roads;
viii.   improved mobility and access with traffic increase in the order of 120% especially
        in heavy goods vehicles, including those that provide leisure trips for local
        residents. In some specific sections, such us Rio Tercero- Despeñaderos, the level
        of traffic was multiplied by five and also a significant increase was detected in the
        CREMA project related with the high harvest of the lasts years;
 ix.    more frequent public transport, crucial to access schools and to connect to near
        urban centers;
  x.    improved road safety conditions with vertical and horizontal markings, and better
        road surface riding conditions (in rural unpaved roads the IRI improved from 8 to
        2,5) ; and
 xi.    positive results in the maintenance regime under the CREMA project.




                                             50
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

On July 10, 2013, a Stakeholder Consultation Workshop and public dissemination event
was carried out in Cordoba City to present the results of the End-of-Project Impact
Assessment Study conducted by Eng. Esteban Travaglianti, an independent consultant.

Participants included authorities of the Government of Cordoba form the Ministry of
Planning, Investment and Financing (Ministro de Planificación, Inversión y
Financiamiento) and the Secretary of Innovation and Management Monitoring
(Secretario de Innovación y Monitoreo de la Gestión); officials and staff of the Cordoba’s
Agency for Investment and Financing (Agencia Córdoba de Inversión y Financiamiento,
ACIF S.E.M.); officials from the Provincial Directorate of Highways (Dirección
Provincial de Vialidad, DPV) and the Directorate of Road Accidents Prevention
(Dirección de Prevención de Accidentes viales); and the team members of the World
Bank.

During the workshop, the consultant and ACIF authorities presented the results of the
impact assessment on direct and indirect beneficiaries and the impact achieved as a result
of the implementation of the works component of the Provincial Roads Improvement
Program (PMCP). At the request of the Bank, the ACIF assessed the institutional
strengthening component and its impact on program execution and results, in a context of
broader Government focus of performance-based objectives. The presentation compared
the goals established in the original program design with the final achievements,
evaluating the social and economic impact, updating mid-term assessment performed,
and communicating main findings and conclusions of the study.

List of participants:
   - Dr. Gimeno Balaguer, Eugenio - Ministro de Planificación, Inversión y
        Financiamiento
   - Cr. Gauna, Eduardo - Presidente ACIF -Coordinador General PMCP
   - Cr. Musicante, Saul - Director titular ACIF - Coordinador Ejecutivo PMCP
   - Cra. Bustos Fierro, Dolores - Director titular ACIF - Responsable Administración
        Financiera PMCP
   - Ing. Ledesma, Miguel - Director DPAT
   - Ing. Pardo, Damián - Secretario de Innovación y Monitoreo de la Gestión
   - Ing. Gei, Ignacio - Subsecretario de Tecnología Informática y
        Telecomunicaciones
   - Inf. Bergero, Pablo - Director de Tecnología - Subs, de Tecnología Informática y
        Telecomunicaciones
   - Ing. Rahmane, Isaac - Secretario de Obras Públicas
   - Ing. Bértola, Raúl - Presidente DPV
   - Ing. Bejerman, Norberto Jorge - Jefe Unidad Ambiental de la DPV
   - Lic. Jaimes, Jorge - Secretario de Planificación- Ministerio de Planificación,
        Inversión y Financiamiento


                                           51
-   Ab. Gallo, Nancy - Directora General de Asuntos Legales - Ministerio de
    Planificación, Inversión y Financiamiento
-   Lic. Pagan, Soledad - Directora General de Administración- Ministerio de
    Planificación
-   Lic. Garrido, Lucas - Asesor del Ministerio de Planificación, Inversión y
    Financiamiento
-   Lic. Gimeno Balaguer, Eugenia - Asesora del Ministerio de Planificación,
    Inversión y Financiamiento
-   Lic. Montanchini, Cristina - Proyectos Especiales- Ministerio de Planificación,
    Inversión y Financiamiento
-   Lic. Anselma, Juan Pablo - Capacitacion y Seguimiento- Ministerio de
    Planificación, Inversión y Financiamiento
-   Cr. De León, Ignacio - Tesorero - Ministerio de Planificación, Inversión y
    Financiamiento
-   Cr. Amichi, Pablo - Jefe Control de Gestión ACIF - PMCP
-   Ab. Avellaneda, Carolina - Asesora Juridica PMCP
-   Lic. Roma, Franco - Consultor en Adquisiciones - SEPA - PMCP
-   Torres, Natalia - Consultor soporte SIAF PMCP
-   Ab. Mooney, - Adriana Jefa Departamento Jurídico ACIF
-   Ab. Brito, Noel - Asesora Juridica ACIF
-   Ab. Funes Rius, Ernesto - Asesor Jurídico ACIF
-   Lic. Vásquez, Hilda - Coordinadora U.CO.PRO, - ACIF
-   Cr. Suarez, Victor - Departamento Contable ACIF
-   Cr. Rustan, Oscar - Departamento Contable ACIF
-   Cra. Carrascul, Eleanor - Departamento Contable ACIF
-   Cra. De Luca, Karina - Departamento Contable ACIF
-   Cr. Oliveri, Sebastián - Departamento Contable ACIF
-   Ing. Heredia, Vicente - Departamento Técnico ACIF
-   Arq. Marchese, Graciela - Departamento Técnico ACIF
-   Cr. Puentes Diaz, Roberto - Referente Informático ACIF
-   Lic. Torres Lima, Emanuel - Control de Gestión ACIF
-   Llorens, Pablo - Despacho ACIF
-   Suarez, Alejandro - Despacho ACIF
-   Ab. Araya, Romina - Contrataciones ACIF
-   Pereyra, Natalia - Administración ACIF
-   Ferreyra, Cecilia - Administración ACIF
-   Bustos, Veronica - Secretaría Privada ACIF
-   Bracamonte, Milagros - Secretaría Privada ACIF




                                        52
Presentation delivered during Workshop (selected slides). Impact Evaluation:




                                        53
54
55
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


I. INTRODUCTION

A) Background Information

As stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the project calls for an analysis
according to its formulation framework. In this regard, the Project Document sets forth a
series of sectoral issues in Argentina and in Cordoba province which are hereunder
summarized:

The role of transport in the Argentine economy. In view of the nature of productive
activities in Argentina, with agriculture and industry accounting for a significant
percentage of total Gross Domestic Product (GDP), the role of the transport sector is
essential for the country’s economy. The transport sector became even more important
after the 2002 devaluation since the new exchange rate created favourable conditions for
Argentina’s commodities: changes in relative prices gave rise to a change in GDP
composition, through an exchange between goods and services markets that emphasized
the production of goods and increased the demand for transport services. 22 The growth in
exports, 23 together with a remarkable recovery in domestic consumption, exerted pressure
on the transport sector and thus the National Government needed to ensure an appropriate
supply of transport services, in support of a potential increase in production and
improvement in the country’s overall competitiveness.

The road sector in Argentina and the provincial network within the general context.
Roads are the main means of transport in the country, accounting for close to 81% of the
total freight volumes. Around the year 2004, the Argentine road network was 630,000 km
long (11% paved), and divided into three administrative levels: national, provincial and
municipal. Over 70% of total traffic drove along the provincial and national paved roads
(the tertiary network under municipal jurisdiction consists of unpaved roads, access to
farms and roads with little traffic). Provincial road networks encompassed approximately
191,000 km, under the jurisdiction of 23 provincial road agencies (DPVs in the Spanish
acronym), representing 30% of the total length of the country’s roads.

Cordoba province had 3,066,000 inhabitants in 2001 (8.5% of Argentina’s population)
and an area of 165,231 Km2 (17.1% of Argentina’s total productive area, with
consumption centres, processing plants, ports and other export outlets along national
paved roads in the Province, approximately 2,600 km), managed by the National
Directorate of Highways. Around 2004, the conditions of the road network gave rise to


22
   FIEL. Abel Vignone Presentation at the 13th Conference on Logistics, Infrastructure Logistics and
Economic Development, 2004.
23
   In 2004 and 2005, exports accounted for 25% of GDP (measured at current prices) which entails a
remarkable increase with regard to the 9% recorded in the 1990s.



                                                56
significant costs in logistics which could impede any future expansion of agricultural
production. Growth of Cordoba’s economy, particularly in the tourism and agricultural
sectors, led the province to facing the most urgent needs as regards rehabilitation and
paving, so as to avoid such deficiencies in the road sector from turning into a bottleneck
and hindering short-term growth.

The road network in Cordoba Province. Its function and how it is managed. The
Road Network in Cordoba Province covers 99% of passenger transport and 85% of goods
transport. The Provincial Directorate of Highways, within the Infrastructure Ministry, is
in charge of the network that bears 50% of total road traffic and is an essential element of
the transport system. As from mid-2002 important variations took place in the volume of
transported people and goods. Such variations were mainly due to two factors: (i) the
constant increase in farming production; and ii) the greater demand from users in the
tourist sector. These significant variations required increasing budgetary efforts to pave
new roads, rehabilitate existing ones, and maintain the Provincial Road Network.
Important progress was made in the institutional strengthening of the Provincial Road
Network, through provincial road programmes funded by the World Bank (Provincial
Road Programmes PCP I – IBRD Loan 4093-AR, and PCP II - IBRD Loan 7301-AR),
which helped to consolidate planning capabilities and prioritize road works through
comprehensive analyses of the provincial networks using instruments such as HDM, the
economic, social and environmental assessment of projects, the design of routine
maintenance programmes, works supervision via the completion of the Routine
Maintenance Management System (SGCR, in the Spanish acronym). A potential new
loan is in the pipeline to supplement the achievements obtained so far through PCPs and
the management of Provincial Treasury Funds, in the quest for a continuous improvement
of the provincial network, correcting the main lags in the network’s maintenance
programme through reconstruction and rehabilitation works, and expansion of the paved
network, particularly in the farming and tourist attraction areas.

Cordoba Province’s fiscal situation. As a result of the devaluation brought about by the
deep national crisis of 2001-2002, the overall fiscal performance of Corboba province
was affected and, particularly its public debt indicators. A subsequent general review of
the province’s fiscal situation indicated that provincial finances had improved
significantly since then; and the economic recovery produced a significant revenue
increase which, together with a tight expenditure control in 2003 and 2004, gave rise to
an overall improvement in indicators, thus showing that the province had gradually
consolidated its budgetary balance and achieved primary surpluses in current revenue. By
2005, debt stocks had declined to 110% of net revenue. This recovery was also supported
by financial assistance programmes of the National Ministry of Economy called
“Structured Financing Programmes”. The Government’s financial assistance to the
Provinces was included in Federal Fiscal Responsibility Law No. 25,917 (LRF in the
Spanish acronym), which sets forth general rules on fiscal performance and public debt
sustainability for the Argentine Public Sector, including the provincial governments.
Córdoba Province adopted LRF in June 2005, through Provincial Law No. 9,237.
Negotiations with the Ministry of Finance focused on this topic led to an agreement on
the need to: (i) improve the quality of provincial expenditure by means of better project



                                            57
management, monitoring and evaluation; and (ii) closely monitor fiscal matters so as to
identify potential problems well in advance to mitigate or even avoid their consequences
on an infrastructure investment programme.

B) Programme for Improving Provincial Roads (P.M.C.P. In the Spanish acronym)

Within this context, Cordoba province started negotiations to sign a loan agreement with
the World Bank to fund an infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance programme.

C) Programme’s General and Specific Objectives

Based on the achievements of other programmes funded by the World Bank – such as the
Provincial Roads Programme (IBRD 4093-AR) and the Provincial Road Infrastructure
Programme (IBRD 7301-AR)- the overall project objectives of the Programme for
Improving Provincial Roads in Cordoba (P.M.C.P. – IBRD Loan 7398-AR) are the
following:

 (i) to increase efficiency in road management so as to improve the conditions of the
provincial road network for facilitating transport of goods along the productive corridors
and of people in tourist areas; and

 (ii) to strengthen the institutional capacity of the province with a view to optimizing the
design and implementation of key Public Investment programmes, within a framework of
fiscal sustainability, by introducing management practices based on performance, greater
coordination of the information systems and integrated financial management.

The specific objectives are:

       (i)        To solve a measurable part of the lag in the maintenance of the
                  provincial road network;
       (ii)       To contribute to extending the paved network, focusing on the network
                  segments that have historically lagged behind, and the paving of which
                  would support growth in tourism and in agriculture-based industries.
       (iii)      To extend the use of performance-based contracts as a key step towards
                  the implementation of a sustainable and cost-effective road
                  management strategy;
       (iv)       To support incipient initiatives aimed at quality assurance in provincial
                  expenditure, the creation of a fiscal space and fiscal sustainability
                  assurance in the medium run;
       (v)        To strengthen the Agencia Córdoba de Inversión y Financiamiento
                  S.E.M. (Cordoba’s Investment and Financing Agency) in its financial
                  planning process and project management capabilities; and
       (vi)       To further strengthen the management capacity of the Provincial
                  Directorate of Highways as regards the provincial road network.




                                            58
D) Components

PMCP includes four (4) Components:

1) Component I – Institutional strengthening, with interventions in three priority
agencies for the project’s development:

   i)     Ministry of Finance: This sub-component involves activities related to
          coordination structures, information, monitoring and evaluation systems, and
          training in the financial management sector of the Ministry of Finance. It will
          encompass activities in three different areas or modules;

   ii)    Agencia Córdoba de Inversión y Financiamiento S.E.M. (Córdoba’s
          Agency for Investment and Financing - A.C.I.F.): The loan would help to
          strengthen A.C.I.F. S.E.M. at the functional level, in areas such as financial
          management and debt management, project programming and monitoring, as
          well as support to information systems, among others. The project would fund
          the design and implementation of activities targeted to developing a
          performance-based management system, connecting the monitoring and
          evaluation system of A.C.I.F. S.E.M. with sector-based planning and
          budgetary decisions.

The sub-component was divided into three modules, namely:
   (i)    Module 2.1: Comprehensive Management Model A.C.I.F. S.E.M., the purpose
          of which is to create installed capacity at the Agency for the Programme, as
          well as to provide it with an organizational structure based on the
          implementation of organizational changes in line with its role in the modern
          State, and the review and drafting of manuals on critical processes for the
          proper functioning of the new structure.
   (ii)   Module 2.2: Sector-Based Technical Executing Units (UTES by the Spanish
          acronym). The purpose of this module is to provide UTES with
          comprehensive training to standardize the sending of reports and information
          to this Agency.
   (iii) Module 2.3: Information System. This module is meant to make an IT system
          available to ACIF SEM so that, through the necessary material, procedural
          (software and procedures manuals) and human resources, it can obtain timely
          information for decision-making.

   iii)   Provincial Directorate of Highways (DPV by the Spanish acronym). This
          is a body placed within the structure of the Provincial Ministry of
          Infrastructure with a view to providing support to the human and material
          resources of DPV for it to be able to act as Works Manager, the task it has
          been appointed to perform. This would translate into a strengthening of the
          areas of road safety, social and environmental management, works
          supervision, strategic planning, budget delivery and performance-based
          management. In this regard, a road safety plan would be implemented for



                                          59
           DPV across the whole province, with special emphasis on the CREMA area
           and the towns crossed by the stretches of road to be paved under this project.
           Additionally, training would be provided to a sub-group of low-performing
           road consortia, with the purpose of improving their technical and managerial
           capabilities.

On the other hand, another two actors not originally envisaged in the PAD participated in
this sub-component: the Directorate of Road Accidents Prevention (DPAT) and the
Secretariat for Innovation and Management Monitoring.
DPAT is in charge of issuing road safety standards in the province. It is trying out
training options among the inhabitants of the towns covered by the paving initiative
under the Programme, as well as of the urban areas under CREMA The purpose is to
provide DPAT with resources for carrying out specific actions on the targeted roads and
improving the information system on road accidents.

The Secretariat for Innovation and Management Monitoring is in charge of defining and
implementing strategic plans for innovation, streamlining and technological development
of the Provincial Government.

2) Component II — Rehabilitation and Maintenance Contracts
The idea of this component was to carry out rehab works (such as base reconstruction,
resurfacing or asphalt paving) and routine maintenance works along three priority roads
of the provincial network, through the so-called CREMA Contracts. The component
intends to carry out rehabilitation and maintenance works along approximately 424 km,
in three sub-networks, through three CREMA performance-based contracts. The basic
estimated cost for implementing these contracts throughout their duration is 39.46 million
US dollars.

3) Component III – Paving Works
This component is targeted to financing road paving in six provincial road sections of
priority roads, which are key routes in the productive fabric of the Province. The paving
programme consists of six priority contracts for a total length of 174.26 km. Works under
each contract include paving of a stretch with important traffic volumes. This paving
programme will design and implement appropriate maintenance strategies to ensure the
sustainability of the works.

4) Component IV – Operating Expenses
Different external Programme audits would be hired under this component.


II. IMPLEMENTATION

A) Implementation Structure

a.1) Córdoba’s Agency for Investment and Financing Sociedad de Economía Mixta
(A.C.I.F. S.E.M.)



                                           60
On 13 November 2006, a Subsidiary Agreement was entered into by the Government of
Cordoba Province and Agencia Córdoba de Inversión y Financiamiento Sociedad de
Economía Mixta (Cordoba’s Agency for Investment and Financing) by which the
Province ratifies the delegation of powers conferred upon the latter by Law No. 9050, in
its capacity as Provincial Executing Unit, to perform the duties related to coordination
and implementation of the “Programme for Improving Provincial Roads in Cordoba
Province”, IBRD Loan 7398-AR. Agencia Córdoba de Inversión y Financiamiento
Sociedad de Economía Mixta (A.C.I.F. – S.E.M.), was created by Law No. 9050. It is a
mixed-economy company in which the Cordoba provincial government owns 99% and
Córdoba Bursátil S.A. the remaining one percent. Since it is partly privately-owned, it
must meet the provisions of Law 19,550 on corporations as regards the submission and
contents of its reports. Additionally, it must fulfill State regulations. Provincial Law 9050
provided it with jurisdiction for centralizing all activities as regards planning,
management, coordination, implementation, follow-up and evaluation of programmes
and projects receiving international and national technical assistance, financing and/or
subsidies.

In fulfillment of its mission, A.C.I.F. – S.E.M. is the Provincial Executing Unit for all
public investment programmes that receive external funding from the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB), the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(IBRD) and other international financing agencies, such as the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD) or the Andean Development Corporation (CAF in the
Spanish acronym). It also manages loan transactions with the Federal Fiduciary Fund for
Regional Infrastructure to build important works located in the province.

ACIF’s Capacity. Staff, facilities and equipment.

As regards its capacity to implement the Project, it is worth mentioning that, since 2002,
ACIF has managed the implementation of several World Bank-funded projects, as well as
projects financed by other agencies. ACIF has a Financial Management and Contracts
Unit for the above-mentioned programmes, with specialized staff experienced in the
matter. Staff is increased according to each project’s needs. The working team works in
close cooperation with the Agency’s Legal and Technical Departments.

In turn, ACIF works with external Technical Executing Units (TEUs) which are the
government agencies in charge of processing the requests for contracting works,
purchasing goods and procuring services in a centralized manner through A.C.I.F. S.E.M.

a.2) Project sub-executing agencies

Within the implementation framework of the Programme for Improving Provincial Roads,
three institutions were originally foreseen to participate:

   •   Cordoba’s Agency for Investment and Financing (A.C.I.F. S.E.M.).




                                             61
   •   The former Ministry of Public Works and Services, Cordoba Province (currently
       the Infrastructure Ministry), through the Provincial Directorate of Highways
       (DPV).
   •   Ministry of Finance, Cordoba Province (MoF).

Subsequently, the programme required the participation of two other institutions:
- The Directorate of Road Accidents Prevention (D.P.A.T.), within the Ministry of
Security, and
- The Secretariat for Innovation and Management Monitoring, within the Ministry of
Management.

B) Amendments to the Original Project

This Programme originally envisaged project completion by 31 October 2012. Project
authorities then requested an extension given the need to complete procurement included
in the last Procurement Plan for reallocating the remaining amounts. The Bank approved
project extension until 31 October 2013 in a letter dated 6 September that attached a
“Restructuring Paper” with the approved Project amendments.

Cordoba Province then submitted to the Bank a request for fund reallocation in the
Programme Financing Matrix, so as to increase financing of the Institutional
Strengthening Component in the amount of USD 800,000 and the Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Works Component in the amount of USD 1,250,000, diminishing funding
for Paving Works (Component 3) in the amount of USD 2,050,000.

C) Implementation by Component: Delivered vs. Foreseen

c.1) Institutional Strengthening Component

As regards Institutional Strengthening, the project worked continuously with the targeted
agencies on the identified weaknesses and an important element was added, i.e., road
safety on the Cordoba roads, thanks to the fact that the Ministry of Finance and the
Provincial Directorate of Highways worked side-by-side and with their own funds to
improve the structure of IT systems and indicators for civil society on provincial
resources and expenditure, as well as to reinforce the necessary human and material
resources to ensure its proper functioning as a guiding agency for road policies in the
province.

In view of the above, action policies using local funds to further priority needs based on
the normal development of these agencies were adopted thanks to the momentum
generated by the Programme, when jointly analyzing the identified weaknesses in each of
the provincial government sectors for project implementation. This prompt action
allowed the release of programme funds for reinforcing the road safety policy across
Cordoba province, through the Directorate of Road Accidents Prevention.

c.1.a) Ministry of Finance Sub-component


                                           62
We can state that the Ministry of Finance accepted the criticism of experts from the
World Bank Governance Area and, while awaiting the Programme to become effective,
started working on the mitigation of the weaknesses in budget formulation as well as in
financial aggregation in Cordoba Province.

Processes foreseen in the original Procurement Plan of the programme for this
Subcomponent were the following:

(i) Module 1.1. Financial Aggregation of Public Expenditure

(ii) Module 1.2. Plan of Action for Contingent Liabilities

(iii) Module 1.3. Strengthening of the Budget Process

All processes foreseen under the modules of this Sub-component were cancelled because
they were implemented with local funds.

- To date the Ministry of Finance has a Financial Aggregation system installed for all the
government’s administrative services. System re-engineering was not only based on the
adjustment of procedures, processes, document templates and IT systems but also
translated into a norm-based rearrangement of all the sector’s activities. Furthermore,
within the framework of a policy of continuous update based on new technologies, the
Ministry allocates its own resources, both human and financial, with a view to improving
productivity and the outcomes of information processes.

- With regard to Contingent Liabilities, at the end of 2007, the political sector of the
Province decided to cancel this objective since a decision was made to prioritize a more
detailed analysis of all Contingent Liabilities, not only out-of-the-court but also court-
related liabilities and all activities in which the State is a party to. Therefore, the scope set
forth was not within the programme’s responsibility.

- On the other hand, using Ministry of Finance funds and pursuant to the
recommendations set forth by World Bank consultants, progress was made in creating a
Budget Management System which was completed in mid-August 2007, with the
development of software as well as the training of each of the reference persons at the
different Ministries, Agencies and other offices that are part of the Provincial
Government. In this regard, the actions of the General Directorate for Public Investment
and Budget that carried out joint activities with the IT Manager’s Office of the Ministry
of Finance were impeccable and decisive for quickly starting up the implementation of
the system. As planned, this allowed the drawing up of the 2008 budget and that for the
following years in a timely and proper manner, without any major difficulties, which
showed the level of commitment undertaken by each of the participants in this process
and the soundness of the Budget Management System. Budget statements were generated
on the basis of the above systems.




                                               63
In brief, the processes were cancelled because the objectives were fulfilled without the
need for any financing from the programme.

c.1.b) Cordoba’s Agency for Investment and Financing S.E.M. Sub-component

As regards the institutional strengthening of Cordoba’s Agency for Investment and
Financing S.E.M., we can divide activities into four areas:

a) Human Resources, with the hiring of consultants for the programme;
b) Software, through the implementation of UEPEX and other provincial systems such as
SGO (objective-based management system), and STRATEGOS, based on the analysis of
goals achieved and qualitative and quantitative information;
c) Basic Equipment, mainly referred to the streamlining of the Agency’s IT equipment;
and
d) Training in the quest for ensuring staff remains updated as per the technical needs.

The following was funded under this component:
   • PMCP Consulting Services (Executive Coordinator + Head of Procurement Dept.
       + Senior Consultant + Road Facilitator + Legal Advisor), Tickets and Per diem
       for the Working Team:
   • Services of PMCP Operations Manual Consultant
   • Desk Computers and printers
   • Institutional video on the Programme for Improving Provincial Roads in Cordoba
       Province (PMCP – IBRD Loan 7398 AR)
   • ACIF SEM IT Equipment. Hardware and Software Update for Strengthening
       ACIF SEM.
   • Procurement of critical IT Equipment (database) for the Processing Supercenter of
       Cordoba Province: This process was included within the framework of a series of
       acquisitions and investments being carried out by Cordoba Province Government,
       with a view to ensuring the technological re-engineering, consolidation and
       enhancement of the Data Processing Supercenter’s capability, to provide the
       necessary resources in support of current and foreseen applications for the next
       five years, thus warranting a better and greater use of IT resources in the Province.

Consulting services on the Management Model and implementation of a changes follow-
up system at ACIF; Consulting services on the Design of the Organizational Structure
and implementation of organizational changes; critical process manuals for ACIF,
Development of software for Financial Administration at ACIF; Desktops and printers at
ACIF: the above was foreseen in the programme, and carried out with ACIF resources
and staff. The same happened with the consulting services for training UTES. The scope
of the consultancy to train the Sector-Based Technical Executing Units 24 which are


24
  UTES are the government’s technical bodies such as the Directorate of Highways, the Provincial
Directorate of Architecture, the Ministry of Government, Ministry of Education, etc.



                                              64
directly or indirectly linked to the Agency, with regard to proprietary procedures set forth
in each of the Programmes with International Loan Organizations, has been reduced since
many of the technical players (UTES) have consolidated their processes through
cooperation agreements. Therefore, the group to be trained has shrunk and the purpose of
procurement is to create the necessary tools so that the technical and administrative areas
of ACIF and UTES can manage the projects under ACIF’s responsibility.

c.1.c) Provincial Directorate of Highways Sub-component (DPV - Dirección Provincial
de Vialidad)

The loan funded the following activities:

   •   T.A. for CREMA supervision (2 civil engineers + 2 road engineers + 2
       topographers and training in CREMA for DPV): In 2007, the Provincial
       Directorate of Highways took on noteworthy professionals who allowed an
       orderly and detailed execution of the works, and thus hired staff was discharged.
       Furthermore, thanks to the World Bank’s collaboration, DPV staff received
       training within the framework of a strategy organized by this financing institution
       which led to the termination of consulting resources.
   •   Training on PMCP’s productive impact on the Municipalities: In the second
       half of 2010, the final report was submitted on Assessment of the Project’s
       Medium-Term Impact. Report conclusions appear in Exhibit III.A.1.
   •   IT Equipment at DPAT – Road Safety: The process was completed for providing
       the necessary IT equipment (Computers and printers) to DPAT for its application
       to the RePAT project (Provincial Registry of Traffic Records). This is used as an
       information base for the interprovincial modular system of driving licenses called
       ReNAT (National Registry of Traffic Records).
   •   Dynamic weigh scales and ticketing machines for controlling Vehicle weight:
       the process originated within the Road Safety Programme and was promoted by
       the Cordoba Provincial government. Sixteen (16) mobile scales and weighbridges
       were initially under the custody of the Directorate of Road Accidents Prevention
       (DPAT) so as to be distributed by the Provincial Traffic Police Forces across the
       province, with a view to carrying out random checks. Currently, DPAT has
       delegated the responsibility of these checks to DPV, through agreements with
       different municipalities across the province.
   •   Breathalyzers for DPAT: Breathalyzers have been successfully used at Traffic
       Police check points.
   •   Hiring of an Individual consultant’s services to carry out the Final Impact
       Assessment of the Programme for Improving Provincial Roads in Cordoba
       Province – IBRD Loan 7398 AR
   •    Purchase of IT and Technological Equipment for the Traffic and Road Safety
       Commission, RePAT, Road Observatory and Data Processing Supercenter of
       Cordoba Province: Within the framework of the last Bank Supervision Mission
       (July 2013), ACIF mentioned the existence of a remaining unallocated balance
       already disbursed by the Bank. It thus committed itself to submitting a
       procurement proposal to the Bank for the Programme’s Institutional


                                            65
       Strengthening Component. Having met with the different Programme components,
       different needs were identified to be covered with the remaining loan funds. In
       this regard, DPAT stated the need to reinforce road safety management in
       Cordoba Province, for which it would be necessary to equip three key agencies,
       namely: a) the Provincial Traffic Commission which includes all the Province’s
       Municipalities and Towns, to coordinate and implement road safety policies in
       urban areas, consistent with the Province’s policies. Among its duties are the
       auditing of driving license issuance centres and of misdemeanour courts, and the
       follow-up of accidents at the Province’s departmental levels, through single
       Protocols but in a decentralized manner; b) RePAT (National Registry of Traffic
       Records) which is the IT system recording all traffic-related activities, managing
       traffic fines, trying of fines, driver disqualification, driving license issuance, fine
       collection and driving tests; c) the Road Observatory which forces to generate
       “Accident Reports” that must be entered into the computer so as to draw up a geo-
       referenced map and apply the Accident Analysis Method.
   •   On the other hand, a technological update process is being carried out by the
       Government of Cordoba Province which started with the purchase of integrated
       data servers in a cluster solution ensuring high availability of the operating system,
       funded by P.M.C.P.

The following activities foreseen to be funded under the loan were either implemented by
DPV technical staff with the Directorate’s own resources or cancelled:

   •   Training of Road Consortia (ticket and per diem): from 2006 to date, DPV
       qualified technical staff taught intensive courses on an annual or semi-annual
       basis, according to different needs and topics.
   •   Training on Road Safety; readjustment of traffic templates: vis-à-vis the
       impossibility of carrying out this readjustment process before the programme’s
       closing date, the activity was dropped and the pertinent amount was reallocated to
       another process within the same Institutional Strengthening component.
   •   Road Safety Training (tickets and per diems): DPAT has delivered and continues
       to deliver courses not only in the urban and rural areas in which the Programme
       supports works but also in other provincial localities.
   •   DPV Training in Environmental Assessments: With the support of the National
       Roads Directorate, the National Environment Secretariat or the Provincial
       Environment Secretariat, DPV staff has participated in several courses on
       environmental assessment formulation so the process was already eliminated from
       the previous Procurement Plan.
   •   Printing of Manuals and Printing services overall.
   •   Awareness-raising ads campaign: it is being carried out through DPAT, an
       agency under the Ministry of Government and Security, so this resource was also
       dropped from the programme.
   •   Facilities – Furniture and IT Equipment for the Provincial Directorate of
       Highways. Renewal of Hardware and Software for the works manager’s office:
       Technical specifications were to be sent by targeted components. In view of the
       above, and given the Borrower’s decision to allocate the greatest amount possible


                                            66
       of funds to the project on “Procurement of Integrated Data Servers in a cluster
       solution ensuring high availability of the operating system and information back-
       up for the Cordoba Province Processing Supercenter”, the decision was made to
       drop these processes and reallocate the pertinent amount to the above-mentioned
       new project. These amendments were maintained until the end of the programme.

c.2) Rehabilitation and Maintenance Component (CREMA)

- CREMA 1 (Rehabilitation and Maintenance Contract No. 1. Works: Provincial Route
No 4 - Section: Int. PR No. 2; Etruria; Santa Eufemia; La Carlota; Provincial Route No.
11 Section: Chazón; Pascanas): Process was cancelled because of a lack of sufficient
funding.

- CREMA 2 (Rehabilitation and Maintenance Contract No. 2. Works: Provincial Route
No. 4 - Section: La Carlota; Laboulaye; Int. NR No. 7; Melo; PR No. 27; Bouchardo):
Process cancelled due to a lack of sufficient funding.

- CREMA 3. Rehabilitation and Maintenance Contract No. 3. Works: Provincial Route
No. 12 Section: Marcos Juárez – Int. National Route No. 8. Provincial Route E-59
Stretch: Crossroads Provincial Route No. 2 (Noetinger) - Crossroads National Route No.
9 (Leones). On 02 November 2012 a “Certificate confirming Works Defects” was issued
stating that three months after the “Completion certificate for recovery works and other
mandatory interventions” the works showed no defects to be corrected. In May 2013,
works maintenance activities were completed.

c.3) Paving Component

- Paving of Provincial Route No. 23. Section: Crossroads at access to Caleras – Entry
Arch to Alpa Corral: Process Cancelled. Bidding Process: 1959/2008. Bids were opened
on 27 May 2008. The Evaluation Committee decided that the lowest price was over 20%
higher than the official budget. This call for bids was dropped because of an inconvenient
price and the World Bank informed the Programme would not be able to fund this
process.

- Construction of Provincial Route S-253. Section: Despeñaderos – Monte Ralo –
Corralito - Río Tercero: The purpose of executing these works was to avoid people along
this corridor from having to use National Route No. 36 for traveling to Rio Tercero and
the provincial Capital city, and consequently reduce transport costs and time, thus
strongly promoting the economy in one of the most productive regions of the Province.

The works faced certain difficulties due to lack of foresight. Anyhow, the Works
Inspection Unit of the Provincial Directorate of Highways was able to organize tasks and
the works were completed within a reasonable period, with good quality execution.

- Paving of Provincial Routes S-210 and S-273. Section: Crossroads at access to Los
Reartes – Crossroads at access to Villa Berna: The execution of these works aimed at



                                           67
producing a high impact on the region’s tourist development, supplemented with a big
private sector investment in hotels, cottages, gastronomy, etc. This tourist circuit that
connects Villa General Belgrano-Los Reartes-Villa Berna and La Cumbrecita is one of
the most important in the region – characterized by big pine forests and central-European
buildings in the towns -, and has achieved a remarkable level of development with a
235% growth from 1990 to 2004. On 28 April 2009, the Contractor submitted to D.P.V.’s
consideration, Request No. 27 containing Works Amendment No 1 consisting of the
replacement of the proposed bridge and of 700 meters of road with steep slopes and sharp
curves, for a 30-meter high, 240-km long “mega bridge”. On 23 November 2010,
D.P.V.’s decision to go back to a readjusted and improved original project was submitted
to Project Manager Dr. Verónica Raffo, together with the supporting information.

On 17 February 2011, by Letter No. 104/2001 “Amendment No. 1” was submitted to the
World Bank for its No Objection. Also attached was the full file for information and
analysis purposes.

A letter dated 18 April 2011 provided the World Bank’s No Objection to the proposed
Works Amendment No. 1.

On 15 June 2012, the partial final acceptance certificates were issued for the works
contract between chainages 4,000 and 23,500 and chainages 25,375 and 30,930.
Resolution A.C.I.F. No. 057 of 21 May 2012 approved two previous final acceptance
certificates.

- Paving of Provincial Route E-52. Section: Carrilobo – Pozo del Molle: the main
purpose was to link a broad soy producing area thru the main provincial road corridors to
the port, comprising provincial and national routes, such as PR No. 13, PR No. 3 and NR
No. 9. It is located in the Río Segundo department which is a part of the so-called “Zone
2” farming area. The works faced many difficulties essentially because of delays in the
contractor’s execution term but thanks to the knowledge and leadership of the Works
Inspection Unit, Provincial Directorate of Highways, and the negotiation capabilities of
the Programme’s authorities, the works were completed without need for terminating the
contract.

- Paving of Provincial Routes S-388 and T-106-10. Section: Los Zorros – NR No. 158
(La Playosa): This area is characterized by a significant level of farming activities. The
works were organized normally during the first nine months, and were even over and
above the foreseen progress curve. Works were carried out with the appropriate
equipment and staff despite the fact that the equipment suffered frequent and unusual
breakdowns. As from the tenth month and until the thirteenth month there was a delay in
the works as a result of rainfall in the area, which was also worsened by the economic
crisis, scarcity of material and roadblocks which did not allow a normal supply of inputs.
As from the fourteenth month and until completion of the works on 7 May 2009, the
works resumed their normal pace and made up for the delays given the favourable
climate conditions and the fact that the Company added an important amount of
equipment to complete the tasks, given the pressure exerted by the D.P.V. Inspection



                                           68
Unit and the A.C.I.F. Coordination Office. The works were executed according to the
drawings, bidding specs and instructions provided by the D.P.V. Inspection Unit.

- Paving of Provincial Routes E-91 and S-212. Section: San Vicente – Los Cerrillos –
on the border with San Luis province: This route is located in the West of the Province
between the San Alberto and San Javier Departments. It is a potato growing area, the
second in importance at national level after Balcarce. It therefore needs to be accessible
all year round, mainly in the rainy season, which is the potato harvest season, so as to be
able to send production via PR E-91 and NR No. 20 to Villa Dolores, for its distribution
to the rest of the Province and country.

It is worth highlighting that the contract amounts for each of the above-mentioned works,
under the Rehabilitation and Maintenance Component, as well as under the Paving
Component, were increased in view of the monthly adjustments due to redetermination of
prices in each of the works, pursuant to the methodology of the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), reflected in the formulae and parameters
established in the pertinent bidding conditions and specifications.


III) IMPLEMENTATION PROBLEMS AND PROGRAM WEAKNESSES

As mentioned above, the Program underwent several evaluations and audits which
allowed the identification of some implementation and project design problems.

   1) Institutional Strengthening Component

ACIF Subcomponent

Although the Loan Agreement required the strengthening of ACIF’s initial structure with
the participation of consultants hired using programme funds, and this allowed a
significant improvement in the processes, it is also true that –especially towards the end
of the programme- the number of consultants decreased and transfer of knowledge and of
the project’s history was not always appropriate. This fact, and successive changes in the
authorities of provincial organizations and ACIF, caused some difficulties –particularly
when sharing information about the programme-; nonetheless the ACIF team was able to
overcome those difficulties through the revision of Aide Memoirs or the consultation
with Bank professional staff.

On the other hand, when analyzing the implementation of the Programme, World Bank
consultants had noted that the IT system then in place at the Agency for the registration
and processing of data had flaws and/or deficiencies, both in its methodological and
security aspects. Therefore an adaption or migration to a more stable platform was
requested which would allow working in an environment that was more consistent with a
World Bank Direct Loan (Programme).




                                            69
The UEPEX system was implemented satisfactorily and is currently operational: it
contains information from the programme’s inception. However, in order to maintain the
“pari-passu” ratio in U.S. dollars duly agreed upon with the Bank in the loan agreement,
the UEPEX system requires conversion of payments, contributions and investments made
with provincial funds and with other funding sources (source 22). But since UEPEX uses
a different conversion system, it is necessary to adjust the amount of contributions and
investments made, which will be equivalent to the total amount of investments by local
and external sources (data extracted from UEPEX) plus the balance converted into dollars
of the bank account associated with the programme.

On the other hand, although significant progress was made in the registration of processes
in the Procurement Plans Execution System (SEPA) required by the Bank, a complete
coordination in the UEPEX – SEPA interface was never achieved, mainly due to the
different criteria used by the two systems to group expenditure categories and to carry out
the conversion into U.S. dollars. This required entering data twice.

DPV Sub-component

Although a diagnosis was carried out regarding institutional capacity, which detected
needs in training, institutional strengthening in planning and in data collection processes
of the road network (traffic, roughness, deflections), as well as the need to receive
technical assistance in load control in order to implement a permanent system, and also to
provide for the integral planning of the road networks using technical-economic
evaluation models for road projects and procurement of goods, and although the original
procurement plan envisaged a series of processes in order to address those needs, few
actions were taken to strengthen the Provincial Directorate of Highways. However, local
funds were used to that end.

   2) Paving, Rehabilitation and Maintenance Works Components

Initially the Programme for Improving Provincial Roads (PMCP in the Spanish acronym)
was prepared on the basis of an assessment of the specific projects identified, which gave
rise to the Project Document (PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT) dated 24 May
2006. The projects assessed at the time were defined at profile level (drafts). Works costs
were calculated as at October 2005 and adjusted afterwards as at March 2006, and for the
purpose of economic appraisal, the standard vehicle fleet type was defined using the
operating costs for vehicles from COSTOP of that year (Costs of Operation published by
the National Road Agency). This initial programme included 6 paving works and 3
CREMA contracts.

Later, based on engineering studies, the initial projects were adjusted in order to submit
the specific paving projects and basic projects for CREMA contracts to the World Bank
for its “no objection”, and instead of implementing six paving works only five were
implemented, whereas of the three CREMA Contracts, only one was implemented. The
reduction in the number of projects was due to price increases for the works and to the
adjustment of projects in order to fulfill the feasibility stage.



                                            70
As already pointed out when describing processes executed and completed, in some
paving works 25 there were difficulties in connection with execution deadlines –either due
to reasons related to the respective contractors or due to changes in Project execution–
which led to extending the deadlines in order to finish them with the least degree of
conflict.


IV. THE WORLD BANK AND SUPERVISION TEAM

A) Supervision Teams and Degree of Engagement with the Project

Once the Loan Agreement IBRD 7398-AR was signed, for financing the Provincial
Roads Improvement Project, the Bank appointed a team to support the Provincial
Executing Agency (A.C.I.F. S.E.M.) throughout project execution.

During Supervision Missions, the World Bank TTL provided support together with a
team of experts in the following areas: roads, procurement, financial, social and
environmental aspects, among others. Furthermore, the disbursements team in Brasilia
rendered support.

Both the TTL and the team of experts of the Bank were very knowledgeable about
programme details and their engagement with the Project was high. This aspect is very
important because such thorough knowledge allowed them to more efficiently address the
problems encountered by the Project.

Regarding knowledge of public sector aspects in Argentina and in Cordoba province, the
experts showed broad knowledge as well as understanding vis-à-vis changes of
authorities and flexibility as regards changes in local rules which affected the programme
either directly or indirectly.

B) Performance

In the first place, it is worth mentioning that Supervision Missions took place generally
twice a year, including field visits and meetings with authorities and consultants linked to
the Project. Frequency of Supervision Missions is rated as adequate and their quality and
contributions are evaluated as good for the development and success of the Project.

TTL’s performance was rated high, since the thoroughness of her follow-up actions
contributed to the Project’s development, and at all times she showed willingness to
support ACIF, as well as a proactive attitude to address any difficulties that arose.


25
  For example, the paper “Construcción Ruta Provincial S-253. Tramo: Despeñaderos – Monte Ralo –
Corralito – Río Tercero”, and “Pavimentación Rutas Provinciales S-210 y S-273. Tramo: Intersección con
acceso a Los Reartes – Intersección con acceso a Villa Berna”



                                                 71
Moreover, it should be stressed that communications between ACIF and the TTL, as well
as Bank experts, were smooth during Project execution, and they were always willing to
support the processes throughout the different stages, and to help address different
situations as these cropped up.


V. CONCLUSIONS

A) Project Achievements

1) Institutional Strengthening Component

Ministry of Finance Sub-component

The programme’s contribution as a triggering mechanism and catalyst agent of actions
carried out internally within the Ministry of Finance was very important in view of the
weaknesses identified by the Bank’s experts. Although the need to improve the budgetary
formulation process and the need to have access to a system which would allow the
aggregation and consolidation of financial data from all organizations within the
Provincial non-Financial Public Sector was already latent, the decision to move ahead in
a sustainable manner towards the achievement of both objectives arose from the
recommendations and the structuring of the Project. The development and successful
implementation of both components –budgetary formulation and financial aggregation–
carried out entirely by the Ministry’s own staff, has been perhaps the main strength of the
project and ensured that changes became institutional practices. It has also ensured
installed capacity to carry out the necessary adjustments in order to provide for constant
evolution.

The result of the work undertaken by the Ministry of Finance since the inception of the
programme has been to achieve a public finance policy open to civil society on the origin
and the application of provincial resources and the provincial investment plan embodied
in each of the budgetary laws in force, which can be accessed at the government’s
webpage (www.cba.gov.ar).

Within this context and under the Social Responsibility approach –reflecting the intent of
organizations to incorporate social and environmental considerations into their decision-
making processes and to be accountable for their impact– the Ministry of Finance of
Cordoba Province issued the First Sustainability Report, which was validated by the
Global Reporting Initiative (G.R.I), the only international organization which validates
the methodological framework used to evaluate an organization’s sustainability. Thus, the
above-mentioned Ministry became the First Public Organization in Argentina to prepare
a report with a GRI-validated framework.
Through the Sustainability Report, the Ministry of Finance presents actions carried out on
the basis of the Social Responsibility approach, reporting matters intrinsic to its identity
as an organization and to its role in society, connecting the sustainable development



                                            72
objective with actions taken in Transparency, Organizational Evolution, links with
Citizens and matters related to Care of the Environment.

ACIF Sub component

Prior to the implementation of the Project, ACIF was already operational and was
managing a large number of projects with different sources of financing. Diversity of
systems used for data recording from different projects, the amount of information to be
displayed in different degrees of detail and the variety of individual applicants to which
the information was made available, rendered the review and interactions required to
carry out any project especially complex. The requirements of the PMCP included,
among others, one related to the fact that ACIF should implement a system which would
allow it to centralize, analyze and use the physical and financial information available in
the proper manner. This was achieved thanks to the use of the UEPEX system. Training
of ACIF staff in the use of this managing system allowed improvement in the transfer of
information between the planning and execution phases. Although as already mentioned,
an adequate running of the interface with SEPA was not always achieved; the data entry
process is constant, which allows for regular and adequate follow-up of payments,
contributions and investments made. UEPEX also provided most of the data necessary to
feed into the SEPA system regarding each of the processes and their management, and
thus access by civil society to information in connection with programmes financed by
international organizations was made public and transparent through government
management actions.

Implementation of PMCP brought about, as required by the Loan Agreement, the
appointment of a team made up of fully qualified professionals to carry out the tasks
assigned to A.C.I.F. S.E.M., who joined the staff that worked there prior to the project,
and thus managed to disseminate the knowledge of World Bank rules and procedures.

At present, A.C.I.F. has a trained team of professionals and the overlap of functions has
been avoided, by prioritizing well-defined responsibilities.

Additionally, through the purchase of IT equipment for ACIF offices, remarkable
progress has been made in the availability of material resources appropriate for the
operational needs imposed by different processes being carried out by ACIF, while the
contribution from programme funds to technological re-engineering undertaken by the
Provincial Government through the extension and modernization of the Data Processing
Supercenter has resulted in an improvement in the use of information systems.

Although both the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and the Loan Agreement IBRD
7398 -AR envisaged that the loan should support A.C.I.F. S.E.M. to strengthen, among
other fields, the project programming and monitoring area, no specific projects were
executed within the framework of the P.M.C.P. for the implementation of this objective,
due to the fact that at that time a strategy was put into operation at the provincial
government level, with funds from another loan (Loan IBD1765/OC AR), called




                                            73
Objective-based Management System (SGO). The software Strategos was adopted and
work on the government’s annual planning was started.

When the first SGO activities commenced, the provincial Executive Branch was
organized into twenty jurisdictions which managed their projects independently. Every
time the Governor or a minister needed to be informed on the progress or result of a
Project, he had to get in touch with the person in charge who knew the details, outputs,
goals and the execution schedule. In turn, each ministry reported progress to the
Governor in different formats, which hindered consolidation of the information necessary
to have a global vision of the provincial management. On the other hand, lack of
centralized planning prevented inter-ministry coordination and made the allocation of
resources according to expected results difficult. In this context, management follow-up
and monitoring, and the possibility of carrying out readjustments in order to achieve
objectives when deviations were detected was a task impossible to achieve.

In view of the above, the Objective-Based Management System (S.G.O) was
implemented. The SGO development component was designed to improve agency
management through a system which required the organizations to plan and set goals for
their projects. The committed outputs consisted of integrating twenty organizations
(among them A.C.I.F.) into the S.G.O and into the development of a management system.

Throughout its implementation, P.M.C.P. was aligned with the general policies of the
Provincial government and was able to respond consistently and systematically to the
information requirements for the proper operation of the system. .

For the past three years, planning has started to be linked to budget. In the preparation of
the fiscal year 2013 budget, work on detailed budgeting of activities for some projects
was undertaken. Currently, it is not possible to request a budget line if the request is not
linked to planning and if no associated indicators are available. Publishing of government
plans is carried out annually and it is integrated with the budget. They can be accessed at
the website of the Cordoba Province Government www.cba.gov.ar, Ministry of Finance,
“Budget” link. Moreover, it is important to stress that the process of integration with the
budget is automated within the cycle of request and annual budget approval. That is to
say, if a new organization is created, this new agency cannot request its budget line
without first drawing up a plan to support it. At present, all organizations from the
Provincial Executive Branch (PEB), including A.C.I.F., have defined action plans. If
agencies do not outline their plan, no budget is allocated to them as the planning and
budgeting functions are integrated with one another.

Although in 2012 the SGO computer tool was not used, all the ministries of the
Provincial Executive Branch carried out their planning in 2013. They have 151 defined
strategic objectives, 168 results indicators, 546 initiatives and 653 output indicators.
However, the planning is not integrated into a provincial plan for the medium-long term.




                                            74
DPV – DPAT Sub-component

In the period 2008-2012, deaths resulting from accidents in the province of Cordoba were
reduced by 42%, representing 151 less deaths a year due to accidents (down from 360 to
209 deaths a year). The mortality rate, considered as deaths per 100,000 vehicles in
intercity zones, was reduced from 64 in the year 2008 to 31 in the year 2012, very close
to the provincial target level (to have less than 30 deaths per 100,000 vehicles during a
calendar year). This reduction is mainly due to reinforced controls carried out by Traffic
Police under the jurisdiction of DPAT, and particularly to blood alcohol-level
measurements. Breathalyzers purchased with programme funds were used for this
purpose.

2) Paving, Rehabilitation and Maintenance Components

According to the project’s final Impact Assessment Report, 26 after consolidating the
different indicator appraisals, the Programme for Improving Provincial Roads has had a
satisfactory performance. In this regard, based on the processing of the surveys, the report
shows that 100% of respondents expressed a high degree of satisfaction regarding the
works carried out, indicating positive effects in all aspects related to the indirect and
direct impact indicators concerning improvement in outbound-production transport and
reduction in transport costs, an increase in tourism in La Cumbrecita tourist zone,
improved access to hospitals and schools, improved bus frequency, substantial
improvement of the roughness index, improvement of the transport service –this entailed
a corresponding decrease in vehicle operation costs and travel time and increased regular
traffic, increased land value, among others. Some weaknesses were also pointed out in
the opinion of users which will require improvements at a later stage, and are mainly
connected to the need for reinforcing cargo control, speed control and routine
maintenance of the roads involved.

Additionally, the analysis of the impact indicators of specific projects provides, among
others, the following results: a benefited population of 332,246 inhabitants from
municipalities and communities in the project’s area of influence, and 96,832 inhabitants
at a distance of less than 2 km from the road’s layout in the projects’ area of influence,
improvement in GGP: 30.9 % increase in the Province’s Geographical Gross Product at
1993 constant values, between 2006 and 2011; 6.8 million tons of production a year
estimated ex post in the area of influence of the projects, that is shipped using the
executed roads; reduction in the cost of tons per km of transport by 0.455 $/tn.km for the
Paving Programme (reduction of 28%) and 0,034 $/tn.km for the CREMA Contract
(reduction of 4.8%), at April 2013 values; 20 hospitals benefitting from accessibility; an
average of 3,000 hospital referrals using the roads improved under six projects; 38


26
  The executive summary of this assessment is included in an Annex to this report, since it provides details
of the project’s direct and indirect impacts.




                                                    75
education centers benefited from accessibility in order to provide educational services to
children and teenagers, improved access conditions for 456 farm entrances and 144
accesses to local roads, for all the works under the Programme; substantial growth of
average traffic by 184%; reduction of the IRI at an average of 79%; reduction of routine
maintenance costs in approximately USD 470 thousand a year; increase in the number of
tourists in the area of La Cumbrecita, from 41,000 a year to 60,000 tourists a year, with a
resulting increase in their spending, totaling 6,250,000 USD/year.

On the other hand, analysis of the programme’s physical and financial management
indicators demonstrate that initial disbursement expectations have been met since the
total disbursed amount as at 13 June 2013 represents 100 % of the loan amount.
Regarding the total number of kilometers originally identified (598.2 km), finally 262 km
were executed (5 works from the paving program + 1 under CREMA) accounting for a
44% compliance with the original physical goal, due to the effects of the project’s update
during the loan’s execution, supply and demand conditions and price re-determination,
among others. Paving works within the Programme for Improving Provincial Roads in
Cordoba Province had an average equivalent cost updated as of March 2013 of USD 0.56
million/km; this cost is considered efficient when compared to other paving road works
financed by IBRD and IDB.

The report also points out that based on the indicators related to road network
management, it appears that the paved network in Cordoba in “good” conditions
increased from 38.5 km in 2007 to 1,182.6 km in 2009, representing a growth from 2% to
39%, which is an important improvement of the road network’s maintenance global
management indicator.

B) Lessons Learned and Challenges

Despite the above-mentioned achievements, there are still several issues that need to be
addressed in order to reach sustainability over time of the actions and works carried out
within the framework of the programme. Also, there are a series of lessons learned that
will prove useful for future projects.

    • It is important to take into account, at the time of formulating project documents
      and procurement plans, that the execution of the projects is consistent with the
      programme objectives, and there must also be an appropriate planning
      methodology. Furthermore, price contingencies should be foreseen for future
      programmes being designed, values should be in accordance with the variation of
      dollar-denominated prices, in order to calculate the quantities in physical goals.

   •   It is necessary to continue in-house training at ACIF to ensure that World Bank
       policies, practices and procedures are internalized by staff, in order to avoid
       concentration of “expertise” in one programme or specific persons, as well as to
       prevent political changes from affecting reconstruction of the history of a
       programme or continuation thereof, and to maintain the same level of efficiency,
       and also to avoid loss of knowledge which could be useful for future programmes.



                                            76
•   From the point of view of institutional strengthening, it is necessary to continue
    reinforcing the Government's institutional capacity and that of ACIF in particular,
    to foster efficient planning policies, adequate allocation of resources and the
    improvement of coordination mechanisms with the National Government, the
    ultimate goal of which is the establishment of a sound government system.

•   There is also a need to continue monitoring and evaluating projects, through the
    implementation of more efficient management schemes in order to ensure the
    sustainability of interventions, as well as to encourage the continuous use of
    systems already implemented for the planning and follow-up of projects, so that
    they become daily consultation tools.

•   For those projects that do not include maintenance as an obligation arising from
    the contract entered into by the contractor, the need to improve maintenance of
    the road zone in certain segments and to replace signs and improve the shoulders
    is perceived; in brief, to strengthen actions for routine maintenance in order to
    comply with the goals established in the loan agreement: i.e. 100% of the potholes
    covered, without any section break between the road and the shoulder and 100%
    of horizontal marking and vertical road signs in place for the paved road network.

•   The need to carry out a comprehensive planning of the road network has been
    identified, with a planning model of the HDM-4 type or similar, in such a way so
    as to obtain the road network's multiannual plan of investments, since there is
    updated information available on the road network, it is also necessary to have
    complete and systematic annual measurements of the road network, in order to
    reach coverage of 100% of the paved road network. These actions should be
    supported by institutional strengthening components and the purchase of modern
    measuring instruments and by training in their use (roughness, traffic, deflections).

•   On the other hand, expansion of the paved network lags far behind the growth rate
    of agri-businesses and tourism, and there are still significant problems for the
    maintenance of roads once the programme ends. The condition of the road
    network is essential to support the process of economic recovery along with the
    dynamic growth shown by local and rural economies in Argentina, which depend
    on high rates of mobility and on a trustworthy transport network.

•   An agenda to increase the efficiency of the road sector needs to continue to be
    developed with levels of investment close to growth rates in the medium term; it
    is also necessary to continue implementing a comprehensive road network
    programme, following the steps of projects PCP I, PCP II and PMCP. In this
    regard, it is necessary to have access to new sources of financing which will
    enable the system to be sustainable.
•    It is also of great importance to reinforce road safety controls for circulating
    vehicles, since there is a substantial increase in circulation speed. This was the
    main concern raised by rural schools in view of the increase in speeds.


                                         77
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    78
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

The following documents have been used as sources for the preparation of this ICR, and
can be found in the Project File.

•   ACIF’s Progress Reports, 2007-2013
•   Análisis de la Capacidad de Gestión para la Seguridad Vial (Road Safety Capacity
    Assessment for the Province of Cordoba), E. Howard & N. Rockcliffe, May 2009
•   Country Partnership Strategy for the Republic of Argentina 2004-2006, January 29, 2004
    (Report. No.27340-AR)
•   Evaluación de Impacto Mitad de Término PMPC, E. Travaglianti, Junio 2010
•   Evaluación Final de Impacto del Proyecto PMPC, E. Travaglianti, Julio 2013
•   Implementation Status and Results Reports, series 1 through 13
•   Improving global road safety: Towards equitable and sustainable development. Guidelines
    for country road safety engagement. Tony Bliss & Veronica Raffo. World Bank, (2014)
•   iRAP (International Road Assessment Program) Report for Province of Cordoba, G. Speier et.
    al., March 2009
•   Loan Agreement, Loan N 7398-AR, November 16, 2006
•   Performance-Based Road Contracts (CREMA). A review of fifteen years experience. 1996-
    2010, M. Marcela Silva and Gerard Liautaud, The World Bank, Transport Paper 36,
    September 2011
•   Public Financial Management Assessment, Province of Cordoba, Report Nº: 72402 –AR, led
    by A. Arrobbio and M. Deme, World Bank, July 2012
•   Project Appraisal Document, Report No: 36334 – AR, June 8 2006
•   Project Concept Note, January 2, 2006
•   Project’s Aide Memoires, 2006 -2013
•   Quality at Entry Assessment for FY06-07 (QEA8). Panel members: Maryvonne Plessis-
    Fraissard and Peter Ludwig,, Moderator: Miguel E. Martinez. Observer: Jonas Hermanson,
    Assessment date: May 17, 2007
•   Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio (QALP-2), Panel Members: Miguel E. Martinez;
    Peter Ludwig; Tojoarofenitra Ramanankirahina, Moderator: John Redwood, Assessment Date
    June 22, 2010.Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio
•   Reporte de Sostenibilidad 2010, Ministry of Finance of the Prov. Of Cordoba, Available at
    http://transparencia.cba.gov.ar/Archivos/2.pdf. See also, media coverage at:
    http://comunicarseweb.com.ar/?page=ampliada&id=8724;
    http://prensa.cba.gov.ar/economia/elettore-presento-el-reporte-de-sustentabilidad-2010/
•   Reporte de Sostenibilidad 2011-2012, Ministry of Finance of the Prov. of Cordoba, Available
    at: http://multimedia.cba.gov.ar/web/Reporte_Sustentabilidad_2011_2012_Finanzas.pdf
•   Restructuring Project Paper, Report No: 72299-AR, September 4, 2012
•   Road Construction Costs in Argentina, V. Raffo & E. Travaglianti, LAC Transport Unit
    Working Paper, February 2014.
•   Province of Cordoba (ACIF, Min. of Finance, Min. of Government, DPV and DPAT),
    Completion Report for the PMCP Program (Loan BIRF 7398-AR), February 14, 2014.


                                              79
MAP




80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               20°              70°                                        60°                                             50°        20°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BOLIVIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JU
                                                                              ARGENTINA                                                                                                                                                           CHILE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Y              FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PARAGUAY                                      BRAZIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RM

                           PROVINCIAL ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SALTA                A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TA TUCUMÁN          CHACO             MISIONES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AR    SANTIAGO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CA DEL ESTERO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LA                       CORRIENTES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RIOJA               SANTA
                       PROJECT:                                                                                                EXISTING ROADS:                                                                                 30°                      SAN            Córdoba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      30°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JUAN                        ENTRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RIOS
                         ROAD PAVING                                                                                            FEDERAL NETWORK                                                                                                                         CÓRDOBA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LUIS                   URUGUAY
                         SUB-NETWORK REHABILITATION AND                                                                         PRIMARY PROVINCIAL NETWORK                                                                                                                                             Buenos Aires
                         MAINTENANCE CONTRACT 1 (Malla CReMa 1)                                                                                                                                                                                          MENDOZA
                                                                                                                                SECONDARY PROVINCIAL NETWORK                                                                                                                        BUENOS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PA C I F I C
                         SUB-NETWORK REHABILITATION AND                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AIRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PAMPA
                         MAINTENANCE CONTRACT 2 (Malla CReMa 2)                                                                TOWNS AND VILLAGES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NEUQUÉN

                         SUB-NETWORK REHABILITATION AND                                                                        PROVINCE CAPITAL                                                                                                                  RIO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               40°                            NEGRO                                                                                   40°
                         MAINTENANCE CONTRACT 3 (Malla CReMa 3)
                                                                                                                               RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A T L A N T I C
                                                                                                                               PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                          CHUBUT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               O C E A N


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SANTA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CRUZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FALKLAND ISLANDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (ISLAS MALVINAS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               50°                                                                                                                    50°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A DISPUTE CONCERNING SOVEREIGNTY OVER THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ISLANDS EXISTS BETWEEN ARGENTINA WHICH CLAIMS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           THIS SOVEREIGNTY AND THE U.K. WHICH ADMINISTERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           THE ISLANDS.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TIERRA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DEL
                                                                                                                                                                            SANTIAGO                                                            70°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FUEGO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           60°                                             50°



                                                                                                                                                                            DEL ESTERO

                               CATAMARCA                                Luciov.                                          San Francisco
                                                                       Mansilla                                            del Chañar                           Villade
                                                                                                                                                                María

                                                                          San José
                                                                       Delassalinas                               San Pedro
                                                                                                                      North                                               Sebastian
                                                                                                                                                                          El Cano


                                                                                            Quilino
                                                                                                                             Villa
                                                                                                                           Tulumba                                        Las Arrias
                                                                                                                                               San José
                                                                                                                                               de la Dormida
                                                                                                  Deánfunes

                                                                                                                                           Las Peñas                                                                                             Laguna Mar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Chiquita
            LA RIOJA     Serrezuela                                                                                               V. del Totoral                 Cañada
                                                                                                                                                                 Deluque               Obispo                                                                                                                      Morteros
                                                            Cruz del Eje
                                                                                                                                                                                       Trejo
                                                                          San Marcos                                  Sarmiento                                                                                                                                                                                                        C. Vignaud
                                                                                                      Capilla
                                                                               Sierra                                                                                                                                La Para                                                                             Brinkmann
                                                 Villa de Soto                                        del Monte                                                                    La Puerta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Miramar                                                                     Seeber
                                                                                  San Esteban
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Marull
                                                                                                        La Cumbre                  Jesús María
                                                                                                                                   Jesús
                                             La Higuera
                                                                                                                      La Granja                                                       Santa Rosa                                                         Balnearia                                                             Porteña
                                                                                  Huerta Grande                      Agua de Oro                                                                                     Toro Pujo
                                                                                                                                                                                         Río Primero
                                                                                                                                                                                      de Río
                                                                                                            Salsipuedes                                                                                                                                                                                                       Freyre
                                       San Carlos Minas
                                                                                                           Unquillo
                                                                                          Cosquín
                                                                                          Cosquín                        Juárez Celman Piqullin
                                                                                                                    Est. Juárez                                                                                    La Tordilla
                                                                                                Mendiolaza                                                            Río Primero
                                              Salsacate                               Tanti                                                                                             Santiago
                                                                                                 CÓRDOBA
                                                                                                  ÓRDOBA                         Monte Cristo                                           Temple                                                  El Tío        La Francia                          Devoto
                                                                                                                           Malvinas
                                                                                  V. Carlos Paz                            Argentinas                                                                              Arroyito                                                                                              San Francisco
                                                                                                    Malagueño
                                                                                                    Malagueño
                                                                                                                              Toledo                                            V. del Rosario
                                                                                                                          Lozada                ío Segundo
                                                                                                                                               Río                                         Luque Calchín           Sacanta                                                                  Col. Prosperidad
                                                                                           Alta Gracia                                                      Costa Sacate
                                                             Cura Brochero                                                                 Pilar
                                                                                                                                                             Ma Torrales                                                      El Arañado                                   Saturnno
                                                Mina Clavero
                                                                                                                                 La Gunalarga
                                                                                                                      Despeñaderos
                                                                                                                      Despeñaderos                                                                                                                                         María Laspiur
                                                       Nono                                                                                                                           Las Junturas
                       San Vicente                                                                                                                                                                            Carrilobo
                                                                                                                                                Manfredi
                                                                                               Los Reates                 Monteralo                                                                                                                        Las Varillas
                                         San Pedro
                                           José
                                       San Jos     Villa Dolores Villa Berna                            San
                                                                                                    Agustín
                                                                                                    Agust ín
                                                                                                                                                   Oncativo
                                                                                                                                                                              Colazo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Alica
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  El Fortin                  SANTA FE
                       Los Cerrillos                             San Javier                                                                                                                                                   Pozo del Molle
                                                                                 Santa Rosa                                    Corralito                          Oliva                                 Los Zorros
                                                                             de Calamuchita                                                                                                                           La Playosa
                                                                                                                                                                                  James Craik                                                                San Antonio
                                                                   Villa Yacanto                         V. del Dique            Río Tercero        Villa Ascasubi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Delitín
                                                                 La Paz              Villa Rumipal                      Almafuerte
                                                                                                           Embalse                             Tancacha               Pampayasta          Tío Pujio
                                                                                                                                                                      Sur                                                                                    Cintra
                                                                                                                        Los Condores
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Noetinger
                                                                                   Cañada de
                                                                                   Cañada                                                                                                                                                                         Chilibroste                                        Saira
                                                                                      Álvarez                                                                                                                                Alto Alegre
                                                                                                                                                                  Hernando                            Villa Neuva
                                                                                                                  Berrotarán                                             Acabral
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ballesteros
                                                                                  Río de los                                                                                                                                  Morrison
                                                                                                               Elena
                                                                                     Sauces                                        Punta del Agua           D. Velezs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Leones                        Marcos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Bell Ville                                                        Juárez
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Juárez
                                                                       Alpa Corral                                                                                                     Tioano         Ausona
                                                                                                                                   General Deheza                 Las Perdices
                  SAN LUIS                                                                               Alcira                                                                   Pasco               La Laguna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ordoñez                    Justiniano
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  General
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Roca
                                                                                                                                                     Gral. Cabrera                                                                                       Posse
                                                                                           Coronel Baigorria
                                                                                                                                                                                         Etruria                                                                                       Inriville
                                                                                                                                           Carnerillo                                                                                                                                                                        Los Surgentes
                                                                                                                                                                               Ucacha
                                                                                                                                Charras                                                            Chazón                                                                                                                                 Cruz Alta
                                                                                                                                                                Bengolea                                           Pascanas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          La Borde
                                                                                               Río Cuarto                                                                                                                                             W. Escalante                                                            Camilo Aldao
                                                                                                                                                                             Santa Eufemia                                                                                                     Corral
                                                                                        Santa Catalina                                                                                                                                                                                         de Bustos
                                                          Achiras
                                                                                                                              Las Acequas

                                                                          Sampacho                                                                  Alejandro                                   La Carlota
                                                                                                                                                         Roca             Los Asnes
                                                                                                                        San Basilio                                                                                                                         Guatimozín                       Cavanagh
                                                           Chaján                 Bulnes
                                                                                                                                      Adelia         Monte de
                                                                                                                                      María                                                                         Canals
                                                                                                                                                     los Gauchos                                                                      Benjamín
                                                                              Coronel Moldes                                                                         Huanchilla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Gould                          Arias
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Viamonte

                                                                                                Tosquita
                                                                                                                  Vicuña                                                                                                                        Pueblo
                                                                                                                  Mackenna                                                                               La Cesira                              Italiano
                                                                                                                                 La Cautiva         General
                                                                                                                                                    Le Valie

                                                                                                                                                                                         La Boulaye
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Rosales



                                                                                                                                                                              Melo                   Villa Rossi
                                                                           Villa Valeria        Del Campillo

                                                                                                                               Mattaldi                           Serrano
                                                                                                                                                   Jovita


                                                                                                                                                                                                       BUENOS AIRES
                                                                                                                                                                     Hipolito
                                                                                                                                                                    Bouchard
                                                                                                                                                        Italó
                             ARGENTINA                                                                Villa
                                                                                                      Hudobro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0                         25             50               75                     100 Kilometers
                                                                                                            Huinca
                                                                                                           Renancó

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 34797




                                                                                                             LA PAMPA                                                                                                     shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
JUNE 2006




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
