OFFICIAL
DOCUMEINTS
The World Bank                                  1818 H Street N.W.       (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION           U.S.A.                   Cable Address: INDEVAS
June 5, 2013
Mr. Henry Rotich
Cabinet Secretary
The National Treasury
Treasury Building
Nairobi, Kenya
Dear Mr. Rotich,
Re: IDA Financing 4572-KE (Energy Sector Recovery Project - Amended and Restated)
First Revised Disbursement Letter
Additional Instructions: Disbursement
I refer to the Amended and Restated Financing Agreement (Agreement) between the
International Development Association (the "Association") and the Republic of Kenya (the
"Recipient") for the above-referenced project, dated May 08, 2009. The Agreement provides that
the Association may issue additional instructions regarding the withdrawal of the proceeds of
financing 4572-KE ("Financing"). This letter ("Disbursement Letter"), is the first revised version
and includes a provision for the use of electronic submission of applications which supersedes
the original version and constitutes the additional instructions.
The attached World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006,
("Disbursement Guidelines") (Attachment 1), are an integral part of the Disbursement Letter.
The manner in which the provisions in the Disbursement Guidelines apply to the Financing is
specified below. Sections and subsections in parentheses below refer to the relevant sections and
subsections in the Disbursement Guidelines and, unless otherwise defined in this letter, the
capitalized terms used have the meanings ascribed to them in the Disbursement Guidelines.
I. Disbursement Arrangements
(i) Disbursement Methods (section 2). The following Disbursement Methods may be used
under the Financing:
* Reimbursement
* Advance
* Direct Payment
* Special Commitment


﻿(ii) Disbursement Deadline Date (subsection 3.7). The Disbursement Deadline Date is 4
months after the Closing Date specified in the Financing Agreement. Any changes to this date
will be notified by the Association.
II. Withdrawal of Financing Proceeds
(i) Authorized Signatures (subsection 3.1).
A letter in the Form attached (Attachment 2) should be furnished to the Association at the address
indicated below providing the name(s) and specimen signature(s) of the official(s) authorized to sign
Applications:
The World Bank
Kenya Country Office
Upper Hill Road
Nairobi, Kenya
Attention: Diarietou Gaye
Country Director
(ii) Applications (subsections 3.2 - 3.3). Please provide completed and signed (a) applications
for withdrawal, together with supporting documents, and (b) applications for special
commitments, together with a copy of the commercial bank letter of credit, to the address
indicated below:
The World Bank,
Loan Department,
Kenya Re Towers, 10th Floor,
Upper Hill, off Ragati Road,
Nairobi, Kenya.
Attention: Mr. Anthony Okwako
(iii) Electronic Delivery (subsection 3.4) The Association may permit the Recipient to
electronically deliver to the Association Applications (with supporting documents) through the
Association's Client Connection, web-based portal. The option to deliver Applications to the
Association by electronic means may be effected if: (a) the Recipient has designated in writing,
pursuant to the terms of subparagraph (i) of this Section, its officials who are authorized to sign
and deliver Applications and to receive secure identification credentials ("SIDC") from the
Association for the purpose of delivering such Applications by electronic means; and (b) all such
officials designated by the Recipient have registered as users of Client Connection. If the
Association agrees, the Association will provide the Recipient with SIDC for the designated
officials. Following which, the designated officials may deliver Applications electronically by
completing Form 2380, which is accessible through Client Connection
(https://clientconnection.worldbank.org). The Recipient may continue to exercise the option of
preparing and delivering Applications in paper form. The Association reserves the right and
may, in its sole discretion, temporarily or permanently disallow the electronic delivery of
Applications by the Recipient.


﻿(iv) Terms and Conditions of Use of SIDC to Process Applications. By designating officials to
use SIDC and by choosing to deliver the Applications electronically, the Recipient confirms
through the authorized signatory letter its agreement to: (a) abide by the Terms and Conditions of
Use ofSecure Identification Credentials in connection with Use of Electronic Means to Process
Applications and Supporting Documentation ("Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure
Identification Credentials") provided in Attachment 3; and (b) to cause such official to abide by
those terms and conditions.
(v) Minimum Value ofApplications (subsection 3.5). The Minimum Value of Applications is
USD 200,000.
vi) Advances (sections 5 and 6).
* Types of Designated Accounts A(MoE), B(KenGen), and C (KPLC) (subsection 5.31:
Segregated
*  Currency of Designated Accounts (subsection 5.4): USD
*  Financial Institution at which the Designated Accounts Will Be Opened (subsection 5.S):
Commercial Bank acceptable to the Association.
*  Ceiling (subsection 6.1): Forecast for 2 quarters as provided in the quarterly Interim Financial
Reports.
III. Reporting on Use of Financing Proceeds
(i) Supporting Documentation (section 4). Supporting documentation should be provided with each
application for withdrawal as set out below:
For Designated Accounts A(MoE), B(KenGen), and C (KPLC)
* For requests for Reimbursement and for Replenishment of the Designated Account:
Interim Financial Report in the form attached (Attachment 3).
* For requests for Direct Payment: records evidencing eligible expenditures, e.g., copies
of receipts, supplier invoices
(ii) Frequency of Reporting Eligible Expenditures Paid from the Designated Account
(subsection 6.3). the period set out in the Financing Agreement for provision of Interim
Financial Reports.
IV. Other Important Information
For additional information on disbursement arrangements, please refer to the
Disbursement Handbook available on the Association's public website at
https://www.worldbank.org and its secure website "Client Connection" at
https://clientconnection.worldbank.org. Print copies are available upon request.


﻿If you have not already done so, the Association recommends that you register as a user
of the Client Connection website (https://clientconnection.worldbank.org). From this website
you will be able to prepare and deliver Applications, monitor the near real-time status of the
Financing, and retrieve related policy, financial, and procurement information. All Recipient
officials authorized to sign and deliver Applications by electronic means are required to register
with Client Connection before electronic delivery can be effected. For more information about
the website and registration arrangements, please contact the Association by email at
<clientconnection@worldbank.org>.
If you have any queries in relation to the above, please contact Wolfgang Chadab, Senior
Finance Officer at Wchadabg1worldbank.org using the above reference.
Yours sincerely,
Diarietou Gaye
Country Director for Kenya
Africa Region
Attachments
1. World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006
2. Form for Authorized Signatures
3. Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Credentials in connection with Use of
Electronic Means to Process Applications and Supporting Documentation, dated March 1,
2013
Wolfgang Chadab
Cleared with and cc: Nightingale Rukuba-Ngaiza
Mitsunori Motohashi
Cc with copies: Eng. Joseph Njoroge
Managing Director
Kenya Power and Lighting Company
Stima Plaza
P 0 Box 30099
Nairobi
Mr. Richard Nderitu
Operations Director
Kenya Electricity Generating Company
Stima Plaza
P 0 Box 47936
Nairobi


﻿WORLD BANK
DISBURSEMENT GUIDELINES
FOR PROJECTS
LOAN DEPARTMENT
May 1, 2006


﻿CONTENTS
PAGE
1. Purpose                                               1
2. Disbursement Methods                                  1
3. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds                           2
4. Supporting Documentation Requirements                 3
5. Designated Accounts                                   4
6. Terms and Conditions Applicable to Advances           6
7. Ineligible Expenditures                               7
8. Refunds                                               7


﻿World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines
For Projects
May 1, 2006
1. Purpose
1.1    The purpose of these Guidelines is to set out the Bank's procedures for
disbursement of loan proceeds for projects.' Specifically, the Guidelines explain (a) the
different methods used by the Bank to disburse loan proceeds, (b) the requirements for
withdrawal from the Loan Account, (c) the types of supporting documentation that the
borrower may be required to provide to demonstrate the use of loan proceeds for eligible
expenditures, (d) the criteria for establishing designated accounts, (e) the terms and
conditions applicable to advances, (f) the types of actions that the Bank may take if it
determines that loan proceeds are not needed or have been used for ineligible purposes,
and (g) the consequence of refunds.
2. Disbursement Methods
2.1    The Bank establishes disbursement arrangements for an operation in consultation
with the borrower and taking into consideration, inter alia, an assessment of the
borrower's financial management and procurement arrangements, the procurement plan
and cash flow needs of the operation, and its disbursement experience with the borrower.
2.2    The Bank disburses proceeds from the Loan Account established for each loan, to
or on the order of the borrower, using one or more of the disbursement methods set forth
below, as determined by the Bank.
(a)    Reimbursement: The Bank may reimburse the borrower for expenditures
eligible for financing pursuant to the Loan Agreement ("eligible
expenditures") that the borrower has prefinanced from its own resources.
(b)    Advance: The Bank may advance loan proceeds into a designated account
of the borrower to finance eligible expenditures as they are incurred and
"Bank" includes IBRD and IDA; "loan" includes credit and grant; "borrower" includes the borrower of
an IBRD loan, IDA credit, or Project Preparation Facility advance and the recipient of a grant; and "Loan
Agreement" includes the agreement with the Bank providing for a credit, grant, or advance. These
Disbursement Guidelines apply to all loans, credits, advances under the Project Preparation Facility, and
grants financed under the Institutional Development Fund and Global Environment Facility unless
otherwise provided in Operational Policy 10.20, Global Environment Facility Operations (forthcoming).
These Guidelines also apply to other recipient-executed grants financed from trust funds unless,
exceptionally, the terms of the agreement with the donor make provision for different requirements. They
do not apply to Development Policy loans.
Page 1 of 8


﻿for which supporting documents will be provided at a later date (see
section 5, "Designated Accounts").
(c)   Direct Payment: The Bank may make payments, at the borrower's
request, directly to a third party (e.g., supplier, contractor, consultant) for
eligible expenditures.
(d)   Special Commitment: The Bank may pay amounts to a third party for
eligible expenditures under special commitments entered into, in writing,
at the borrower's request and on terms and conditions agreed between the
Bank and the borrower.
3. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
3.1   Authorized Signatures. Before loan proceeds may be withdrawn or committed
from the Loan Account, the authorized representative of the borrower (as designated in
the Loan Agreement) must furnish to the Bank (a) the name(s) of the official(s)
authorized to sign applications for withdrawal and applications for a special commitment
(collectively, "Applications"), and (b) the authenticated specimen signature(s) of the
official(s). The borrower must indicate clearly if more than one signature is required on
Applications and must notify the Bank promptly of any changes in signature authority.
3.2   Applications. Applications must be provided to the Bank in such form and
include such information as the Bank may reasonably request. Application forms are
available   online   from   the    Client    Connection   Web     site   at
http://clientconnection.worldbank.org or from the Bank upon request.
3.3   For withdrawal from the Loan Account for advances, the borrower should provide
an original signed application for withdrawal. For withdrawal from the Loan Account for
reimbursements and direct payments and for reporting on the use of advances, the
borrower should provide an original signed application for withdrawal together with one
copy of supporting documents (see section 4, "Supporting Documentation
Requirements"). For a special commitment from the Loan Account, the borrower should
provide an original signed application for a special commitment together with one copy
of the letter of credit. The Bank reserves the right not to accept or review duplicate
copies of Applications and supporting documents and may at its discretion return or
destroy the duplicates.
3.4    Electronic Delivery. The Bank may authorize the borrower to use electronic
means, in a manner and on terms and conditions specified by the Bank, to deliver
Applications and supporting documentation to the Bank. Applications and supporting
documentation delivered in accordance with this subsection will be deemed to have been
provided to the Bank for the purposes of satisfying the requirements of subsections 3.2
and 3.3 of these Guidelines.
Page 2 of 8


﻿3.5   Minimum Value of Applications. The Bank establishes a minimum value for
Applications for reimbursement, direct payment, and special commitment. The Bank
reserves the right not to accept Applications that are below such minimum value.
3.6 Loan Disbursing Period. The Bank processes Applications only after the Loan
Agreement has been declared effective in accordance with the terms of the Loan
Agreement. The expenditures for which the Applications are made must be:
(a)   paid for (i) on or after the date of the Loan Agreement, or (ii) in the case
of operations that permit retroactive financing, on or after the earlier date
specified in the Loan Agreement for that purpose; and
(b)   incurred on or before the closing date specified or referred to in the Loan
Agreement ("Closing Date"), except as otherwise specifically agreed with
the Bank.
3.7   The loan disbursing period ends on the final date established by the Bank for
receipt by the Bank of applications for withdrawal and supporting documentation (the
"Disbursement Deadline Date"). The Disbursement Deadline Date may be the same as
the Closing Date, or up to four months after the Closing Date. Normally, to support
orderly project completion and closure of the Loan Account, the Bank does not accept
applications for withdrawal or supporting documentation received after the Disbursement
Deadline Date. The borrower should promptly inform the Bank of any expected
implementation delays or exceptional administrative issues before these dates. The Bank
notifies the borrower of any exception that the Bank may make to the Disbursement
Deadline Date.
3.8   Disbursement Conditions. If the Loan Agreement contains a disbursement
condition for a specific expenditure category, the Bank will disburse loan proceeds for
that category only after the disbursement condition has been fulfilled and the Bank has
notified the borrower to this effect.
4. Supporting Documentation Requirements
4.1   The borrower provides supporting documentation to the Bank to show that loan
proceeds have been or are being used to finance eligible expenditures.
4.2   For special commitments, the commercial bank provides its confirmation directly
to the Bank that conditions for release of payments committed for withdrawal have been
met.
4.3   Types of Supporting Documentation. The Bank requires either copies of the
original documents evidencing eligible expenditures ("Records") or summary reports of
expenditure ("Summary Reports") in such form and substance as the Bank may specify.
Records include such documents as invoices and receipts. A Summary Report may be
Page 3 of 8


﻿either (a) the interim un-audited financial report required under the Loan Agreement
("Interim Financial Report"') or (b) a statement of expenditure summarizing eligible
expenditures paid during a stated period ("Statement of Expenditure"). In all cases, the
borrower is responsible for retaining the original documents evidencing eligible
expenditures and making them available for audit or inspection.
4.4    The Bank determines the types of supporting documentation that the borrower
should provide, taking into consideration the disbursement method used. The supporting
documentation may be the following:
(a)   For applications for reimbursement: (i) Interim Financial Reports, (ii)
Statements of Expenditure, (iii) Records, or (iv) Records required by the
Bank for specific expenditures and Statements of Expenditure for all other
expenditures;
(b)   For reporting on the use of advances: (i) Interim Financial Reports, (ii)
Statements of Expenditure, (iii) Records, or (iv) Records required by the
Bank for specific expenditures and Statements of Expenditure for all other
expenditures;
(c)   For applications for direct payments: Records; and
(d)   Any other supporting documentation that the Bank may request by notice
to the borrower.
4.5    Failure to Provide Audited Financial Statements. If the borrower fails to provide
any of the audited Financial Statements required in accordance with, and within the
period of time specified in, the Loan Agreement, the Bank may at its discretion decide
not to accept applications for withdrawal supported by Summary Reports, even if such
reports are accompanied by Records.
5. Designated Accounts
5.1   The borrower may open one or more designated accounts into which the Bank
may, at the borrower's request, deposit amounts withdrawn from the Loan Account for
the purpose of paying for eligible expenditures as they are incurred ("Designated
Account"). Before the Bank authorizes establishment of a Designated Account, the
borrower must have adequate administrative capability, internal controls, and accounting
and auditing procedures to ensure effective use of the Designated Account.
5.2   The Bank may decide not to permit the use of Designated Accounts in new
projects if the borrower has failed to refund undocumented advances in the Designated
Account of any other loan to, or guaranteed by, the borrower within two months after the
Disbursement Deadline Date for such loan.
Page 4 of 8


﻿5.3   Type of Designated Account. A Designated Account may be established in one of
the two ways set out below, as appropriate for the operation concerned, as determined
and notified by the Bank.
(a)   Segregated Account: this is an account of the borrower into which only
proceeds of the loan may be deposited; or
(b)   Pooled Account: this is an account of the borrower into which the loan
proceeds and proceeds of other financing for the operation (e.g., borrower
resources and/or financing by other development partners) may be
deposited.
5.4    Currency of the Designated Account. Designated Accounts must be in a
currency acceptable to the Bank. In countries that have a freely convertible currency,
Designated Accounts may be held in the currency of the borrower or any freely
convertible currency. The Bank may also agree to local currency Designated Accounts
when, inter alia, the country's currency (even if not freely convertible) is stable and the
expenditures to be financed are primarily in local currency. The borrower bears all risks
associated with foreign exchange fluctuations between (a) the currency of denomination
of the Loan and that of the borrower's Designated Account, and (b) the currency of
denomination of the borrower's Designated Account and the currency or currencies of
project expenditures.
5.5   Financial Institution. Designated Accounts must be opened and maintained in a
financial institution acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank. To be acceptable to the Bank, the financial institution proposed by the borrower
should generally meet all the following requirements:
(a)   be financially sound;
(b)   be authorized to maintain the Designated Account in the currency agreed
between the Bank and the borrower;
(c)   be audited regularly, and receive satisfactory audit reports;
(d)   be able to execute a large number of transactions promptly;
(e)   be able to perform a wide range of banking services satisfactorily;
(f)   be able to provide a detailed statement of the Designated Account;
(g)   be part of a satisfactory correspondent banking network; and
(h)   charge reasonable fees for its services.
5.6   The Bank reserves the right not to accept a financial institution for the opening
and/or maintenance of a Designated Account if such institution has asserted or asserts a
claim to set off, seize, or attach the proceeds of any Bank loan on deposit in a Designated
Account maintained by it.
Page 5 of 8


﻿6. Terms and Conditions Applicable to Advances
6.1   Ceiling. The Bank notifies the borrower of the maximum amount of loan
proceeds that may be on deposit in a Designated Account (the "Ceiling"). The Bank, at
its discretion, may establish the Ceiling as either (a) a fixed amount, or (b) an amount that
is adjusted from time to time during project implementation based on periodic forecasts
of project cash flow needs.
6.2   Applications for Advances. The borrower may apply for an advance in an
amount up to the Ceiling less the aggregate amount of those advances previously
received by the borrower for which the borrower has not yet provided supporting
documentation. Normally, to support orderly closure of the Loan Account, the Bank does
not advance loan proceeds into the Designated Account after the Closing Date.
6.3   Frequency of Reporting Eligible Expenditures Paid from the Designated
Account. The borrower reports on the use of loan proceeds advanced to the Designated
Account at intervals specified by the Bank by notice to the borrower ("Reporting
Period"). The borrower should ensure that all amounts deposited in the Designated
Account are accounted for and their use reported prior to the Disbursement Deadline
Date. After this date, the borrower must refund to the Bank any advances still
unaccounted for or remaining in the Designated Account.
6.4   Withholding Advances. The Bank is not required to make any deposit into the
Designated Account if:
(a)   The Bank determines that payment of the deposit would result in
exceeding the Ceiling (see subsection 6.2, "Applications for Advances");
(b)   The Bank is not satisfied that the borrower's planned project expenditures
justify the deposit. The Bank may, by notice to the borrower, adjust the
amount it deposits or withhold further deposits into the Designated
Account until it is satisfied that the financial needs of the project warrant
further deposits;
(c)   The borrower fails to take the action required pursuant to the
determinations made by the Bank under subsections 7.1 and 7.2 of these
Guidelines;
(d)   The borrower fails to provide any of the audited Financial Statements
required in accordance with, and within the period of time specified in, the
Loan Agreement;
(e)   The Bank determines that all further withdrawals of loan proceeds should
be made by the borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(f)   The Bank has notified the borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or
in part the borrower's right to make withdrawals from the Loan Account.
6.5   Excess Advances. If at any time the Bank determines that any amount deposited
in the Designated Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
Page 6 of 8


﻿expenditures ("Excess Amount"), it may, at its discretion, require the borrower to take
one of the two actions listed below. Upon notification by the Bank, the borrower must
promptly take the action requested:
(a)   Provide evidence satisfactory to the Bank within a period specified by the
Bank that the Excess Amount will be used to pay for eligible expenditures.
If the evidence is not furnished within the time period specified, the
borrower must promptly refund the Excess Amount to the Bank; or
(b)   Refund the Excess Amount promptly.
7. Ineligible Expenditures
7.1   Ineligible Expenditures Generally. If the Bank determines that any amount of the
loan was used to pay for an expenditure that is not eligible pursuant to the Loan
Agreement ("ineligible expenditure"), the Bank may, at its discretion, require the
borrower to take one of the two actions listed below. Upon notification by the Bank, the
borrower must promptly take the action requested:
(a)   Refund an equivalent amount to the Bank; or
(b)   Exceptionally, provide substitute documentation evidencing other eligible
expenditures.
7.2   Ineligible Expenditures Paid from the Designated Account. If the Bank
determines that any payment out of the Designated Account was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Bank or was made for an ineligible expenditure, the Bank may,
at its discretion, require the borrower to take one of the actions listed below. Upon
notification by the Bank, the borrower must promptly take the action requested:
(a)   Provide the additional evidence requested by the Bank;
(b)   Deposit an equivalent amount into the Designated Account;
(c)   Refund an equivalent amount to the Bank; or
(d)   Exceptionally, provide substitute documentation evidencing other eligible
expenditures.
8. Refunds
8.1 Borrower Decision to Refund. The borrower may, upon notice to the Bank,
refund all or any amount of the loan on deposit in the Designated Account to the Bank for
credit to the Loan Account.
8.2   Consequence of Refunds. The Bank shall determine whether refunds made to the
Bank in accordance with sections 6 and 7 and subsection 8.1 of these Disbursement
Guidelines will be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation. Borrowers should be aware that refunds of loan proceeds may result in swap
Page 7 of 8


﻿termination fees and/or unwinding costs for amounts for which the interest rate basis or
currency has been converted or hedged.
8.3   Other Obligations Unaffected by Refunds. Refunds of amounts of the loan do
not affect any remedies of the Bank under the Loan Agreement.
Page 8 of 8


﻿Attachment [2]
Form of Authorized Signatory Letter
[Letterhead]
Ministry of Finance
[Street address]
[DATE]
The World Bank
Resident Mission
Nairobi, Kenya
Attention: Diarietou Gaye
Re: IDA Financing 4572-KE (Energy Sector Recovery Project
I refer to the Financing Agreement ("Agreement") between the International
Development Association (the "Association") and the Republic of Kenya (the "Recipient"),
dated   -     , providing the above Financing. For the purposes of Section 2.03 of the General
Conditions as defined in the Agreement, any 1[one] of the persons whose authenticated
specimen signatures appear below is authorized on behalf of the Recipient to sign applications
for withdrawal [and applications for a special commitment] under this Financing.
For the purpose of delivering Applications to the Association, 2[each] of the persons
whose authenticated specimen signatures appears below is authorized on behalf of the
Recipient, acting 3[individually] 4[ointly], to deliver Applications, and evidence in support
thereof on the terms and conditions specified by the Association.
5This confirms that the Recipient is authorizing such persons to accept Tokens and to
deliver the Applications and supporting documents to the Association by electronic means. In
full recognition that the Association shall rely upon such representations and warranties,
including without limitation, the representations and warranties contained in the Terms and
1 Instruction to the Recipient: Stipulate if more than one person needs to sign Applications, and how many or which
positions, and if any thresholds apply. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Association.
2 Instruction to the Recipient: Stipulate: if more than one person needs to jointly sign Applications, if so, please
indicate the actual number. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Association.
3 Instruction to the Recipient: Use this bracket if any one of the authorized persons may sign; if this is not
applicable, please delete. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Association.
4 Instruction to the Recipient: Use this bracket only if several individuals must jointly sign each Application; if this
is not applicable, please delete. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Association.
5 Instruction to the Recipient: Add this paragraph if the Recipient wishes to authorize the listed persons to accept
Tokens and to deliver Applications by electronic means; if this is not applicable, please delete the paragraph. Please
delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Association.


﻿Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Devices in connection with Use of Electronic Means to Process
Applications and Supporting Documentation ("Terms and Conditions of Use of Tokens"), the
Recipient represents and warrants to the Association that it will deliver to each such person a
copy of the Terms and Conditions of Use of Tokens and will cause such persons to abide by
those terms and conditions.]
This Authorization replaces and supersedes any Authorization currently in the
Association records with respect to this Agreement.
[Name], [position]      Specimen Signature:
[Name], [position]      Specimen Signature:
[Name], [position]      Specimen Signature:
Yours truly,
/ signed /
[Position]


﻿Attachment 3
Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Credentials
in connection with Use of Electronic Means
to Process Applications
and Supporting Documentation
March 1, 2013
The World Bank (Bank)1 will provide secure identification credentials (SIDC) to permit the
Borrower2 to deliver applications for withdrawal and applications for special commitments under
the Agreement(s) and supporting documentation (such applications and supporting
documentation together referred to in these Terms and Conditions of Use as Applications) to the
Bank electronically, on the terms and conditions of use specified herein.
SIDC can be either: (a) hardware-based (Physical Token), or (b) software-based (Soft Token).
The Bank reserves the right to determine which type of SIDC is most appropriate.
A.    Identification of Users.
1. The Borrower will be required to identify in a completed Authorized Signatory Letter (ASL)
duly delivered to and received by the Bank each person who will be authorized to deliver
Applications. The Bank will provide SIDC to each person identified in the ASL
(Signatory), as provided below. The Borrower shall also immediately notify the Bank if
a Signatory is no longer authorized by the Borrower to act as a Signatory.
2. Each Signatory must register as a user on the Bank's Client Connection (CC) website
(https://clientconnection.worldbank.org) prior to receipt of his/her SIDC. Registration on
CC will require that the Signatory establish a CC password (CC Password). The
Signatory shall not reveal his/her CC Password to anyone or store or record the CC
Password in written or other form. Upon registration as a CC user, the Signatory will be
assigned a unique identifying account name.
B.    Initialization of SIDC.
1.    Prior to initialization of SIDC by a Signatory, the Signatory will acknowledge having
read, understood and agreed to be bound by these Terms and Conditions of Use.
"Bank" includes IBRD and IDA.
2 "Borrower" includes the borrower of an IBRD loan, IDA credit, or Project Preparation Facility advance and the
recipient of a grant.


﻿2.    Where a Physical Token is to be used, promptly upon receipt of the Physical Token, the
Signatory will access CC using his/her account name and CC Password and register
his/her Physical Token and set a personal identification number (PIN) to be used in
connection with the use of his/her Physical Token, after which the Physical Token will be
initialized for use by the Signatory exclusively for purposes of delivering Applications.
Where a Soft Token is to be used, the Signatory will access CC using his/her account
name and CC Password and set a personal identification number (PIN) to be used in
connection with the use of his/her Soft Token, after which the Soft Token will be
initialized for use by the Signatory exclusively for purposes of delivering Applications.
Upon initialization of the SIDC, the Signatory will be a "SIDC User". The Bank will
maintain in its database a user account (Account) for each SIDC User for purposes of
managing the SIDC of the SIDC User. Neither the Borrower nor the SIDC User will
have any access to the Account.
3.    Prior to first use of the SIDC by the SIDC User, the Borrower shall ensure that the SIDC
User has received training materials provided by the Bank in use of the SIDC.
C.    Use of SIDC.
1. Use of the SIDC is strictly limited to use in the delivery of Applications by the SIDC
User in the manner prescribed by the Bank in the Agreement(s) and these Terms and
Conditions. Any other use of the SIDC is prohibited.
2.    The Bank assumes no responsibility or liability whatsoever for any misuse of the SIDC
by the SIDC User, other representatives of the Borrower, or third parties.
3.    The Borrower undertakes to ensure, and represents and warrants to the Bank (such
representation and warranty being expressly relied upon by the Bank in granting SIDC)
that each SIDC User understands and will abide by, these Terms and Conditions of Use,
including without limitation the following:
4.    Security
4.1. The SIDC User shall not reveal his/her PIN to anyone or store or record the PIN in
written or other form.
4.2. The SIDC User shall not allow anyone else to utilize his/her SIDC to deliver an
Application to the Bank.
4.3. The SIDC User shall always logout from CC when not using the system. Failure to
logout properly can create a route into the system that is unprotected.
4.4. If the SIDC User believes a third party has learned his/her PIN or has lost his/her
Physical Token he/she shall immediately notify clientconnection(@worldbank.org.


﻿4.5. The Borrower shall immediately notify the Bank at
clientconnection@worldbank.org of any lost, stolen or compromised SIDC, and take
other reasonable steps to ensure such SIDC are disabled immediately.
5.   Reservation of Right to Disable SIDC
5.1. The Borrower shall reserve the right to revoke the authorization of a SIDC User to
use a SIDC for any reason.
5.2. The Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to temporarily or permanently
disable a SIDC, de-activate a SIDC User's Account or both.
6.   Care of Physical Tokens
6.1. Physical Tokens will remain the property of the Bank.
6.2. The Bank will physically deliver a Physical Token to each Signatory designated to
receive one in a manner to be determined by and satisfactory to the Bank.
6.3. Physical Tokens contain delicate and sophisticated instrumentation and therefore
should be handled with due care, and should not be immersed in liquids, exposed to
extreme temperatures, crushed or bent. Also, Physical Tokens should be kept more than
five (5) cm from devices that generate electromagnetic radiation (EMR), such as mobile
phones, phone-enabled PDAs, smart phones and other similar devices. Physical Tokens
should be carried and stored separate from any EMR device. At close range (less than 5
cm), these devices can output high levels of EMR that can interfere with the proper
operation of electronic equipment, including the Physical Token.
6.4. Without derogating from these Terms and Conditions of Use, other technical
instructions on the proper use and care of Physical Tokens are available at
http://www.rsa.com.
7.    Replacement
7.1. Lost, damaged, compromised (in terms of 4.5, above) or destroyed Physical
Tokens will be replaced at the expense of the Borrower.
7.2. The Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, not to replace any Physical
Token in the case of misuse, or not to reactivate a SIDC User's Account.


