Eocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No.8833
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
SECOND TECHNICAL COOPERATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1168-CM)
JUNE 25, 1990
Country Operations Division
Country Department I
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wlithoat World Bank athorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
DCA:           Development Credit Agreement
DEPt            Departement des Etudes et de la Planification
IPD:            Institut Panafricain de Dsveloppement
MINAGRI:        Ministere de l'Agriculture
MINAS:         Ministare 4es Affaires Sociales
MINDICt          .aistere du D4veloppement
de l'Ir.dustrie et du Comerce
MINFI:         Ministere des Finances
MINKEN:        Ministare de l'Energie et des Mines
MINPAT:        Ministere de la Planification et de
l'Amenagement du Territoire
MINSANTE:       Ministare de la Sante
MINSCOF:       Ministere de la Condition Ffbinine
MINUH:          Minister6 de l'Urbanisme et de l'Habitat
PERP:          Public Enterprises Reform Project
SNI:           Soci$te Nationale d'Investissement



THE V'r)RLD BANK              FOR OMCIAL US ONLY
Washrtn,  . D.C 20433
- 5.A.
Ofic o Owect.Gwa
Operatum wiuatwun
June 25, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Cameroon - Second
Technical Cooperation Proiect (Credit 1168-CM)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Cameroon - Second Technical Cooperation Project
(Credit 1168-CM)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This documet has & restficted distbution and may be used by ripbets nly in the perfomcac
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discbsod without Wald Banlk auwtion.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CAMEROON
SECOND TECHNICAL COOPERATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1168-CM)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface            ...............................  .i
Evaluation Summary ............................... . ... .    ii
I.   PPOJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   ....    1
Project Identity....... * .. ............................    1
Project Background                  ...   1
Project Objectives and Description ....................   2
Project Design and Organization            ..               2
Project Implementation               ...           .    3
Major Results of Project ..............................      5
Training, Project Preparation and Institution Building      7
Bank Performance ..........     ............................    8
Borrower Performance ........      ..........................   9
Conclusion .............    ...............................  11
II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .......  12
III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION .................. ........   13
Related Bank Loans          . ..*    ..............  13
Project Timetable ...  ................................   13
Project Costs and Finacing . . ..................    ........  14
Credit Disbursements .     . ..........................    14
Status of Credit Covenenants ..........................  15
Use of Bank Resources .     . .................... ......  16
TABLE: Studies Financed under the Credit.............. 17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CAMEROON
SECOND TECHNICAL COOPERATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1168-CM)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.   This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Technical
Cooperation Project in Cameroon for which Cr. 1168-CM in the amount o%f SDR
8.2 million was approved in June 1981. The Credit Closing Date, originally
December 31, 1985, was postponed three times, to December 31, 1988 at
Government's request. In keeping with the Bank's general practice, the
Credit account was kept open a further six months to honor withdrawal
applications arising from commitments made before the revised Closing Date.
The Credit account was closed June 30, 1989 and the undisbursed balance of
SDR 17,350 was cancelled.
2.   This PCR was prepared by staff of the Country Operations Division of
the Africa Occidental and Central Department (AFlCO). Part II, the
Borrower's evaluation, is a translation, by AFlCO staff, of evaluative
comments made ir. a completion report prepared in the Secretariat General of
the Ministry of Plan and Territorial Development and forwarded to the Bark
in March, 1989. The brevity of the Cameroonian authorities' r-eport
reflects the difficulty the Secretariat General had in evaluting a project
which had never been actively monitored by any central unit, for which at
least nine different individuals had been theoretically responsible at one
time or another over seven years and during which there were periods when
no-one was officially designated as responsible for project management.
3.   Preparation of this report was started in the course of a supervision
carried out in November/December 1988 and was further discussed with the
Authorities during a project completion mission. It is based, inter alia,
on the Report and Recommendation of the President to the Executive
Directors, the Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower and internal Bank
memoranda.



- ii -
CAMEROON
SECOND TECHNICAL COOPERATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1168-CM)
PROJECT COMPLETION tEPORT
£VALUATION SU=1&RY
Proiect Obiectives
1.   The main aim of the Second Technical Cooperation Project was to
increase the Government's capacity to elaborate and execute its Fifth
Development Plan (1981-86). Its specific objectives were to help promotes
(a) sound allocation of investment resources;
(b) effective utilization of investment resources in key sectors;
(c) mobilization of external financing for development; and
(d) appropriate training for selected Cameroonian staff;
The Project as appraised included components in Development Planning,
External Debt Management, Agriculture, Industry, Social Development and
Energy. At the Government's request, the Energy component was subsequently
dropped and assistance was provided to the Ministry of Town Planning and
Housing (MINUM) in line with the Fifth Development Plan objective of
improving the nation's infrastructure (paras 24 and 34). About one fifth of
the Credit was earmarked for actions to be identified during project
implementation.
Implementation Experience
2.   There was a five month delay between Board Approval and Credit
Signature.  Effetriveness conditions were not met for one year.  Sta.t-up
also suffered long delays. Disbursements lagged seriously and project
completion slipped by three years (paras 10 and 11). Different perceptions
between the Government and the Bank of the type of assistance needed and
the role of expatriate technical assistance became clear during
implementation (para. 9). The Fifth Development Plan did not represent a
common agenda to which all the concerned government agencies were committed
and this resulted in low commitment to the Project in some Cameroonian
circles. The Project was never actively coordinated in the field and the
Government resisted Bank proposals to strengthen project management and
monitoring mechanisms (para. 10). This resulted in a failure ever to
establish the expected implementation systemst internal procedures for
securing the Bank's non-objection to proposed actions or for commitment and
withdrawal of funds evolved by default (para. 30).
3.   Because of slow d'sbursement, the project implementation period in
effect slipped by three years. As a result, the Project was implemented in
a political, administrative and economic environment which had changed



- iii -
since appriisal. By 1985, developments in Cameroon (para. 12) were causing
the Fifth Development Plan to unravel. Against this backdrop, and given
the Government's administrative and management weaknesses, it is noteworthy
that TC II achieved as much as it did.
4.   Bank supervision was hampered by lack of continuity in lead
responsibility for the Project in the Bank Programs division and paucity of
resources in the Projects divisions with responsibility for supervising
technical components. The 1987 Bank reorganization compounded these
difficulties.
Proiect Achievements
5.   At the request of the Authorities, about 10 percent of the Credit was
used to finance high priority diagnostic studies of selected public
enterprises with a view to recommending their liquidation, restructuring or
privatization under the UNDP-financed Public Enterprise Rehabilitation
Project, launched in 1986 as part of Cameroon's economic recovery program.
These studies were a significant variation between planned and actual
Project content and constituted a crucial input to Cameroon's Bank-
supported Structural Adjustment Program. The Project's equipment supply
and overseas training activities have also made a real contribution to
Cameroon's development.
6.   Other studies financed under the Credit covered the role of
Cameroonian women in development, the possibilities for future development
of communal and municipal finances and financial and managerial reviews of
some 35 rural cooperatives as a prerequisite to formulation of a national
agricultural services strategy. Project advisers, working with national
counterpart staff, produced a number of sectoral analyses, plans and
proposals, some of which have been used as a data base for policy
formulation (para. 20)
7.   The Project's stated objective was to help increase institutional
capacity in Cameroon. In practice, the difficulty of effecting
institutional change combined with pressure to meet short-term needs to
create a situation in which the Government increasingly used the Credit for
substitution technical assistance activities to help implement the Fifth
Development Plan rather than for long-term capacity building.
Nevertheless, the staff skills and institutional capacities of MINAGRI,
NINAS, MINPAT, MINFI and MINDIC were considerably strengtnened as a result
of project activities.
Findings and Lessons
8.   Despite long implementation delays, TC II was a success in that it
did effectively contribute to elaboration and implementation of the Fifth
Development Plan, it did provide training for key staff in MINFI, MINPAT,
MINAGRI and MINDIC and it did finance much needed computer and other
equipment for these agencies. Furthermore, it made a material contribution



- iv -
to the identification and preparation of projects in the transport,
agriculture and economic management sectors. The main weakness of the
Project was that it was not adequately managed, either by the Government or
the Bank (para. 30). Undertakings concerning project monitoring and
reporting were not kept (nor did IDA exert any vigorous pressure to ensure
that they were kept). Moreover, the Government has not yet utilized some
outputs of the Project although these remain available should it decide to
do so. Nevertheless, these failures do not vitiate the developmental
impact of the Project but the fact that such poor records were kept and
that activities of resident advisors were so poorly tracked makes it very
difficult to give an accurate evaluation of that impact.
9.   The lessons of the First Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 673-CM)
were not "internalized", either by the Governmf. . or the Bank in time to
avoid the pitfalls of TC II -- the conclusions '-icerning the weaknesses of
each operation are strikingly similar -- but the start up f the Economic
Management Project (para. 38), approved in June 1989, suggests that now
these lessons have indeed been learned. All Project components were
identified by the beneficiary agencies and designed in close collaboration
with the directors and other staff who will implement them.  The project
manageLent secretariat was fully staffed and operational and the Loan was
effective less than six months from Board presentation. All project start-
up activities are on schedule or ahead of it and the pace and quality of
the communication between Washington and Yaounde suggest that the Project
will mark a new phase in Bank-provided technical assistance to Cameroon.



1
SECOND TECHNICAL COOPERATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1168-CM)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART Is PROJECT RE1IW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Proiect Identity
Name:                Second Technical Cooperation Project (TC II)
Amount:              SDR 8.2 million (US$ 10 million equivalent)
Credit Number:       1168-CM
RVP  Units           (Former West) Africa Region
Country:             Cameroon
Sector:              Technical Assistance
Project Background
1.   Bank Involvement and Stratezv in Cameroon.   Bank and IDA codmitments
in Cameroon at the time of project appraisal totalled about US$ 600 million
equivalent, transport and agriculture accounting for 45 and 40 percent
respectively.   The Bank Group's country strategy emphasized three themes:
i) support for Government efforts to increase agricultural prGduction both
for export and domestic consumption to alleviate rural poverty;
ii) upgrading operation and maintenance of the country's infrastructure,
given its importance for the economic growth of Cameroon and its neighbors:
and iii) improving management of the economy through more efficient
resource allocation and stimulating investment by local entrepreneurs.
2.   The First Technical Assistance Proiect. The First Technical
Assistance Project (TA I), Cr. 673-CM, was approved by the Executive
Directors in December 1976 and became effective in September 1977.
Previous Bank projects in Cameroon had included technical assistance within
sectoral components of investment projects. By contrast, TA I was designed
as free-standing technical assistance to increase the Government's overall
capacity to implement the Fourth Development Plan (1976-81). This was a
response to declining levels of technical assistance flows and a lack of
appropriately qualified government staff to manage the anticipated growth
in public developmental investment and formulate viable projects for
external financing. It was centrally located in the ministry responsible
for Plan (MINPAT)  l/.   The OED audit of TA I statess '...it is difficult
to assess precisely the lasting impact of project activities...*. The
technology transfer anticipated at the time of appraisal did not
materialize but some twenty investments in agriculture, the urban sector,
transport and water supply were prepared under the project.
3.   The Second Technical Cooperation Proiect (TC II). Credit 1168-CM was
approved by the Executive Directors in June 1083 and became effect:'ve in
1/ The attributes and names of some ministries changed three or more times
during the life of the Project. For consistency and to avoid confusion,
this report uses either the formula 'ministry responsible for (Plan,
Commerce, etc.)" or the current name and abbreviation of the ministry in
question, even if not yet-in use at a given stage of the project.



2
June 1982. It was the last Credit made to Cameroon before graduation from
IDA el'gibility. At project appraisal, Cameroon was still enjoying an oil
boom. Per capita income had been increasing for five years and foodcrop
production, trade, transport and industry were showing sustained, r 4id
growth.  The country's potential was seen to lie in developing a
diversified agricultural 3ector and _mproving basic infrastructure.
Project Objectives and Description
4.   The main aim of the Project was to m.ncrease the Government's capacity
to elaborate and execute its Fifth Development Plan (1981-86) throught
(a) sound investment resource allocation from better operation of
the planning system and appropriate sector policies and programs
in agriculture, industry, energy and social development;
(b) effective investment resources utilization in these sectors by
financing project preparation activities and reinforcing
Government's capacity to manage the development project cycle;
(c)  an increase in external financing for development investments
through measures to improve external debt management; and
(d) increased access to appropriate training for selected
Cameroonian staff to enhance their skills and experience.
5.    Project Components.      The project Rs appraised included components
in Development Planning, External Debt Hanagwment, Agriculture, Industry,
Social Development and Energy. At the Govern "t's request, the Energy
component was subsequently dropped and the ser. ces of training and land
use advisors for the Ministry of Town Planning and Housing (MINUH) were
financed under the Project in line with the objective of improving the
nation's infrastructure (para. 24). In addition, about one fifth of the
Credit was earmarked for activities to be identified during implementation.
The Project was so long-lived, and the period one of such change, that
actual project activities differed significantly from the components
outlined at appraisal but the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was
sufficiently broad to allow this without necessitating formal amendments.
Proiect Design and Organization
6.   Conceptually, the project was a continuation of TA I.  Its rationale
was well-founded and in line both with the Government's Fifth Development
Plan and -ith Bank Group country strategy.   There was no need to revisit
the technical assumptions made in preparation of TA I -- the sectors
targeted were key; project scope and scale were appropriate; the need for
the technical expertise, consulting services and staff training included in
the project was real and expected to increase.
7.   However, there were major weaknesses in project design.  The Bank
failed to take sufficient account of the Government's capacity to implement
not simply the Second Technical Cooperation Project, but the Fifth
Development Plan itself, which the Project was designed to support. It is



3
arguable that the Plan was not feasible, largely because it did not
represent r consensus to which a'l the key government actors were
committed. Secondly, the Credit amount earmarked for consultancies (over
USS 3 million or 30 percent 2/) was disproportionate. It is not clear that
the Government felt a real need for the number of consultancies that such
an ailocation implies or that their objectives had been identified. Even
if they had, the administration was not equipped to establish terms of
reference, monitor performance and implement recommendations on such a
scale.
8. Section 3.02 of the DCA stipulated that the Secretary General of the
ministry responsible for planning would designate a Project Coordinator
responsible for project management and liaison with IDA. The department
director concerned would be responsible for implementation and progress
reporting of the Project's components. These same arrangements had failed
under TA I: the PCR for that operation 31 states: "The Credit Agreement
provision[s were] ... complied with in form but very little was done in
substance and all the supervision reports refer to "poor" or "weak"
coordination of the project." The approach to project coordination was not
pragmatic enough: the project documents defined the roles and
responsibilities of the agencies involved but did not evaluate their
ability to fulfill them. TA I had already shown that the poor internal
coordination of the administratjon necessitated concrete measures with
specified, monitorable indicators to assure effective coordination.
9.   Support for the basic assumptions of the project -- in particular the
provision if expatriate advisors in technical ministries -- was not
questioned in the project documents despite indications of the Government's
reservations about such assistance. The Decision Memorandum records that
...the project should be called Technical Cooperation and not Technical
Assistance since the Cameroonian Authorities perceive the latter term as
implying foreign superiority and undue influence...[and] this remains a
topic of concern in Yaound4". The long delays between Board Approval and
fulfillment of effectiveness conditions and in recruiting advisors suggest
that the will to implement TC It was questionable and that the seemingly
superficial project title issue in fact indicated a deeper cuncern.
Project Implementation
General
10. Project start-up suffered long delays and disbursements lagged
seriously -- in June 1983, two years after Board approval, total
disbursements amounted to less than 1 percent of the Credit. This was
principally due to: i) slow Government preparation of TA contracts; ii)
2I This report does not reconcile precise amounts disbursed in various
currencies with SDR category allocations in the DCA but actual
disbursements were generally in line with those allocations as amended.
31 The TA I PZR, published five years after TC 1I appraisal, was not
available to the appraisal team but TA I's implementation history was
known.



4
failute to follow through on project administration; and iii) the lack of a
common agenda among the concerned government agencies and hence, common
commitment to the Project. There was further evidence of this in June
1982, when IDA proposed setting up a financially autonomous Technical
Coopecztton Unit with responsibility for technical assistance
administration. The Government resisted this proposal and a subsequent one
to increase administrative support to the project Coordinator. This
situation persisted throughout project implementation -- by the time of
the original Closing Date, less than 20 percent of the Credit had been
disbursed.
11. The project implementation period was not only much longer than
anticipated at appraisal, in effect, it slipped by three years since 80
percent of the Credit was disbursed in the period the project was extended.
As a result, the Project  :as implemented in a political, administrative and
economic environment which had changed since appraisal.
12. This report does not attempt to asses the political and economic
changes that took place in Cameroon during the 1980s, but they were
unquestionably profound. The most visible was the replacement of former
President Ahidjo by President Biya. This was effected over a long period
of maneuvering whose ramifications were felt at all levels and led to
numerous cabinet reshufflss and reorganizations. Over the project
impi-mentation period, the mandate, activities and designation of the
ministry with line responsibility for the project changed three times (see
footnote 1), most notably in 1983, when responsibility fcr negotiating
external financing shift-d to MINFI.
13. These changes brought frequent rotation of senior staff -- there were
five ministers of Plan during the project's life -- and compounded the
structural weakness of the administration by absorbing the attention and
energies of key staff and decision makers. Economic change was due
principally to the sharp drop in oil sector revenues and the serious
deterioration in world prices for Cameroon's traditional non-oil exports.
Against this backdrop, and given the administrative and managerial weakness
of the Government, it is noteworthy that TC II achieved as much as it did.
14. Advisors. Long term advisors were located in the ministries
responsible for Plan, Agriculture (MINAGRI), Education (MIdEDUC), Health
(MINSANTE), Town Planning and Housing (MINUH), Social Affairs (MINAS),
Industry and Commerce (MINDIC) and the Soci4tA Nationale d'Investissement
(SNI). The overall results were mixed. The concerned directors in MINDIC,
MINAGRI and the Minister of Social Affairs have given positive evaluations
of the work of their advisors. Other advisors' contributions are open to
question and in one case, the cost of the alvisor's services was out of all
proportion to what she achieved (para. 34). Transfer of technology and
know-how was less than expected at appraisal. The principal reasons for
this were thatt i) in pr.actice, the advisors' did not play the advisory
role described at appraisal but were used to "trouble-shoot' and make good
the lack of trained government staff to handle priority tasks; ii) low
commitment to the Project; iii) failures to appoint suitable counterpart
national staff to work with the advisors; iv) lack of career incentives for
suitable counterparts who were appointed; v) poor communication among
government agencies; and vi) inadequate support and facilities for the



5
advisors. In these conditions, some advisors grew indifferent and were
less productive than they could have been.
15. The Credit financed a total of 30 years of advisors, services in
seven different government agencies. Of the advisor posts envisaged at
appraisal, all were recruited except for an energy expert (para. 5). In
addition, a legal advisor was recruited at Government's request in August
1983 to advise MINPAT's Legal Services Division and the services of a land
survey specialist in MINUH's Cadastre Department, originally financed under
Ln 2244-CM, were financed for one year under TC II. An urban tra'ning
,pecialist was also recruited for MINUH (Habitat Department) in 1984.  Two
advisors, the financial analyst in MINAGRI and the national accounts
advisor in MINPAT, were less than three months in post.
16.  Studies and Training.    The DCA was amended in late 1984 to allow
funds allocated to consultancies (para. 7) to be used for training also,
since by that time, two years after effectiveness, less than USS 80,000
equivalent had been used for consultancies. A list of studies (Table 1)
financed under the Credit is attached. The President's Report stated that
local consultants, working either independently or in association with
foreign firms, would be recruited for the Project but only about one
percent of Credit proceeds were spent in this way, for project audits and
PERP studies (para. 19). This is in part because no data base on available
national expertise existed and in part because national consultants had no
experience of how to proceed in obtaining consultancies under Bank-financed
projects. With help form the Economic Management Project, (para. 38) the
Government is now taking steps to establish a roster of national
consultants and entrepreneurs and to familiarize them with bidding
procedures. Training activities are discussed in paras 21 ff.
17.  Equipment.      The DCA provided that approximately US$ 600,000
equivalent would be i3ade available for procurement of equipment and the
final amount disbursed under this category was of that order. The
principal expenditures were for the acquisition of computer hardware and
software in MINDIC and MINFI and for vehicles, photocopiers and other
office machines in MINPAT. In addition, a micro-computer was acquired fcr
the Ministry of Women's Affairs (MINSCOF).
Maior Results of Proiect
18. General. The Project's stated objective was to assist the Government
increase the implementation capacity of its institutions. In practical
terms, however, the difficulty of effecting institutional change,
particularly in Cameroon, combined wita the pressure to meet short-term
needs created a situation in which the Government was drawn to use bulk of
the Credit for substitution tecbnical assistance activities to help
implement the fifth Development Plan rather than for long-term capacity
building.  Nevertheless, the staff skills and institutional capacities of
MINAGRI, MINAS, MINPAT, MINFI and M ITNDIC were considerably strengthened.
19. Studies. Studies identifieu at appraisal (for instance, the energy
studies) were not carried out while those identified in the course of
project implementation were. This is often the case when studies are
selected from a 'wish list* contained in a classic Five-Year Development



6
Plan. Of the studies that were carried out some have been effectively
exploited. For instance the studies of co'amunal finances and municipal
development (Table 1) have provided key input to the formulation of future
sector strategy and the formulation of the Urban II and Food Security
projects supported by the Bank. Others, particularlv those done by
resident advisors have either not been exploited by the authorities, for
instance the sector analyses and project proposal prepr -A-by the advisor
in MINSANTE, or have been overtaken by changing circum ances, for instance
the Investment Code (para. 20) prepared under the guidance of the MINDIC
policy advisor, which Is now being revised in the context of the Structural
Adjustment Program. A t-e request of the Authorities, US$ 1.1 million
equivalent was made :. L&le to the Government as counterpart funding of
the UNDP-financed Pu  ;.cerprise Rehabilitation Project (PERP), launched
in 1986 as part of Ci.Le cin's national economic recovery program. Credit
funds financed high pr4')rity diagnostic studies of selected public
enterprises with a view to recommending their liquidation, restructuring or
privatization. These studies constitute one of the key inputs to the
design of Cameroon Structural Adjustment Program, now being supported by
Bank Ln. 3089, and are a major project achievement.
20. In addition to the studies listed in Table 1, project advisors,
working with Cameroonian counterpart staff, produced a number of sectoral
analyses, plans and proposals, the most significant being:
MINDIC
3    A draft law to institute an Investment Code to encourage and
stimulate economic activity. This law, published in the
Official Gazette in July, 1984 is now being revised;
-    A  working draft for an Investor's Guide (1987);
-    An analysis of the performance of the industry sector under the
Fifth Plan and of its future constraints and potential(1987);
MINAGRI
-    An Operational Manual to help ministerial staff in preparing
rural development and agricultural projects (undated);
MINAS
-    An Operational Manual to help ministerial staff in preparing
social sector projects (1988); and
-    Five volumes of research on the Cameroonian Family (para. 23)
(1988);
MINSANTE
A proposed strategy for health coverage at the "arrondissement'
level (1986); and



7
-    A detailed proposal for an Integrated Basic Health Care project
in Lekie (North West Cameroon) (1985).
All of the above are available in the Project File.
Training. Proiect Preparation and Institution Building
21. Overseas training to a total value of about US$ 200,000 was provided
under the Credit, principally to about 15 relatively high-ranking MINFI and
MINPAT officials. These included training courses in external debt
management, economic simulation models (General Equilibrium and RMSM) and
in World Bank procurement and disbursement procedures. HINPAT officials
also attended a seminar organized by the International Development Law
Institute in Rome on technology cransfer. Staff trained under the project,
most notably senior staff of the Direction de la Dette (now Caisse
Autonome) have remained in post and are using the training they received.
22. Advisors also carried out training as part of project activities.
The projects specialist in DEP, MINAGRI, working with the Institut
Panafricain de Ddveloppement (IPD), prepared and organized a training
program for 15 MINAGRI professionals covering all aspects of rural
development and agricultural projects from identification to completion.
The course was implemented over a fifteen month period in 1986-87 and was
followed by the publication of a practical guide to management of the
project cycle in early 1988.
23. In the Ministrr of Social Affairs, the resident socio-economist took
a lead role in pursuing the Fifth Development Plan's goal of establishing
an information base on the state of the Cameroonian family. A Studies and
Projects Division was established in 1985 and the advisor worked with the
head of this service to train its 16 staff as researcher trainers using a
manual of project preparation she had drawn up. These staff, in turn,
trained over 100 local researchers and social workers. Field research and
data analysis were carried out over 18 months. In March, 1988, a national
seminar on "The Family' was organized in Yaounde to disseminate the results
of MINAS' research, identify social issues not covered by the research and
lay the basis for new policies. Over 140 staff from thirteen ministries
took part and the seminar resulted in a series of policy recommendations on
the full range of social issues. These were summarized in a paper entitled
"Towards the Year 2000'. The seminar was covered by the media and
stimulated official thinking on social problems, including the role of
women in development.
24. In MINUH, the services of a resident land survey expert were financed
for a year (para. 5). Under his guidance, the department improved its
technical capabilities in computerized land use and land survey functions.
Terms of reference for multi-purpose land use base maps of Yaound4 and
Douala were produced and nationa'l staff entered and updated land use data
for Yaound6, Douala and Ngaound6rd on computer. Staff trained by the
policy advisor in MINDIC have not only sustained but have actively built on
the project-funded advisor's achievements in computerizing the Ministry's
files and portfolio. The national counterpart who worked most closely with
the advisor was subsequently promoted to Director.



8
25. There are areas where the Project's achievements are uncertain --
IDA and Government records contain no evaluation of training activities
undertaken in MINSANTE, MINEDUC and MINPAT's Legal Division. Six manyears
of technical assistance provided to the SNI and two to MINEDUC have left no
trace other than an administrative history of the posts. No progress
reports or training programs are found in the record and, possibly because
of high staff turnover, the Authorities have not given any account of the
activities of these experts. These advisors may have fulfilled their terms
of reference conscientiously, but the impossibility, of evaluating their
activities constitutes a management failure.
Bank Performance
26. Bank preparation of TC IT was, paradoxically, both careful and
perfunctory. Four staff of the concerned Programs division and technical
staff from six Projects divisions contributed to identification and
appraisal.  The analysis of Cameroon's institutional needs and the project
objectives accurately reflected real technical requirements at that time
but it remained to some extent an academic exercise rather than the agenda
for action which was needed. There is no evidence that any formula other
than the classic 'TA package" was considered to meet Cameroon"s assistance
needs.
27. The Project Brief and decision Memorandum contain little discussion
or analysis of the administrative environment in which the project would be
implemented and the implications for the Project of the very poor
coordination among government agencies. No evidence is given to suggest
that the arrangements for project management in the field, which had failed
under TA I, were likely to work better under TC II. Finally, the degree of
political commitment to the Project or to the Development Plan itself was
not sufficiently questioned -- the record contains no mention of Cameroon's
needs as perceived by the Government as opposed to those needs as evaluated
by the Bank. A signal of the unease felt over expatriate technical
assistance was taken too lightly (para. 9).
28. The Resident Mission assisted in monitoring the Project from time to
time and, among other things, helped resolve difficulties over compliance
with Bank accounting and auditing requirements (para. 35). However, only
eight formal supervision missions were fielded from Headquarters, four of
them in the last two years of the project. There were periods of relative
inactivity, for instance no supervision was carried out between January
1984 and April 1985. The agricultural component was supervised twice and
the legal counsel and urban training sub-components each supervised once.
Generally, supervision was not frequent enough to have a sustainable impact
on implementation. Supervision of the technical components was done when
staff could spare the time and as part of their country sectoral tasks
rather than as a discrete operation. This may have reinforced the tendency
within the line ministries to think of the technical components as separate
entities rather than elements of a project whole. All supervision missions
but one noted major problems of project management. In correspondence with
the Government following each supervision, IDA expressed concern over this
but did not use the remedies available under the terms of the DCA and never
elicited any but a pro forma response.



9
29   £DA's patchy supervision performance is partly explained by a lack of
staff continuity in the Headquarters Programs, subsequently Country
Operations, division responsible for project management. At different
times, six different Bank staff had lead responsibility for the project.
Beginning in 1986, supervision missions began to focus on the lack of
compliance with audit reporting requirements and the absence of project
coordination. The task manager made it a priority to reguilarize these
anomalies and, with assistance from Resident Mission staff, some progress
was made. An audit was carried out and in late 1987 the Government filled
the vacant Project Coordinator post but it was not until yet another
Coordinator was named in late 1988, when the Project was near completion,
that any substantive exchange took place between the task manager and the
Project Coordinator.
Borrower Performance
30. General. In all, nine persons were either designated, or assumed to
be, the Project Coordinator at one time or another but none ever took an
active part in project implementation. Given the cumbersome procedures of
the administration and the fact that the Secretariat General of Plan had
the authority to make proposals for financing under the Credit but the
Direction de la Dette in MINFI, and not Plan, had signing authority for
withdrawal applications, this lack of an active Project Coordinator was a
crucial deficiency. Project administration systems evolved by default.
Department directors in the beneficiary ministries would forward proposals
to the General Secretariat of Plan (or directly to IDA which then referred
them to Plan) where they often remained under consideration for long
periods. After an internal selection procedure, proposals from the line
ministries would be forwarded to IDA for approval. This was time-
consuming, especially when proposals were made without the required
counter-signature of the Direction de la Dette or withdrawal applications
were forwarded to IDA by MINFI without a related proposal having been made
by MINPAT.
31.  Borrower Perceptions of the Proiect.    The record suggests that the
Government 'accepted' (rather than "requested') the TC II project despite
reservations over its design, in particular, the heavy expatriate technical
assistance component. Differences of perception between the Authorities
and IDA concerning the type of assistance required were implicitly
signalled by the Authorities, but IDA did not focus on these and the
Authorities did not insist (para. 9). It may have been that some
government agencies had reservations over the Project's expatriate
assistance content and what they saw as Bank 'interference' in project
management, while others, rightly or wrongly, judged that this was part of
a package and was a price they were willing to pay for concessional funds
to finance the equipment and studies they wanted. It should be borne in
mind that this was the last IDA Credit made to Cameroon before graduation
to Bank-only status.
32. During implementation, the reluctance of the Authorities to recruit
long term expatriate advisors, which it saw as imposed on them by IDA, was
clear seen and there were numerous problems associated with selection and
recruitment. In the event, the effectiveness of these advisors was wholly



10
dependent on their relationships with counterparts and their respective
directors (para. 14). Systematic, central monitoring of the advisors' work
programs and performance would have established greater accountability and
ultimately, a better spirit of collaboration between the technical
agencies. The Borrower's (brief) Project Completion Report (Part II)
states that the Project emphasized the provision of expatriate technical
assistance "much more than training or equipment supply" and goes on to
criticize, at least implicitly, the Project's failure to strengthen local
capacities and utilize local talents.
33. The record suggests that in the case of the MINSANTE advisor,
selection criteria were deficient and that the authorities failed to take
advantage of the expertise placed at their disposal. The professional
calibre of the advisor, a medical doctor, is not iL. question -- she
prepared careful sectoral analyses and a technically sound project proposal
but they have not been put to any use. Conversations with the advisor and
MINSANTE staff suggest that she was either unwilling or unable to adapt to
the host culture and environment. There is no record of her undertaking
any training or capacity-building activity at all and she seems to have
seen her assignment as a strictly technical one, overlooking the potential
catalyst role for bringing about change in MINSANTE. The application of
appropriate criteria at the selection stage might have avoided this
mismatch between advisor and task.
34. In MINUH (Habitat), the Government's evaluation of an advisor appears
to have been inappropriate. An advisor was recruited in 1984 to develop
and implement a training plan. Her terms of reference included:
i) analysis of MINUH's training needs over five years; ii) training
objectives over twelve years; iii) identification of training priorities in
each job category; and iv) the supervision and coordination of all MINUE
training and human resource development. In 1984/85, activities ranging
from one week workshops to a three week st'.dy tour were carried out.  Data
on these activities indicate a very low cost/benefit ratio. The
USS 100,000 spent on a study tour for four persons is highly questionable,
particularly since their selection does not appear to have been based on
job requirements or experience. In 1985, the expert presented medium (one-
year) and long term (five-year) training proposals which an IDA supervision
found to be seriously deficient. Despite IDA's serious reservations about
this expert's performance, in early 1986, the Government requested that her
contract be extended. IDA declined but the trainer was retained under
Government financing.
35.  Comnliance with Covenants.    Despite the lack of monitoring, it
should be noted that advisors in MINUH (Cadastre), MINAS, MINtf,NRI and
M$NDIC produced regular training programs and progress reports. However-
these were not regularly transmitted to IDA and consequently the reports
were often outdated by the time Headquarters staff with supervirion
responsibility received them. Covenants requiring the project Coordinator
to forward six monthly progress reports to the Association and to have
annual financial audits carried out were effectively ignored for much of
the project life. However, following increased pressure from IDA (para.
32), atdits were done. The first covered the period from project
effectiveness to October 1987, the second, November 1987 to December 1988,
by which time all Credit funds were committed. Both audits found that



11
Project accounts were satisfactory and that Project funds had been used for
eligible activities.
Conclusion
36. In retrospect, it is clear that MINPAT used the project as an
instrument to control, rather than mobilize, the technical- units
responsible for preparing investments under the Fifth Development Plan.
The Credit functioned in part as a contingency fund to finance ad hoc
equipment and training needs. Given the protracted life of the project,
this was very likely to happen. With the dramatic change in Cameroon's
economic position (para. 12) the Fifth Development Plan began to unravel in
1985. When that happened, there were strong forces which led the Project
to loose what cohesion it possessed. Nevertheless, TC II did effectively
contribute to elaboration and implementation of the Fifth Development Plan,
it did provide training for key staff in MINFI, MINPAT, MINAGRI and MINDIC
and finance much needed computer and other equipment for these agencies.
Furthermore, it made a material contribution to the identification and
preparation of projects in the transport, agriculture and economic
management sectors. From this perspective, the Project was a success.
37. The main weakness of the Project was that it was not adequately
managed, either by the Government or the Bank. Undertakings concerning
project monitoring and reporting were not kept (nor did IDA exert any
vigorous pressure to ensure that they were kept). Moreover, the Government
has not yet utilized some outputs of the Project although these remain
available should it decide to do so. Although these failures do not
vitiate the developmental impact of the Project, the fact that such poor
records were kept and that activities of zesident advisors were so poorly
tracked makes it very difficult to give an accurate evaluation of this
impact.   Project preparation can also be faulted: it is arguable that the
technical assistance project "packaging" with its large expatriate advisor
component and the emphasis on systems and management conditions, backed by
legal Covenants, were not central to the project's real objective but
resulted from the Bank's internal requirements. And it can also be argued
that even with satisfactory management, the objectives of the Fifth Plan
would not have been met. In either case, the experience of the TA I
project should have alerted the Bank and the Government to the fact that
the approach of TC II was flawed. The question then arises whether it
would not have been more rational simply to have provided the Government
with a line of credit for its technical assistance needs as it saw them?
38. The lessons of TA I uire not "internalized", either by the Government
or the Bank in time to avoid the pitfalls of TC II -- the conclusions
concerning the weaknesses of each operation are strikingly similar -- but
the start up of the Economic Management Project, approved in June 1989,
suggests that now these lessons have indeed been learned. All Project
components were identified by the beneficiary agencies and designed in
close collaboration with the directors and other staff who will implement
them. They constitute a common agenda to which all concerned officials are
committed. Project costing was based on the assumption that 40Z of
technical assistance services would be provided by Cameroonian nationals.
The project management secretariat was fully staffed and operational and
the Loan was effective less than six months from Board presentation.



12
Expatriate technical assistance will be required for short-term, punctual
interventions but long-term resident advisors account for only 122 of Loan
funds. All project start-up activities are on schedule or ahead of it and
the pace and quality of the communication between Washington and Yaounde
suggest that the Project will mark a new phase in Bank-provided technical
assistance to Cameroon.
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BOUdROWER'S PERSPECTIVE 4/
39. The principal project achievements were in the areas of training,
equipment supply and studies. MINPAT and MINFI staff received overseas
training and local on-the-job training; local seminars were organized for
staff of the MiniFtries of Agriculture and Social Services. Equipment
purchased under the project consisted mainly of portable computers, office
machinery and some vehicles. Studies carried out under the project covered
all the major areas identified at appraisal and included the rural
development, urbanization, health, social, commerce ar' industry sectors.
In terms of strengthening local capacities and achieving skills transfer to
national staff, the most successful of the studies were in agriculture,
where feasibility studies were done on a reform of the national extension
system, and in Social Services, where a comprehensive study on the problems
of the Cameroonian family was carried out.
40. Overall, the project emphasized the provision of expatriate expertise
and consulting services much more than the training or equipment supply
components of the project. The kind of technical assistance supplied under
this project should be targeted so as to achieve the maximum 3,,ipact at the
lowest possible cost by strengthening of local capacities and effective use
of national talents   It is not possible to affirm that this was achieved
under the project since there was no regular or systematic way to evaluate
the services of the expatriate experts deployed in the various ministries.
41   This is a translation of the evaluative sections of the Project
Completion Report prepared by the Secretariat General of the Borrower's
Ministry of Plan. The author was the last of at least nine officials who
had been notionally responsible for coordination of the Project and its
brevity reflects the difficulty of making a retrospective evaluation of an
operation for which no effective centralized monitoring was ever done or
centralized files kept. The full text of the report, in French, is
available in the Project file. It is significant that the overall
perception which comes out of the report is that the results obtained under
the main expenditure item, resident experts' services, are seen as
unquantifiable and, implicitly, of less developmental significance tnan the
results obtained from the relatively modest expenditures on overseas
training and equipment.



- 13 -
PAl tUX       STAT?SICM.L XUOUATION
Losn T;tWo                   Purpe                                 Aiooed ctt4se    Co ost
Urban It                     Consolidate effortO *rd obtlize        M3       Efective Start-u. *recao.dmt
Ln. 29990-CM                 re.ourcs lor toust.ainaile in                             oo- ech* dutl-
structure develeopnt an major
urban seanters.
Cocoa RehabilIitatien       bRehabilltatolen of eol ctild cocoa    1961      OnoIng
Ln. 29126-CiUi               plaaations; improe cocoa extnorion
ind so dw  roads; finance inputs.
Economic Mbeasg oot Projoct  Asel t imlement adjustmet  fereo    199"        Ongoing   itftfs.ve January 109
Ln. 3110-CU                  and Improve oanagomoat Of ecoee                           Consul teat recruitment
uner way.
Public Enterprisse           Formulte" recaesenatione for           .e.                Under ePot1" to
Rehabilitatioa             trealaining public s*ectr through                               PGMA%&e  a
1liquidation, privatization or                             *Cl.
reotructuring of state *ntrpri ee
Food Security                Promet  rural micro-eanterpel,        t ..                       pr_t tioa in
t-pr Wo  crgf ekta    y t _m
*ah l- l *w   bIriltiae l eso
prico     ob ler  o tiea.
2.    Proiect Timetable
Date              Date                     Date
Planned           Revised                 Actual
Identification                                                           12/79
Preparation                   05/80                                      05180
Appraisal                     12180                                       12180
Cr. Negotiations              04181                                      04181
Board Approval                06/81                                      06/81
Cr. Signature                 11181                                       11181
Cr. Effectiveness             02/82              02182                   06/82
Completion                    06/85              06/85                   12/88
Cr. Closing                   12/85              12/85
12/86
12/87
12/88                   06/89



- 14 -
1. Projlct Costs and F1nancino
A. Project Cost.
Appraisal Estimato         Reviosd Estomte             Actual
- US$ "N -
Item                      Foreign                    ForeIgn                  Foreign
Local  Exchang            Local  Exchang            Local Exchaios
CoO"    Cost    TOotl   Cod                 Total   Cost   Costa    Totai
Resident
Speciallta                2,805    2,65              2,665    2,365           5,550     $,550
Consultant
ServIces S                 4,604   4,504              3,244   3,244            3,760    $,750
Training
Vehicles, Eqpt.
and Supplis                  W8      596               59S       6N             500       500
Una Ilo ated               5,023   5,023              3,293    8,193              -         -
Local
Personnel        390        -        $90   390                        J90                 390
Opereting Costs   400                 400   400                        400                 400
790     12,990  13,730   790       10,000 10,0O0  790    0,600    10,690
3. Prolect ilnuncind
Soure           Planned         Revised        Final        Coe_nta
- (Crdit Agr  ocnt)
IDA              10.0             10.0          9.           Baa Snce
Cancelled
GOC               3.6              0.6          0.6
Total            13.6             10.6         10.6
Comments: The Credit Agreemnt was *aendd 23 October 1064 to allow tor 1OX IDA financing of consultant
service  and training. Direct GOC financing which had ben xpected to cover 305 of short-tare consultanta,
32X of non-allocated and contingencels and 10OX of local "alarie and operating costt was revieod to cover
only local salaries and operating coSt.
4. Cumulativ Estimated and Actual Dlobursemnto
8  1993  1984 A! 198  197 A918 U99
- USS millIons equivalent -
Estimated at Appraisal     1.5  4.9  7.9  10.0
Actual                     0.0  0.0  0.5  1.6  3.5  5.2  8.2  90.
Actual I of Estimate         0     0   1.0  13.0 36.0  52.0 62.0  98.0



- 15 -
S.     Status of Credit Covenants
Cov-nant                      Subject                        Dondlin-            Status
OCA Reference
Soction 2.03      Submit TORo  qualifications and          Ongoing/Recurrent   Complied with.
contracts wr resident xperto and
consultants to IDA for prior review.
Section 2.03      Procure vehicloe  and equp ment through  Ongoing/Recurrent   Complied with.
local competitive bidd ng.
Section 3.01(b)   Annual Sudget allocatione to support            Yearly        Complied alth.
operoting coto.
Section 3.02(c)   t4ni-snnual progres-  reviews            Ongoing/Recurrent   Not compiled
with.
Section 8.04      Availability of Caomroonian counter-    Ongoing/Recurrent   Partially
parts for expatriate exports.                                complied with.
Section 3804      Submit documentation for proposed        Ongoing/Recurrent   Complied with.
studteo or training to 1D.
Section 4.02      Standard suditing and fineacial                Yearly         Fitrt audt don
accounting requiremont                                       -in 19W? retro-
ectively to
effectiveness
Special Disbursemnt Condition
Section 3.02(a)   Appoint and maintsin In MINEP a          Not specitfied
qualified project coordinator.
Par*. 3(b) of     Establish a planning and studios                 n.o.         Complied with.
Schedulo 1        unit in the Ministry of Social Affairs



- 16 -
6.  Use of Bonk Rmoourco
A. Staff Input
The mIS data doe" not go beyond 1932. No information is therefore
available on proporat;on, approioal and negotiations inputs.
No. of   Days in Specializations Perforwance  Rating
e. Miloion Data       Dote   Persona  Field    Reproented /a  Status /b    Toend /c
Appraisal             12/69      4        9         RR, LO
Supervision S         07/68      2      n.e.        RR, EC            2           2
Supervision It        01/64      2      na.         RR, EC            2           2
Supervision III       94/65      1        7           TM              2           2
Supervision IV        11/65      2        4         TM, AG            1           2
Supervision V         67/63      1        5           AO            n.o           2
Suporvislon VI        11/86      1        S           TM                          I 1
Supervision VII       10/97      1       1S           TM              2           2
Supervision VtlS      12/63      1       is           TM              2           2
Copelotion            08/89      1        4           TM
Key:
a    RR   Rtesident Mission Staff             I1  1  Improving
LO   Loan Officor                            2  Stationary
EC   Economist                               3 Deteriorating
TM   Task Manager (generalst)
AG Agriculture spoclal lt
d/  M  Manoagment
b/   1 Problem/free or Minor problems             P  Recruitment and implementation
2  Moderate problems                            delays due to lack of political
3  Major problem                                comiteent to the project



- 17 -
T A 8 L E
Studio Financed undr the Credit
Study                    Contractor              Cost              Cormnts
AGRICULTURE SECTR
Audits of Agricultural   Inter-Fiduclaire  CFAF  57.00WO.  These cooperatfvee
Cooperativ v             WANSSY             CFAF 149.0IW.M   have ben, or are
OROEX             CFAF  64.00968.   in the procoss of
ECA               CFAF  40.0.ee   being, restructured.
Afex Lottin       CFAF  20.e.I00W   The audito and study
of farmers'n- do are
Coordinatlon of above    CENADEC-AFCA       CFAF 45.000.GW  key Inputs to preparing
sector operationo inc
Farm_rso Need            SEDA               CFAF  U .009.99   Cocoa Rehabiltation
Project.
PE RESTRUCTURING
Diagnostic studice of    AGRER                USS 429,9W      Of a total USI 1.?
some 76 public sector    CIFPS                USS 222,9n      mIlIlon budgeted for
nteorprime, banks and   ICA                   USS 496,9W      thes nstudies, US
financial Institutions   ITA                  US$  B,1ea      1.1 aillion was
L.BERGER            USS lCO.010    provided from Crdit
1160
12 individuals      USS 260,999
TERITORIAL DEVELOPMENT
Study of cowunol         Hult-3renf         CfAF  92,999,999  Key inputs to the
finanes and municipal                                         formulation of future
dev-lopment.                                                  *ecto  strategy and
repa ration of the
Urb n II and Food
Security projects
Dlognostie study of    BREEF              CFAF   S,000, W   supported by Bank
Dousla's finances
SOMENS' AFFAIRS
Women in Developmnt      IDET CECOS         CFAF  33,9009,00  BDing used to develop
Plan of Action t ensure
full part for WoMh,A in
developmnt.



