mILE COpY
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3074-CM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR A
SECOND TECHNICAL COOPERATION PROJECT
June 4, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND TECHNICAL COOPERATION PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =         CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                  =         CFAF 235 1/
CFAF 1,000,000        =         US$4,255
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
CDC            Commonwealth Development Corporation
DEP            Directorate of Studies and Projects
DI             Directorate of Industry
FONADER        Fonds National de Developpetient Rural
GTZ            Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusaimienarbeit
MINAGRI        Ministry of Agriculture
MINAS          Ministry of Social Affairs
MINEP          Ministry of Economy and Plan
MINFI          Ministry of Finance
MINMEN         Ministry of Mines and Energy
MINTRANS       Ministry of Transport
MINUH          Ministry of Urbanism and Housing
SCM            Societe Caimerounaise de Minoterie
SNI            Societe Nationale d-Investissement
SODECOTON      Societe de Developpement du Coton du Cameroun
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
1/ The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of FF 1
to CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND TECHNICAL COOPERATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      United Republic of Cameroon
Amount:        SDRs 8.2 million (US$10 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard
Project
Description:   The aim of the project would be to increase the Government's
capacity to execute its Fifth Development Plan (1981-86). Its
basic strategy would be to create this increased capacity on
three levels, by: (a) improvements in the organization and
operations of the existing national planning and external debt
management systems; (b) better definition of policies and
investment programs in four key sectors--agriculture, industry,
energy and social development; and (c) generating sound projects
and improving project management capacity in these sectors. The
project would help to promote self-reliance in these areas by
stressing training to increase Cameroonian staff skills and
experience.
The project would include the provision of 24 staff-years of
expatriate resident specialists, 320 months of short-term
consulting services and related vehicles, office equipment,
local staff and operating costs. About one-fifth of Credit
funds would finance activities to be identified in agreement
with the Association during project implementation which
serve project objectives. The principal risks associated with
achieving the project's aim involve possible delays in provid-
ing qualified expatriate resident specialists, difficulty in
recruiting and retaining trained Cameroonian staff, and
inadequate review and action by Government on the project's
policy and program recommendations. The experience of the
First Technical Assistance Project has helped the Government
and Association to agree upon measures designed to mitigate
these risks, including early recruitment of resident specialists,
commitments in the provision of related Cameroonian staff and
facilities, and regular reviews with concerned authorities of
the progress of project implementation as well as the recom-
mendations and results arising from specific activities.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
(exempt of taxes and duties)
US$ million
Local       Foreign       Total
Development planning,
sector policies and programs           1.3           3.3          4.6
External debt management                0.1           0.3          0.4
Project generation
and management                         0.7           1.3          2.0
Cameroonian staff
training                               0.3           1.0          1.3
Activities to be identified              0.6          2.2          2.8
Total base costs                        3.0           8.1         11.1
Physical and price contingencies        0.8           1.9          2.7
Total Project Costs                     3.8          10.0         13.8
Financing Plan:
US$ million
Local       Foreign       Total
IDA                       -           10.0         10.0
Government               3.8           -            3.8
Total                    3.8          10.0         13.8
Estimated Disbursement:
US$ million
IDA Fiscal Year            82      83       84     85
Annual                     1.5     3.4      3.0    2.1
Cumulative                 1.5     4.9      7.9   10.0
Rate of Return: N.A.
There is no separate Appraisal Report.
Map: IBRD 12186 R2



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR A SECOND TECHNICAL COOPERATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development Credit to the United Republic of Cameroon for SDRs 8.2 million
(US$10 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Second
Technical Cooperation Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "United Republic of Cameroon Economic Memorandum"
(No. 2977-CM), was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 30, 1980.
Annex I provides basic country data.
Background
3.        Cameroon is one of Africa's most diversified countries with a wide
range of ecological conditions, ethnic groups and cultures. Cameroon was a
federation from the date of independence in 1960, until the United Republic,
which unified the anglophone western and francophone eastern parts of the
country, was established in 1972. The Government was concentrated on the
establishment and maintenance of national unity between the eastern and
relatively small western parts of the country and between the sahelian zone in
the north with Muslim traditions and the southern tropical regions.
4.        Cameroon has a population of 8.3 million (1979) and covers an area
of 475,000 km2. The main opportunities for development lie in the expansion
of agricultural production, including forestry, oil, gas, mineral and hydro-
electric development, and the processing of agricultural, forestry and mineral
products for export. Soils and climatic conditions permit cultivation of a
wide range of crops, and the southeast contains large untapped timber re-
sources. The north holds potential for livestock development. Cameroon
became an oil producer and exported 645,000 tons of crude petroleum in 1978.
Crude oil exports reached 1.6 million tons in 1979 and are estimated at about
3 million tons in 1980. Trade, transportation and transit services are other
important economic activities. Cameroon-s main economic centers are separated
by large areas of low population density; furthermore, the country's transport
facilities also serve landlocked Chad and the Central African Republic. A
large port and adequate inland transportation infrastructure are therefore
essential for promoting agriculture, forestry and industry, and for streng-
thening Cameroon's role as a regional trade center.



-2-
Past Performance
5.        GDP growth was about 4.5 percent per year during both the Second
five-year Plan (1966-71) and the Third Plan (1971-76), and accelerated to
7.3 percent during 1976/79, the first three years of the Fourth Plan. Popu-
lation growth is estimated at about 1.8 percent a year in the 1960s, about
1.9 percent until the mid-1970s and about 2.3 percent from 1975 to 1980. Per
capita GNP reached about US$560 in 1979.
6.        Most agricultural crops, livestock, fishing and forestry experienced
high growth rates during 1966-71 thanks to favorable supply and demand condi-
tions including high producer prices, high domestic income growth and rapid
economic expansion abroad. Lower agricultural growth during 1971-76 was due
in part to decreases in the output of two major commercial crops, cocoa and
arabica coffee. Important factors contributing to this trend were declines
in producer prices compared with food cash crop prices and the termination of
the foreign supported fertilizer subsidy program for arabica coffee. The
decline in cocoa and arabica. coffee output was not fully offset by growth in
other important commercial crops, including cotton, rubber, and oil palm.
Growth in forestry production dropped during 1971-76 because of reduced
Western European demand and some transportation bottlenecks.
7.        Manufacturing and mining grew at about 10 percent a year during
1966-71 mainly on account of the rapid development of import substitution
industries, particularly those manufacturing consumer goods. The lower
manufacturing growth experienced during 1971-76 was due to the slowdown in new
import substitution activities and to slower income growth resulting from
deteriorating terms of trade.
8.        Since 1976, Cameroon has experienced rapid growth in most major
sectors. Agricultural growth was helped by recovery in cocoa and robusta
coffee production, as farmers responded to higher producer prices, and in
forestry production. The construction industry grew by 14 percent a year
during 1976-79 as large investments were undertaken for the implementation of
the Fourth Plan. The rapid increase in incomes and the high growth rate of
economic activities has led to substantial growth in most other sectors,
particularly food crops, trade, transport and other services.
Investment and Savings
9.        During the Second Plan period (1966-71), the investment rate,
including increases in stocks, exceeded 16 percent of GDP, and gross domestic
savings and gross national savings were 13.4 and 12.6 percent of GDP respec-
tively. Foreign resources financed about 33 percent of investment during this
period. During the Third Plan period (1971-76), despite slow income growth,
the investment rate increased to 18.1 percent of GDP. Gross domestic savings
rose to 16.4 percent of GDP, but gross national savings rose only to 13.9
percent of GDP and debt service increased by 60 percent from a small base.
External resources therefore continued to finance about one-third of total
investment during this period. The higher savings rate in a period of slow



- 3 -
output growth was made possible by a considerable reduction in the real growth
of consumption, particularly private consumption, to less than 3 percent per
annum. One of the prices paid for the substantial improvement in savings
during the Third Plan was, however, a limitation on farmers earnings in tree
crops and the provision of inadequate incentives for them to maintain and
expand production capacity through efficient use of existing trees and new
plantings; this situation may have serious implications for the longer term
future of these crops. The maintenance of a high investment rate during this
period was offset by a decline in the efficiency of investment. Some reduc-
tion in capital productivity was attributable to the undertaking of projects,
such as oil exploration and transport infrastructure, leading to production
increases only a number of years later, and to social infrastructure invest-
ments, improving welfare but having a limited immediate impact on output.
During 1976-79, the investment rate reached an average of 23.8 percent of GDP.
Due largely to the record cocoa and coffee export prices, gross domestic
savings and gross national savings increased further to 20.8 and 18.6 percent
respectively of GDP. As a result, external resources were required to finance
only about 30 percent of total investment during these three years..
Public Finance and Balance of Payments
10.       Budgetary revenue amounted to about 15 percent of GDP during each of
the past two plan periods, and increased slightly in 1976-79. Public savings
after debt service as a percentage of total public investment declined from
about 39 percent in 1966-71 to about 36 percent in 1971-76. During 1976-79,
this ratio reached 55 percent thanks to the public savings mobilized by the
Stabilization Funds. The balance of payments did not become a problem until
1974-76, when agricultural exports declined, particularly exports of cocoa and
timber, resulting in sizeable current account deficits. The bulk of the
current account deficits was financed by net capital inflows but a substantial
drawdown of international reserves also took place in 1975.  Therefore, net
official international reserves decreased from more than two months of imports
in 1974 to less than one month in 1975.  In 1977-80, exports rose substantially
(at an average annual rate of 26 percent) but imports also increased (at an
average annual rate of 20 percent) because of rapid economic growth and
expanded investment. Gross official international reserves were rebuilt in
1976-80, in part by the use of IMF credits, but net official international
reserves were about one month of imports at mid-1979. This was a low level by
international standards but still acceptable considering Cameroon's membership
in the Central African Monetary Union. Provisional estimates indicate exchange
reserves as rising again in 1980 to a level equivalent to about two months of
imports.
Development Issues and Prospects
11.       A major part of Cameroon s medium- and long-term potential lies
largely in the development of a diversified agricultural sector providing
export crop production to help generate foreign exchange and domestic food
crop production to meet the needs of a growing urban population. Realizing
this potential depends upon an appropriate mix of public intervention and



- 4 -
policy measures aiming at stimulating private initiative. Factors that
complicate the agricultural development effort in Cameroon are the disper-
sion of the main economic and population centers, regional and institu-
tional diversity, the competition between export and cash food crops for the
dwindling agricultural labor in some parts of the country, the dependence of a
substantial part of public revenue and savings on cocoa and coffee, and the
limited availability of skilled agricultural agents and administrators.
Through technical assistance and education projects and through normal project
work, the Bank is supporting Cameroon's effort in manpower training and
development in agricultural services, and in other sectors. In industry the
Government has moved to channel more financial resources for investment
directly through the public sector, in addition to the indirect support
provided by tax incentives and other measures, which have been in existence
for many years. The Government has actively participated in a Bank study of
the manufacturing sector which will help to identify opportunities to develop
existing as well as new industrial activities, and enhance the efficiency and
competitiveness of Cameroonian enterprises.
12.       The outlook for agricultural and industrial growth during 1980-86 is
quite favorable. Agricultural growth expectations are based on some increase
in cocoa output above 110,000 tons; recovery of robusta coffee; continuing
expansion for arabica coffee; increased production of most other commercial
and food crops, as well as of livestock; and expansion of commercial forestry
production. Growth of industrial and mining production is expected to result
from existing and expanded manufacturing facilities (particularly for food,
beverages and construction materials), some new industrial projects and from
crude oil and new mining ventures. Given the stepped-up production and
investment activities, a high growth rate is also expected for construction
and services.
13.       Cameroon s vast and still largely unexploited natural resources,
particularly agricultural, forestry, hydroelectric and mineral resources, will
continue to provide a fundamental basis for its growth and development in the
next 20 years. With the revenue from oil production, which is expected to
considerably exceed its current level of 3 million tons a year, in addition
to resources accruing from traditional agricultural exports and external
borrowing, the constraints on the pace of development in Cameroon in the 1980s
and 1990s will be increasingly non-financial. The extent to which Cameroon
succeeds in expanding and improving its manpower and institutional capacities
will determine its degree of success in mounting an effective investment
program to promote economic and social development.
Fourth Development Plan (1976-81)
14.       Cameroon is now completing the implementation of its Fourth Economic
and Social Development Plan Private investment has been encouraged, under
Government guidelines, to expand productive capacity in agriculture, forestry,
mining, and manufacturing. Part of the financing of private investment
activities, however, is pub:Licly guaranteed borrowing. Planned investment of
some US$3.1 billion (in 1974/75 prices) was about 40 percent higher in real



- 5 -
terms than the estimated level achieved during the Third Plan period and more
than double previous Plan expenditures in nominal terms. Actual investment
during the first three years of the Plan is estimated at about US$2.2 billion
(in 1974/75 prices) for an annual rate about 60 percent higher in real terms
than annual investment during the Third Plan.
External Borrowing and Creditworthiness
15.       Total public and publicly guaranteed debt outstanding and disbursed
rose from US$515 million at the end of the Third Plan period to US$1.6 billion
at the end of 1979, and is expected to exceed US$2 billion in 1981, the last
year of the Fourth Plan. Debt service payments rose from US$39 million in
1976 to US$126 million in 1979, while exports of goods and services increased
from US$715 million to more than US$1.3 billion during the same period. Not-
withstanding a hardening of average terms since the early 1970s, Cameroon's
debt service ratio was still less than 10 percent at the end of 1979, up from
5-1/2 percent in the mid-1970s. The debt service ratio is projected to peak
at about 14 percent in 1982 and to stay in the 12 to 14 percent range through-
out the remainder of the decade. This projection assumes that the amount of
loans contracted during 1982-86 will be slightly above the average! annual
amounts contracted in 1977-81, and that there will be no dramatic change in
the assistance programs and project intentions of official donors. Borrowing
on non-concessionary terms would account for about two-thirds of total new
commmitments, and average terms would harden during the period. Because of
higher debt service payments, projected average annual net disbursements would
be less than during the preceding five-year period but, with Cameroon's
favorable export and savings prospects, would be sufficient to allow an invest-
ment rate of above 25 percent, as well as the restoration of a healthy
foreign exchange reserve osition.  Or the basis of these considerations and
its ability to utilize productively the country's resources and favorable
potential in further diversifying and strengthening the economy, Cameroon is
judged to be creditworthy for Bank financing. However, taking into account
certain inherent difficulties in forecasting future petroleum reserves, output
and revenues, and in recognition of the fact that Cameroon remains, despite
its improved prospects, a low middle income country, it is recommended that
elements of concessionary financing be retained at least for the next year or
two.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAMEROON
16.       The Bank and IDA commitments in Cameroon now amount to US$590.9
million and cover 36 projects: 17 in agriculture, 11 in transportation,
three in education, two in public utilities, two small- and mediulm-scale
enterprises projects and one technical assistance project. Transport accounts
for the largest share (45 percent) of these commitments, followed by agricul-
ture (41 percent). Annex II contains a summary statement of Banr loans and
IDA credits as of March 31, 1981, including notes on the execution of ongoing



- 6 -
projects. Although delays and setbacks have occasionally been encountered in
the implementation of projects, the Government has consistently shown willing-
ness to collaborate with the Bank in finding solutions to such problems.
17.       The Bank Group's strategy is to support the Government in its
efforts to increase productivity in both export and food crop production and
to alleviate rural poverty; to upgrade the operation and maintenance of the
country's infrastructure; to foster the efficient allocation of resources,
including investments in the new sectors; to stimulate investment by local
entrepreneurs; and to increase the Government's ability to elaborate and
execute its Fifth Development Plan (1981-86).
18.       The Government-s objectives in the agricultural and rural sector
are: (a) to achieve balanced and integrated regional development; (b) to
improve income distribution and to raise living standards in the rural areas;
(c) to increase production of essential foodstuffs; and (d) to promote plan-
tation agriculture, including smallholder schemes. The Bank has helped the
Government develop agricultural resources in the southern and western parts of
Cameroon, by financing three oil palm and rubber plantation projects. The
Bank has financed two smallholder rice irrigation projects in the north, as
well as a smallholder cocoa project which is modernizing cocoa farming and
increasing rural productivity in the areas south and west of the capital city
of Yaounde. The Second Livestock Project will benefit traditional herdsmen
and farmers in central and western Cameroon. The Government's objectives
have also been supported by four Bank-assisted rural development projects in
populated but poor regions of Cameroon--Plaine des M'Bo on the western plain,
ZAPI in the east, the Western Highland, and the Northern Province. These
projects include studies, trial activities, agronomic and technological
packages and infrastructure for improving agricultural productivity. The
recently approved Northern Province Rural Development Project will provide
SODECOTON and the Government: with financial and technical assistance for
planning and coordination at: the provincial level and for strengthening
agricultural research, thus enabling them to take a broader approach to rural
development in the north, including crop diversification, reforestation, and
improvement of rural infrastructure. The ongoing Rural Development Fund
Project is designed to help the Government establish machinery for processing
and implementing small-scale rural subprojects, initially in the north. The
Bank is currently identifying an agricultural research project which would
strengthen the newly created Delegation Generale de Recherche Scientifique et
Technique and sub-sectoral research operations by providing facilities,
training, extension and evaluation services.
19.       In view of the crucial importance of transportation to the econo-
mic growth of Cameroon and neighboring countries, the Government has devoted
the largest portion of public investment to this sector. The Bank Group,
together with other development institutions, has substantially aided the
development of adequate transport facilities. The First, Second and Third
Highway Projects were designed to help complete the country's basic trunk
road system. A Feeder Roads Project approved in 1977 is establishing institu-
tions for feeder road administration and maintenance in addition to providing



- 7 -
the necessary resources for a feeder road program to support high priority
agricultural/rural development projects. The Fourth Highway Project concen-
trates on road maintenance and rehabilitation and included funds for feasi-
bility studies for the construction of a two-lane heavy duty road between
Yaounde and Douala. The latter is proposed under the Fifth Highway Project,
now at an advanced stage of preparation, with proposed financing by the Bank
and other co-financiers. The first three railway projects were designed to
finance urgently needed infrastructure improvements and to prepare follow-up
projects. The Fourth Railway Project is helping to finance the newr Douala
marshalling yard, maintenance facilities at Yaounde, railway equipment, and
technical assistance for improvements in operations, management and training.
Given projected traffic increases, and the backlog of required investments
in the transport sector, substantial capital outlays are still necessary--
particularly for the construction of the Douala-Yaounde road, the expansion of
the Port of Douala, which is being assisted by a Bank loan and IDA credit, and
for related facilities such as those being financed by the Fourth Railway
Project. Future road investments could possibly include financing of strategic
international routes, but should place greater emphasis on road maintenance
and on developing the network of forestry, feeder and farm access roads.
20.       In other sectors, the First Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise (SME)
Project, approved in 1975, focuses mainly on developing local entrepreneurship.
The Second SME Project, approved in 1980, aims to further assist Cameroonian
artisans and small- and medium-scale enterprises and strengthen BCD, a deve-
lopment finance agency. A Third Education Project, approved in April 1976,
places special emphasis on rural education and training. The Second Water
Supply Project of December 1979 will provide water to 13 secondary centers,
reinforce and expand water supply systems in Douala and Yaounde, and includes
sewerage and drainage mastt±r plan studies for these two cities. At Lhe same
time an urban development project is being prepared which is designed to
upgrade several low-income settlements and develop sites and services in
Douala and Yaounde.
21.       All Bank projects in Cameroon include training, technical assistance,
and other provisions needed to strengthen institutions and improve sector
policies. The First Technical Assistance Project approved in June 1977
supports Government services in several key ministries involved in investment
planning, policy analysis and project processing. The proposed Second Tech-
nical Cooperation Project presented in this report would increasingly stress
the development of a self-reliant capacity to perform these functions and
extend them to units managing other key sectors of the economy. The Bank's
lending strategy will continue to emphasize institution building, particularly
in the areas of sector planning, project preparation, and project implementa-
tion in transportation and rural and urban development. The Bank will also
continue to assist the Government in developing policies in newer sectors of
activity. The Bank has carried out sector studies in industry, forestry,
energy, and in telecommunications. Future projects have already been tenta-
tively identified through these studies.



- 8 -
22.       During the second half of the 1960s, overall disbursements of
official development assistance to Cameroon amounted to about US$40-45 million
a year. While at the beginning of this period two-thirds of aid funds were
grants, the proportion of loans slowly increased. A major part of the external
assistance was provided by France and was concentrated in infrastructure and
the productive sectors. The European Development Fund and European Investment
Bank directed most of their lending to agriculture, with infrastructure next
in magnitude. Bank and IDA disbursements were small during this period.
Since 1972 overall disbursements of foreign aid have increased to about US$90
million a year with only one-fifth as grants. The Bank and IDA's share of
these inflows has amounted to about 23 percent and lending to Cameroon has
been closely coordinated with other donors; in 16 of the 36 Bank projects,
joint or parallel cofinancing arrangements have been made and cofinancing is
being actively sought for several future projects. Cameroon is now borrowing
an increasing proportion of its funds from private sources; such borrowing
rose to over 40 percent of the total in 1975-79 compared with only 11 percent
in 1967-69.
23.       Cameroon's public debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 31,
1979 amounted to US$1.7 billion, 7.7 percent of which was due to Bank loans
and 7.6 percent to IDA credits. Bank loans accounted for 9.5 percent of
public debt service at that date, and IDA credits for 0.6 percent. By
1985, the public debt outstanding and disbursed is projected to reach US$2.9
billion, and annual foreign aid disbursements may amount to over US$480
million. In 1985, Bank loans and credits are expected to account for about
18 percent of total public debt and 10 percent of public debt service.
24.       In October 1974, Cameroon became IFCGs 100th member.  IFC-s first
operation in Cameroon, approved in May 1975, was a US$380,000 underwriting to
bring domestic shareholders into a previously wholly foreign-owned shoe manu-
facturing company. In September 1976, the IFC Board approved an equity
investment of about US$800,000 in a foreign-owned rubber estate (SAFACAM),
which is currently the second largest rubber producer in Cameroon. The
investment is assisting in the rehabilitation and diversification of an
existing estate that will produce rubber for export and palm oil for the
domestic market. The operation will also facilitate participation of domestic
shareholders in the estate. The Board approved a second equity investment in
SAFACAM of US$390,000 equivalent in September 1978. The increased capitaliza-
tion was required to finance the construction of a palm oil pressing mill.
25.       In November 1977, the Board approved a third IFC operation, an
investment of up to US$125,000 in the share capital of a promotional company
for maize development. No commitment is being made on this investment
since the original technical partner was replaced and major changes were made
in the arrangements expected earlier. In April 1979, the Board approved an
IFC investment of US$7.93 million consisting of US$7 million loan and US$0.93
million equivalent in equity in a Cameroonian aluminium producing company,
ALUCAM, to help expand the company's production capacity. In January 1981, the
Board approved an IFC investment of US$1.32 million consisting of 1.12 million
loan and US$0.20 million equivalent in equity in SCM for food and food processing.



- 9 -
Annex II contains a summary statement of IFC investments in the coxntry as of
March 31, 1981. IFC commitments in Cameroon total US$10.60 million - a loan
of US$8.12 million, and US$2.48 million in equity participation.
PART III - THE CONTINUING NEED FOR TECHNICAL COOPERATION
Results of the First Technical Assistance Project
26.       As Cameroon embarked upon its ambitious Fourth Development Plan
(1976-81), it was recognized that this would entail increasingly complex
sector policy decisions, investment choices and project operations. The
anticipated growth in public investment programs and the capital likely to
be available contrasted sharply with the limited experience of much of the
Government's staff to manage this effort and the declining trends in the real
levels of technical assistance flows. Thus, the Executive Directors approved
in December 1976 a US$4.5 million technical assistance credit (Report No.
P-1951-CM) which was designed to increase the Government-s capacity to manage
development projects in key sectors and to formulate viable projects for
financing by Government and external agencies. About one-third of this financ-
ing was directed towards the Ministry of Agriculture (MINAGRI), with the
remainder allocated to the Ministries of Economy and Plan (MINEP), Mines and
Energy (MINMEN), Transport (MINTRANS), and Urbanism and Housing (MINUH).
Ninety-five percent of the proceeds of the credit are committed and disburse-
ments at end-March 1981 totalled US$2.1 million (47 percent of the total
credit). It is expected to be fully disbursed by June 1982, two years behind
schedule.
27.       Progress has been made towards planning and preparing projects for
financing (to which about 47 percent of the credit was devoted), particularly
for the agricultural and urban sectors. The Directorate of Studies and
Projects (DEP) in MINAGRI, with the support 'of the project's three resident
expatriate specialists, has helped to prepare two major projects (Lekie
MBam and the restructuring of coffee cooperatives in Mungo District) and
has participated with consultants in the preparation of four others (National
Seeds Plan, Northwest Highlands Integrated Development Project, Food Crop
Marketing Project, and Rice Development Project--Baigon Plains),several of
which have led to new investments. Preparation activities for ten other
agricultural projects (including HEVECAM II and the Northern Province Deve-
lopment) have also been financed via the project and have led to cofinancing
by a number of external agencies. The DEP has also helped prepare a long-term
sector plan to the year 2000 and contributed to the supervision cf on-going
activities such as FONADER, Zapi East and Plaine des M Bo. In MINIH, studies
have been completed in preparation for an urban development project proposed
to be financed by the Bank and Switzerland which is designed to upgrade living
conditions in low-income areas of Yaounde and Douala. Other studies have been
carried out to prepare for the modernization of 13 water supply systems in
secondary urban centers in Cameroon-s Northwest and Southwest provinces (being
financed by the Bank under the Second Water Supply Project and by the Common-
wealth Development Corporation). In transport, the resident specialist has



- 10 -
helped to organize a planning unit within MINTRANS as well as a road transport
planning exercise for the 1981-86 Fifth Development Plan, to implement a
traffic origin-destination study, a cost/tariff structure study of road
transport, and helped to improve statistical services in the Ministry. A
study for wood processing is getting underway which should also provide the
basis for productive investment.
28.       The transfer of skills via on-the-job training to increase the
Cameroonian staff's capacity in both the DEP of MINAGRI and MINUH to prepare
and supervise projects is difficult to evaluate. Indications are, however,
that Cameroonian staff have gained a sense of initiative and basic competence
in these areas, particularly by being directly involved in specific aspects of
the preparation of feasibility studies. This approach has been reinforced
with more formal programs for the DEP carried out by the Pan-African Institute
for Development, in micro- and macro-economics, agricultural planning methods,
sectoral and project preparation studies.
29.       Pressures to do line work and a lack of expertise in training tech-
niques have hampered several resident specialists from preparing Cameroonian
staff for fuller participation in the project cycle. In other instances,
delays in obtaining housing, office facilities and support staff detracted
specialists from their work. The shortage and high turnover of qualified
Cameroonian staff have similarly reduced the project-s lasting impact. The
proposed project includes design improvements in these areas aimed to increase
the effectiveness of specialists (para. 50) and to reduce staff turnover
(para. 39).
The Need for a Second Project
30.       The Government's recent review of Cameroon's economy over the past
20 years has led to a recognition of certain basic requirements if the rate of
past progress is to be sustained over the next two decades. The Fifth Develop-
ment Plan (1981-86) will contain a substantially enlarged investment program
emphasizing increased assistance to smallholder agriculture, high food crop
production and increased productivity of export crops. High priority will be
given to expanding the relative share of industrial activity in the economy.
The maintenance of growth will also require accelerated development of major
remaining natural resources such as forests, non-petroleum minerals, hydropower
and other alternative energy sources, and fisheries. As in the past, such
development will be guided by principles of promoting more equitable regional
development, better income distribution and equal access to essential services.
This in turn will require intensive efforts to ensure appropriate sector
policies and sound project management in traditional areas like agriculture;
to set up new development policies and investment programs in areas of emerging
economic activity; and to sustain the prudent national economic management
approach of recent years.
31.       Yet the substantiaL expansion of the economy during the Fourth Plan
has already revealed the need to increase qualified Cameroonian staff and
improve institutions if the :increasingly complex investment programs and proj-
ects are not to fall short ofS their aims. The probable increase in petroleum



- 11 -
revenues is likely to eventually only reinforce the need to increase absorptive
capacity. Without a considerable increase in technical assistance designed to
reinforce the Government's capacity to plan, prepare and supervise development
efforts, the achievements of the coming Fifth Plan may be substantially less
than those potentially attainable.
32.       Cameroon has in the past secured technical assistance from diverse
bilateral sources and multilateral organizations. Bilateral cooperation,
representing about four-fifths of the total, has generally tended to focus on
the agriculture, education, health and transport sectors with an orientation
toward specific operating entities within each. Multilateral aid other than
that of the Association has concentrated upon education, health and natural
resources. The Government is now seeking a second credit from the Association
mainly to enlarge and strengthen the capacity of the planning, project prepara-
tion and project supervision capacity of the central departments rather than
specific operating entities. In addition, to minimize the risk of duplication,
the proposed project-s design has been coordinated with the technical assis-
tance provided to Cameroon by other organizations, particularly in the areas
of agriculture and development planning, which welcome the Bank's partici-
pation. Other activities carried out under the project would be similarly
coordinated.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
33.       The proposed project was identified during discussions with the
Government in December 1979. Project design and preparations were subsequently
undertaken by the Government and reviewed with the Association in May 1980.
The project was appraised in December 1980 and negotiations held in Washington
from April 14 to 17, 1981. The Cameroonian delegation was led by H.E. Benoit
Bindzi, Cameroon Ambassador to the USA. There is no separate appraisal report
for the project. Key events and special conditions are listed in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
34.       The principal aim of the project would be to increase the Govern-
ment's capacity to excute its Fifth Development Plan (1981-86). Its immediate
objectives over a four-year period would be to help promote:
(a)  sound allocation of investment resources during Cameroon's Fifth
Development Plan by improving (i) the operations of the existing
national planning system, and (ii) sector policies and programs in
agriculture, industry, energy, and social development;
(b)  effective utilization of investment resources in these sectors by
(i) financing project preparation activities; and (ii) reinforcing
Government's capacity to manage the development project cycle;



- 12 -
(c) appropriate external financing of investments by improving external
debt management; and
(d)  effective performance by Cameroonian staff in these areas by
increasing staff skills and experience.
The following paragraphs outline the project's components, activities and the
inputs required for their execution.
35.       Development Planning. The Ministry of Economy and Plan (MINEP) has
demonstrated its basic capacity to prepare Cameroon s five-year development
plans as well as long-term retrospective and prospective analyses. MINEP's
performance could nevertheless be improved given better statistical informa-
tion and analyses of macroeconomic trends, particularly regarding resources
available to Government, public expenditures and savings, and microeconomic
factors such as the estimation of production coefficients. The MINEP Direc-
torate of Planning is thus seeking to strengthen the mechanisms available
to the Department to program and monitor the use of domestic and external
resources. In coordination with personnel and staff training being provided
by a UNDP-financed project, the project would finance four studies in the
Directorate of Planning which would help to set up an improved monitoring
system for the Fifth Plan, a planning data bank, a simulation model for the
economy and better recurrent cost budgeting procedures. Parallel to this, it
would support the work program of MINEP-s Statistical Department by financing
the consultants and equipment to carry out industrial and household budget
consumption surveys in order to generate a broader statistical base. The
proposed project includes a tentative allocation of 80 months of consulting
services to support these efforts.
36.       External Debt Management. An external debt mission in May 1979 drew
attention to the need to (a) improve debt reporting by public enterprises to
the Government and by the Government to the Bank; and (b) exercise vigilance
in order to ensure that the assumption of new debt does not impose an excessive
future debt service burden oni the Cameroonian economy. Responsibility for
external debt management at that time was divided between the Ministry of
Finance (MINFI), which made Government debt service payments, and MINEP, which
prepared investment programs and followed trends in central Government debt
commitments. The Government has since decided to consolidate these functions
under one unit in MINFI and has requested the Bank's help to organize its
operations. The project would finance about 36 months of consulting services
aimed to establish a system t:o provide regular information on all individual
external public debt obligations, analyze its overall structure and implica-
tions for Cameroon's debt capacity, and to train Cameroonian staff in MINFI
to properly operate it.
37.       Agriculture.  As outlined in paragraphs 26-27, the First Technical
Assistance Project helped the Directorate of Studies and Projects (DEP) of
MINAGRI to establish the basis for evolving a national agricultural strategy,
operational policies and to prepare sound development projects. In order to



- 13 -
fulfill its role during the Fifth Plan in policymaking and in project prepara-
tion, supervision and evaluation, the DEP requires further institutional and
organizational refinements and the recruitment and retention of more qualified
staff. It will in addition be important to strengthen the functions of the
following MINAGRI operational directorates other than the DEP to improve
project implementation: Agriculture, Cooperative Development, Rural Works,
and Agricultural Training.
38.       To further these objectives, the project would continue t:o support
the DEP, though the orientation of the Association-s assistance would shift
to: (i) increased training and improved conditions of employment for local
staff; and (ii) accelerated transfer from reliance on expatriate resident
specialists to qualified local staff. In support of these objectives the DEP
would establish three divisions with responsibility for: strategic sectoral
policy matters; commodity services and studies (pricing, marketing, etc.); and
project preparation, supervision and evaluation.
39.       The services of the three resident specialists financed under the
First Technical Assistance Project would be extended for two years and a
project planning specialist would be recruited to work for two years in an
advisory capacity within specific divisions of the DEP. The number of quali-
fied Cameroonian officers would be increased from 12 to 20. In an effort to
reduce turnover, their career prospects would be expanded particularly by
upgrading key posts in the new divisional organization, and improving their
terms of service. Sufficient local operating funds would be provided to
facilitate increased field activities by DEP staff and those related to other
project components.
40.       The foundations for improving training within MINAGRI were estab-
lished under the First Technical Assistance Project with DEP staff. With the
aim of developing project preparation and supervision capabilitieis, a series
of four 3-week seminars were initiated in 1980 under the guidance of the Pan
African Institute for Development (PAID). Subject to the satisfactory comple-
tion of this first series by year-end 1981, this program would be continued
under the proposed project and expanded to provide training in organization
and management for managers of agricultural/rural development projects.
41.       About 84 months of consulting services would be included in the
project to augment the DEP's capacity to undertake agricultural policy analyses
and project work. In all cases the DEP would be responsible for project
identification, the preparation of terms of reference, and coordination and
supervision of preparatory studies. A DEP staff member would be assigned
to each consultancy study to ensure coordination and continuity as well
as to gain additional on-the-job training. It is anticipated that part
of project funds reserved for activities to be later identified would be
devoted to studying the needs for and subsequent implementation of improved
operation of the other MINAGRI directorates.



_ 14 -
42.        lnduo.t:rv.  President Ahidjo stressed in his February 1980 economic
policy stateme-nt th2 priority to be given in the Fifth Plan to regionally
balanced industrial development.  Export-oriented, agro- and light industry
are to receive special attention, both as a means of promoting local pro-
cessing off aw i.oaterials and as part of an employment generation strategy
to absorb t.heg roing number of educated Cameroonians and reduce urban unem-
ployment.  iA recent Bank industrial sector report supports this approach and
in particular urges that the Government's institutional structure be better
equipped to sha,pe poicies and investment programs towards these ends.
43.       T'he DTb       ec -orate of Industry (DI) in MINEP is responsible for
industrial  o.c7  promotlon and regulation.  Faced with the need to revise
its policy frameo-iorlk and limlited experience in doing so, DI has requested
IDA's assistanc-3  Under the proposed project, a resident senior policy
advisor would work with the Director and his staff for three years.  Twenty-
four months of consu'.ting services would also be provided to assist with
sectoral analsyses, focusing principally on the definition of new tariffs and
incentive levels; a study of quantitative restrictions vs. tariffs; revision
of price control systems; and subsector studies in areas such as textiles,
wood products  aluminium smelting and agro-industry.
44.       Support- ruould also be provided at a more decentralized level to the
Societe National.e d' Investissement (SNI), a Government-owned equity holding
company, to increase Cameroon s capacity to generate industrial projects.
SNI has organized a new Department of Studies for this purpose. The project
would finance the services of an agricultural engineer and an industrial
engineer `or two years each in this unit and 24 months of consulting services
for project preparation. It is envisaged that the latter would be devoted to
pre-investment work for ventures in areas such as textiles, sugar refining,
timber and  uriniture production, cement and bricks.  Separate training pro-
grams now being designed for staff in DI and SNI would supplement the work of
these resident specialists to accelerate the acquisition of competence by such
staff in these areas. These efforts would complement those undertaken under
the First and recently approved Second SME projects to support industrial
development in Cameroon.
45.       Energy.  Cameroon Jis well endowed with hydrocarbon, hydropower
and renewable erergy resources.  Prospects for continued increases in the
production of oil and gas are also bright. Thus, efficient utilization and
development of the country's energy resources is an important priority area.
Recent Bank sector work has underscored the need for the formulation of
rational energy policies, a review of energy options, and a strengthening of
the cou'ntry-s institutional capacity to address the increasingly complex
issues in the energy sector. In addition, the continued growth in oil and
gas production  ill require that the Government expand its capacity to
monitor developments, negotiate with existing and new concessionaires, and
manage its participation in partnerships with foreign companies in complex,
anld in some cases expensive investment decisions. Treatment of energy
issuies in Cameroon is at present fragmented among a number of institutions,
and the Government will need to review institutional arrangements in the



- 15 -
sector in order to strengthen planning and policymaking. Training of techni-
cians and managerial specialists will also be required. To assist the
Minister of Energy and Mines in organizing available and new information and
monitoring sector developments effectively, the proposed project would
include the services of a resident energy adviser for three years. Thirty-six
months of consulting services would also be provided to undertake studies on
present and projected energy supply and demand, energy pricing issues, and to
design an information system to coordinate energy research in Cameroon. Funds
would be also available in the unallocated category, should additional spe-
cialized studies be warranted.
46.       Social Development.  Past experience shows that a clear understand-
ing of social sector issues and priorities is required if a number of Cameroon-s
development objectives--like increased agricultural productivity, increased
literacy and vocational skills, reduced infant mortality and universal access
to clean water supplies--are to be attained. The Ministry of Social Affairs
(MINAS) has traditionally administered social welfare programs for groups such
as the handicapped and indigent as well as social centers for both rural and
urban areas. The latter are designed to provide a wide range of educational,
health care and cultural services, including those for women-s se:Lf-improvement
in literacy, family counseling, job skills and consumer affairs. The Minis-
try's experience and the economic significance of these services, particularly
as they relate to women-s productive roles in domestic and agricultural
work, have taken on increasing importance. The Government has therefore
mandated the Ministry not only to enlarge programs for which it is responsible
but to work with other ministries in evaluating the socio-economic implications
of proposed investment programs and projects in other sectors of the economy.
47.       As the Ministry presently lacks the information and analytical
skills to carry out this role, the Minister has requested that assistance be
provided to help establish a sustained capacity to: (a) prepare and execute
studies on the social impact of policies, investment programs and projects in
the principal sectors of the economy; and (b) improve the generation and
supervision of investment projects under the Ministry-s direct responsibility.
The proposed project would finance the services of a resident socio-economist
and statistician/demographer, each for three years, and include 36 months of
consulting services for analyses in these areas. Disbursement by the Associa-
tion for this project component would be subject to Government's having
formally established a planning and studies unit in the Ministry (para. 3(b)
of Schedule 1 to the draft Development Credit Agreement).
48.       Additional Activities.  About one-fifth of total Credit funds would
be reserved at the outset to finance activities subsequently identified in the
above components or which otherwise serve project objectives, including
possible studies for ex post evaluation and the promotion of local consultant
services. Programming of such funds would be administered by the project
coordinator in consultation with the Association under specific procedures.
All such activities would, like other project work, be subject to prior
approval by the Association based upon detailed documentation (para. 51).



- 16 -
Project Organization and Execution
49.       Overall responsibility for project management and liaison with the
Association would reside, as in the First Technical Assistance Project, with
the Secretary General of MINEP. Under his general direction, the same Project
Coordinator as under the First Project would be responsible for day-to-day
operations. He would thereby build upon earlier project management experience
in performing those tasks which are required to ensure proper administration
of project funds and expeditious project implementation (Section 3.02(a) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). The design, implementation and
progress reporting for activities under each project component would be the
responsibility of the department director concerned.
50.       The Association would assist with the recruitment of the seven new
resident specialists envisaged for the proposed project. Candidates selected
on the basis of their curriculum vitae would, as appropriate, visit Cameroon
for interviews prior to recruitment and the associated cost be financed by the
First Technical Assistance Project. Their contracts would include allowances
for housing and local travel, payments for which have been subject to delays
under the first project. IDA's approval of contracts for resident specialist
assignments and training programs would be subject to Government having made
available the required Cameroonian professional and support personnel and
related office facilities (Section 3.04 of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). Vehicles and office equipment for each component would be procured by
the Government and placed under the official responsible for the component for
use as required.
51.       The identification, preparation and supervision of all studies and
training programs would be carried out with the assistance of resident special-
ists financed under the proposed project and the Association as required. They
would be subject to prior approval by the Association based upon supporting
documentation which would include a detailed justification, plan of execution,
and supporting services to be provided (Section 3.04 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
52.       Government would make provisions in its annual budget for funds
sufficient to support the project-s Cameroonian staff and local operating
costs for each component of the project (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
53.       The Coordinator would ensure that semi-annual progress reports be
prepared for each project component and he would call a meeting at least semi-
annually of those responsible for each project component and other senior
government staff. Such meetings would review the status of project activities
and would consider the results of each project component, keeping account of
the investments made, staff newly trained, policies developed and institutional
changes produced (Section 3.02(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 17 -
Project Costs and Financing
54.       The project would include the provision of 24 staff-years of expa-
triate resident specialists, 320 months of short-term consulting services,
10 vehicles and related office equipment, local staff and operating costs.
Its total cost exempt of taxes and duties is estimated at US$13.7 million
equivalent. Physical and price contingencies would constitute 24 percent of
total base costs. The proposed IDA credit of SDRs 8.2 million (US$10 million
equivalent) would cover the project's foreign cost component, which accounts
for 73 percent of total costs; Government would meet the remaining costs of
US$3.8 million equivalent. Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been
provided for vehicles, equipment and operating costs. Price contingencies on
resident specialists, short-term consultants, vehicles and equipment, local
operating and staff costs amount to 11 percent per annum in 1981/82 and 10
percent in 1983/84 for local costs; 9 percent in 1981, 8 percent in 1982, and
7 percent in 1983/84 for foreign costs. Average base costs for resident
specialists, including salaries, housing and other allowances, are estimated
at US$10,000 per month. The average cost of short-term consulting services is
estimated at US$14,000 per month, including fees, international travel and
subsistence. The Government has agreed that these costs are realistic in
relation to those prevailing locally for expatriates having similar high
qualifications as those required for the project. The Government and Associa-
tion are determined, however, to make pointed efforts to reduce these costs
inter alia by contacting a wider range of consultants and by employing,
whenever possible, qualified individual expatriate and local consulting
services.
Procurement and Disbursement
55.       The selection of resident specialists and short-term consultants
would be the responsibility of each Government ministry executing a project
component. All terms of reference, qualifications and contracts for their
services would be subject to prior approval by the Association (Sections 3.03
and 3.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). While most short-term
assignments would demand recruitment of expatriate consultants, the credit
would finance qualified local consultant services, working either indepen-
dently or in collaboration with foreign enterprises. Vehicles alnd equipment
totalling US$0.6 million would be procured through local competiltive bidding
following local advertising procedures acceptable to the Association (Section
2.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
56.       The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed against 100 percent of
total resident specialist costs and vehicles and equipment and, 70 percent for
short-term consultants. Disbursements would be fully documented. The Govern-
ment's contribution of US$3.8 million equivalent would finance the remaining
share of costs for short-term consultants, vehicles and equipment and the
total cost of local staff and operating costs.



- 18 -
Accounts and Auditing
57.       The Programming Department of MINEP would establish and maintain
consolidated project accounts for all of the proposed project's expenditures,
as it has for the First Technical Assistance Project. These accounts and
supporting records would be audited annually by auditors acceptable to the
Association and audit reports would be submitted promptly to the Association
(Section 4.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
58.       The project has been designed as a tool to help the Government
increase the volume of sound investments on appropriate financing terms meet-
ing its development objectives and to strengthen the skills and experience of
Cameroonian staff needed to undertake this work on a sustained basis. Three
principal risks are associated with achieving project objectives. Delays may
arise as in the First Project in providing qualified expatriate resident
specialists as anticipated; similarly, difficulties may be experienced in
recruiting and retaining trained Cameroonian personnel. These risks are
addressed in the project by proposing to recruit expatriates with the Associa-
tion-s assistance following negotiations and ensuring that they would not be
recruited without the prior availability of required Cameroonian staff and
facilities. With the shortage of qualified Cameroonian staff and significant
opportunities for them espec:ially in the commercial sector, their retention
will continue to be a difficult problem for some time to come. The Associa-
tion would continue to urge the Government to consider, where appropriate,
measures such as the upgrading of key posts as has been done in the DEP of
MINAGRI and improving career development prospects to minimize staff turnover.
An additional risk, however, is that policy and program recommendations arising
from project work would not be fully reviewed and acted upon. The Association
would make special efforts also in this regard to regularly account for and
review directly with all those authorities concerned the results of feasibility
studies and recommendations pertaining to sector policies and programs to
ensure their appropriate disposition (Section 3.06 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Cameroon and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
60.       Special conditions of the draft Development Credit Agreement
are listed in Section III of Annex III. A condition of credit disbursement
for the social development component, would be that the Government formally
establishes a planning and studies unit in the Ministry of Social Affairs
(para. 47).



- 19 -
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 4, 1981



- 20 -                                               ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6 pages
TABLE 3A
CARlEROON - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CAIEROON                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE.I5CPS
LwAND, ARIA (,:OUISAND SO. E1.)                                                       _    - MOST RECENT FSTI  _TF)-_-
T01)4I            475. 4
AC8C UCTURhA'     }56.6                                   MCOST RFCENT           MIDDLE  INCOME             11DDLE INCOMf
L960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHAPA  LAr'N AMERICA b CA8BIREAN
OSNPLO 77170ITA (USS)                   140.0        230.0      560.0/c               868.0                     956'.9
ENERGY . 'NSI_FTION PER CAPITA
(ETl 'CPAN1S O)F  OA5. EQUIVALENT)     55.0         91. 0     119.0                 699.4                     1055. 0
PORULAT1DN ANT VITAL STATISTICS
PCPULATIOK, MID-YEAR IMILLIONS)         5. 7         6.8        8.1
URPAN PIPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 13.9           20. 3      31.6                   28.9                      r3.6 
PU?i'TAIION PROJECTTONS
OPU'LATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           13.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                             31.0
YFAR. STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2135
POPU1.AI'ON DENSI0TY
IH8 h SC. KM.                        12.0         14.0       17.0                  61. 7                      28. 1
PLEP S0. KM. AGRICULTURAL IAND       36. 0        44.0       52.0                 126.0                        1,' 7
POPULAfION ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            40.7         41.3       41.3                  45.5                       41.4
153-4 YRS.                            57.0         55. 7      54.6                   51. 6                     54.7
65 YRES. ANL ABOVE                     2.3          3.0        4.1                    2.8                       3.'
POPUlATION CROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 1. 4         1.8        2.2                    2. 7                      2. 7
ERBAN                                  ..          5.6        8. 0                   4. °                      4. 1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        43.0         42.0       42.0                   46.8                      34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PFR THOUSAND)        27.0         22.0       19.0                   16.                        8. 9
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2. 3/d       2. 7       2.8                    3.2                       2.5
FAMII EPLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..           ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARPIED WOMEN)    ..              ..
FOOD ANDI NUTRIT10N
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-I00)            89.0         101.0     112.0                   94.0                     106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY O.
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     80.0         89.0       89. 0                  92.7                     107.1
pROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             43.0         51.0       51.0                  53.0                       65.6
SF 9HICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         11.0         13.0       15.0                   15.6                      33.7
CH11D (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        40.0         32.0       27. 0                  21. 3                        4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.0            42.0       46.0                   50. 1                     63. 1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             167.0/e         ..         ..                     ..                      66.5
ACCTSS TO SAFF WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATItON)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..        26.0                   31.0                      65.9
URBAN                                  ..           ..       35.0                   66.8                      80. 4
RURAL                                  ..           ..       22.0                    ..                       44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAI                                  ..           ..         ..                    ..                       62. 3
URBAN                                  ..           ..        ..                     ..                       79.4
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                    ..                       29. 6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            40192.0/f   30138.0   16509.0                  14508.2                    1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       6151.0/f    2870.0    2229.0                   3279.0                    1277.S
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               524.0/f      563.0      3 70. 0              1141. 5                    480.3
URBAN                               329. 0/f     302.0
RURAL                               579. 0/f     722.0         ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..
HOUS INC
AVERACE SLZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..           ..        5.2
URBAN                                  ..           ..        5.1
RURAL                                  ..           ..        5.2
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN'                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DNWELLINCS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..        6.7
URBAN                                   .           ..       22.6
RURAL                                 ,,.           .5. 05



- 21 -                                              ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6 pages
TABLE 3A
CAMEROON - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CAMEROON                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE1.AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  65.0        107.0     119.0                   61. 7                    99. 7
MALE                  87.0        124.0      132.0                  69. 2                    101.0
FEMALE                43.0         91.0     106.0                   51.4                      99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   2.0          9.0      17.0                   20.6                     34.4
MALE                   4.0         13.0       23.0                  29.2                      33.5
F£MALE                 1.0          5.0       11.0                  14.7                      34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  23.0           23.0      23.0                    7.0                     38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               ..        48.0       51.0                   36.6                     30.5
SECONDARY                             ..         24.0      23.0                   24.3                     14. 5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         19.0         12.0         ..                    ..                      76..3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0          6.0       7.7                   38.8                     43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.7        36.0       96.0                   83.5                    245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER rHOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          ..         ..                     ..                     84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    2.0          3.0       3.9                   24.2                     63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1             ..        1. 0                  0. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       2907.0       3299.2    3662.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      ..          ..       41. 0                  38. 1                    22. 2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               87.0         85."0     82.0                   54.3                     317.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   5.0          6.0        7.0                  17.8                     23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 39.3         37.8      35. 7                  38.8                     31.5
MALE                                    ..           ..      45.6                   48.4                     48. 9
FEMALE                                  ..          ..       26.9                   29.4                     14. 0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8          0. 9       1.0                   1.3                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIV.ATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US) PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      238.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      105.0                     ..                    l90.8
ESTLMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                    ..                    474.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                     ..                    332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       15. 0
RURAL                                 ..          ..       40.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
Lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
Lc   Fiscal year July-June;  Id West Cameroon only;  /e 1960-65;  /f 1962, including ex-South Cameroon
under British administration.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 22 -                                                                  ANNX I
Page 3 of 6 pages
DEFINITION OF SOCIAL INDICAT0RS
Ntense Although the data ate dreo free source. gene.rally Judged the most authoritative and reliable, it should also he noted that they say cot be inter-
nationlly comparable be-soa  of the lack of staderdleed  dO           .i.nsad concpts aed by differect ...antries In collecting the data.  The detente, cone-
theles.s,. usful te describe urders of  agnitade, indicate treds, end oh-reteci-o cetain  oj-r ditffer-ne  hete,ee o-onrie..
.he .referenc   gops arc (IS tho s      coun try group of the ajetcentry and (2) a conty gronp etch s-mbaotinhig-r. avrege iccem   oha  the country groap
othefeubjec_t ce_tty (_eapt fur  Caputa  Nurp.u  Oil Eaportert" group  be_  "Middle Incm   North Atfruc  aud tiddle tact" is obose.e becanse of sto..nger
socicoultoel afloitca).In the referenOc gOup data the ctrages are popalatio weigh ted arithmei  maca for each indicator cod abo    ay whe  at
lees  hal  of  hecootris te   grop has data for chatBIdca       _. tn   to.  _.ovrage of co-uri-o tneg the todi_atoo  depuds on the  _ei glablthy af.
dat  an  rsotaiforn,  -atn    at be enercised in    ato   avrages of etc iodicater to another.  Th.esoaeae  arc only usetul in conparlg bc  eu
of Ic idit tcasstime amon  lbhe coutry and  referenc
LANT ASEA (thousand sq.ke.)                                                                         P       -tute   e  Phtsii-ittt dpulatiotdI fivue     by co - or 0  pra-nucin  phy-
T.tal - Total surf sueatt t:      pioo.ln,re   ndilmdncee                                        iciens qualf ledifrom    mediIca  ehoul at_uiverity level
eAgro-1turnl - Estimat  of agrictirlarau1              temporaril rperesnetl                PeuIai_n per urigPersan - Population divided bynubro  pat-tiufg
rot c-pe, pastures, sachet and kitehec gacde   c- no lie fallen; 1977 dune,                 male und femal  graduate nurses, prnoti-1   rs,  n I_ait_ntate
- G p-  -p1l.   at  --bt -.1-Penltin  cr SecialBed-tni   ra.sdmci-Ppltc    ttl
15fFP110 CAPITA (tUl)1    N ctPernrt   ulao    totn nce  prIce, -al-                            arba, and rural) divided by their r_seeive nmbas of bepital beds
naedby sae      --vei-n  etbod an Wurld Sank Atlas (1977-79 bathe); 1960,                avilable in public und priesegnrlad speciaisd hospital sadre
1970, and  1979 data.                                                                         hbltte   et.             BHptals are etbliset  pems tly etaff ad
by at least one pbysiclan    Estsblihbmetc  pro-iding pcieripally ussadia1
ENERGY CONOSUMPTION PEN CAPITA - Aa-..I -onaupti- of  n                 bmrtalecry (col           at  aen not inclded.  Rural hetplitl hwee,   inclde health sad medi-I
sad lignite  petroelnu, ntural gas and hydro-, clnrud goothe_ml cler-                         ceirentpeemanetly stffed by a physiciso  (bat by A medical sasisat,
teilt)  A  iogum   o  ca  eqavaen  pr.apita; 1960. 1970, eod 1978                             nurse,   idnif, etc.) which offer ic-patient sc-endstien  ad pr-vids     
data.                                                                                         limited rasge of medical facilities.   For statistical purpse  urban hapi-
tale include WO.N pvisuipal genra  and spetisised bspltmls, sd reve
FPOPLATION AND I TIAL NTATISTCTS                                                                      t ,.-           yep-M               d-i.1- -t iy' tr.
TotalFouaa. Hi-erA.ttu)-u  of Jety 1; 1960, 1970, uod 19708                                    aalu  per NosPIca  N ed - Intel cabe- of admissons to o  disoh.rees
data;plt.                         1-Rt,f_t .                                                frun hospitale divided by the camber of beds.
UrbanPp.     tic(tcIta   oal       aloo.rant  oe  populatiou;
different deficition   of orI   o  rsssy ato          eprhlt   fdtOIJSING
among co-tries;l1.960. 1970, and 1978 duat.                                                Averses  int  f itousebold (persn  per  bu bld)-ltotal  ura,                     .I ma-
osatoPe)eticavs                                                                      Ahnboldcooist  ofagroup of indviuas"ho shar  llivig quarters
Pouainit year 21000 - Torrent populutlon prnjccttoou a1re h..nd on 1950               -Id t     bormain sea.. ItAhore  trldgrmy or may nut ho included is
tonal  puplunton. by age and se  end their sorualit  and fertility rates.                 the househld toe otatIst lputpu.
Projecion paameter  for mrsaliy ra es conpriun of cAres. levels a--           vtA_ eomrto `        rnn    =cr noon - total,  than,- and ruti-  vrgetj
tog  1lf enpecany t;    trtb -:ltuceaig oucih counry's Pr -aplta incene                   hoc ofpeoonpr roan 0: aill urban1a d  rua  occu..PIed . c _vet isal
levl, acd St,.ea  life  spect-ny atabijining at 77.1 y--cs   The Para-                    deellinus  reePeoceel.         elliugs..  lod.n..    peonesamtnatures and
meters forfetliity race alto have turee levela  -tuuin; declion in                        toucpe   pane.         Iy
tetlc    coding to i-=er level aed pn  tayple-ing porf-ane.                    Accent it Tret-iity (pru-et ni dunlllus)-tut. bem. and reve  -
E-oh coun try i  then asiguod one of three niut c-bioattnnn. of nortuity                  Ccovettl..tI d-elliugn  ithO eletricity in, living  qc.rierm  as percetatge
med fet ility trends tar projection purposes..                                            of taco1,  rbon, nod rmini d-licgn rcapcctiv-ly.
Stationar papuletiun - In a snetio..acy papulatioI thec i tno growth since
the birch rate is equal to the death rate, scd  1als  the age utruoturere-           EDUCATION
san    ests.T isi  achievd ugly after fertilitp  rsteg decline tO                   Adlusted Errolleut Ratios
-tbe replacemet leve  of uit ntcrepruduoni_ rate ,  hbo  math ge...cation                  Fristyr school - tetul, male and xfemle-Dross  ntal., sale and femal
oftw.-c  replaces iced5f =uatip   The etatio..svy populaihun siewecrlno   f aI agre at the primay1lve  am pttantagea of ranpeceirt
.. umacd en tIe basis of the projec.ted ehur-terioti-s of the pPu. sin                      priniary -eh-l-age popultine  uraly  n-1udnacidrsaed61
im the yar 701, avd che ratee  unIIIs  If fe-tuity voetI rp  ce                              rubtudoc ttot diffrn   sfh    fpIayensis   o
aneacorypoculucluu tu renhed - The year uh.c utatio..ry populetino                    ti-c  scr  papilo ere belen or ahuve thc offi.i.1 sbmel age.
siehsb eneahed                                                                    Secondary ocheol - total, mal  and f-1ul  - Compued as. abae; secon dary
Poonlatlan Denit-yeandpucetioPrn rekiquIres00  .tr.ato least four pears of epProved pImary  -tutr-tiom;
Penten  brea. - fdya   euainptcur   ione   10b ue                                             roide  gree, vocatIonal , or nt-her training instrrti... f or papib.
total urea,                                                        usuall~~~~~~~~~~y of 12 tc 17 years of age;   --rp-nd ..enecussare ge...rally
Per en.h. ariulurlad - TCmpurd us shov  for agricultural landocld.
Populutine Age,turucture (prerout  - Cbldreu. (0-luyan,oubc-c   (11-                             icld   ehia,idsril   rohrpnrn   hich operate ind.pan-
64yers),; eu6d  ree1h9         pesno   ve  00prscgso   i-erpopu-                              deotly on us deperteents of e-oodarytutuins
harlan; 191, 1971,  nd 1978 dta.                                 Pupulnecober rtio - Prisuty,auod  econer  - Total utudeuts enrolle  In
Peac,ti popultic        Sr 690-h, 1960-70, and 1970-75.                                         cor1-1peddiid.merleI
Popula nisGrowth hate (percet) -urban -Afool growth rates of orban Pop-                       Adult literu-p rate (ercrcet) - Literate  oduls(be  oraIadoie
inin 'o 910-60, 1960-70, med1970-78.                                                    ucpercetage of total adu1t poPulatioc aged 15 y-ear  end avr.
Crude Ninth Sate Syar thrsd) - Annua  live bithu pen thruand of And-peat
popnlatieo; 1960, 1970, end 1979 faace.CONSUMPTIONS
Crude Death Beat  (per thounnd)_-Acua  dathn Per thousand of mid-year                       Pasege  Cts(pr thosnrnuain   -.asneror   oPrsmor
papulatieg; 1960, 1970, end 1978  aa                                                         assacc   otvn  eih  pros;noudsabua....a, heerasesd
Crags Nepr-d-tnbu  Sate-Average  -uhrriduh- ena Iunma  wIl  ber10                              military vehicles
ciluty rates; usull  fiveyu    sac   edgit1960, 1970, aud 1977.                             brood-atncu ge~orulpbi   e  baudo  poplto;ecue.nt
Pail0 Plaeniuo- Accetaro, deualI (stuucdn) - Ooa-l eunhrIof -cep-t.r. cend  rcienic counries cud ie peers ohen rgietaetiau of radio sew
of hlrth-oturol devcnmdc   opor   fcnuu uily;"Dgoutg program                                na  t ffect; datc for recen.t yrurs may eon            oparable sise meet
Family Plauitg - lucrenrcu  ofmarried co..n) - Occeeta :f ma rried                             cotrublucdicntg
unman of  bild-heaing uge  15-A4yas4  scuehrs-oco devth.s-tobi                       tucrieu..     r b cihoucceli- pi.stin.       ttel sfrbudstt
almridcocinsmage frOOP.                                                                geecrul pu.blic yer thonun.d pupulutin_ nldsulcaedT   eevr
FOOD ANO NLTRITION                                                    ,e.          ~~~~~~~~i  cunriacdtey  ear  when registration  of TPstswsiefct.
Indee of Fund ftmd-ti-u Pet Calita (1969-71-ICC) -  hn.op'ceaiuatul                            ca    Ci"dily gl uerol intereto,sae"                   edaaebdclpb
production, ofall food ocamditics.  Production enludra ce.d and feed eud                    lic-tton  devotd prisarily 1 to.r.ording genet.  sews..  It is coaidered
in I. ose la  year basSu.  Ou-adu le cte  primary goofs (e.g. aususe                        t  hr "daily" if it uppeee at least fou.rtimes ewe-k
insted of sugt  which are edible and -otain outriec-  (e.g. coftenet.d                    Cicen  Annua Actted-nc  ncr Capit  per Paeec-ease.d asthe u,wber of
tra nu-t    Aue)    ggurgate pnodue-iee of such ceontcy is bated  on                        tichkt  told duriof the year, tooldioN  admissions to driv--in cinan
naIna -vrage Produce.r peice weights; 1961-65, 1970, and 1978 data,                    and enhile  _Jio.
Pe cpta supply of  clrc   percent a   oermtu    CUputtd true
energy equIvalent of oat food  upplireaail  Icc tnty pee topiti                       L.ABOR FORCE
Per day. Avaioble supplies  -opriec domeeie prd-rtin, inporta lets                      Intu  Luhor forc(tosct-   -cui-11y aciepereocs. including
enPorte, cud changes In stock.  Net supplies encide u..i-aI feed, serda,                  ned force  uei:d 2umplayod but -nluding houseives, students, etc.
q_gtities used in fuod process ing, and Ilossec it distributiIo.  Rnqaire--               Inittc inarosucritreatomrbl;16,97sd
cetsccse timtd by Ff0I based on physiolaglonl o-ds for norma  otil-                19Sf data.
ci ty anheLTth co_ildrim  enriroeutal taemperatur, body unights, age                    feae  crcI)     ol  labor f.... us percetag  of tura1 labor fort.
aud man distribution of popaation, med al1esiog 1C Percent  for caste at                 ero-itue )Pr-rcn-   - Labor farce it farming,9fnrcstry, hunting and
hb....bhld level; 1961-61   90   c  197 7 data.                                           flbteg as p--trcgc of total labotfre  160, 1970 and 1978 dens.
Preeaeuey o   rue              P gam    c  day) - Prutoic oontett of Per .aPit    nuty(acn)-lhr0ou  i   iig   osrciu   auatrn
net nuPply of fond Per day.  Net supply of food is defined as abov.-   It-                and elctriity, egrt.  aed gas us p-ertrntg  of total labor focre; 1960,
quireets foe allcoutres  stblished by USDA pct-ide for m.iuu                              190cd178  aa
allewuce  f 61  rensof notal protein Per day and 20 gRams of animal and           rattitipetion nate  -rn tm       - tote.1   alt, and femle - Psrtitlpstiua o
Pulse Praoein, of whiob IS gram  should beaimal preri.  These staud-                      aunivity rates ate comutd asorual, male, sod.femle labor  eres
arsaelwrtAc  those of 75 gram  of total pr.ttri  and 23 gra         f             pecnae   f tcoal, saece           1eml  populetiu  of Al sage  rep iv_ly;
anislprote.in as an  vege for the -'Id,  prnpo.ed by PAlOn  h  Third                      1960, 19701  and 1971 Outs.  Th. carts ILl's  p-rticipatim  estee rsfleotigg
World Fn ac;1961-65, 1970 and 1977 dpat.                                                    g--ttr   ft.I.   .gt.    r..Af     .i
pe..   istoei    ueyfo    nia  o   us   P.rotin  .Fl  of foo cd-                            aesnsroueo   h    ouain   n   agtn   re.Afns
_______ _______ _______ ___"__ _ i___ _ __ _ _ _            up l        oo               n   r   re f e   ar  tios l n u u s
riend from   nmle     n   ussi  grPm prdy; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 data.   Ecoomi arefrneo  Ratio -  atl   ofpoutunuder 15 und 61 and ovr
ChIld (ags.  1-4) ncrtI.ity R.It.ateln  teeel- eno-I deaths por thnuasad In                    tote  oa  leutfac .  t.o   ...i
age gemep 1-4 yesrs. te obildean in tbis age group; I- orms  developing cram-ta    b.   .re
tries dana derived fran life tables; 1960, 1970 sud 1977 dat.. fIuTIME DISTRIBUTION
Peroestags of Private Incm   (both Iu Cash and bidk        - R-cived by riebren
Lif,              -Ag. .-b.r of y-ra of life r-i.ig                    5f~Ipercant, richest 2T percent, posrest 7  peun,ad pnrest 00 psrest
lie Iaetau  at Bith(ynr) - Aveaemmero   ar  o   ierinn-gb.~hod.
an bith; 160, 1971 anI979 dean.
Isfant Mortaliny Rate (-a  thrasnd) -Abnnua  deetbe of tofant,, under ... yt5t    FOVERTY TARGEOT GOUfPS
of age Per theu..ed Ive. birtha.                                                           Ssaee    hauePvryImm   ee   Ot   -  capita) - urban and macl-
Acats t  1sfs Wtar(Prertt of peculation) -  oa.ebas, -,d rural - N,                       Ab-nlote povrty icoma leve  to tht incmelee  below  hbioh A miufm
M..ber of peeple (tosa1, urban, end marsh) wt   esnbe  cest   ae                              urno l  aeute diet Plu  essetial ur-food requireate is nut
enter supply (includes tretdaeaeesestutatd ..rhut... _ectt-fmted                             of frdtublye.      q
water snob as sha thramr  prnon-td b.-orhle   springs, med  -anner  wells) a               EsiaffodabRelaiePvryIcm   ee   I)rttpt)-abnsdr.a
pratges of their respective papulatin.I   subnar        ulcSrlrelaIv   peve-rtty, ineelve-s-chr   faerg  pe  cpits
fananor standp-t located mt  mer  than 750 meter  from... ahouse say he                 personal innem  of tbs coutrY.  bitt- level Is deti-ed fnam the rena
uewsdsre  sebrin  wihin reasonable  tum  otht house.  In rural arena                                                         -tIlii.   l   b-
-esaheassuld isply thocthhosiforsmrsf the                        hoshold         lEve=lwIth..   ' Bi. adjusen-n  fAr hIrbt. otucto liin  in-rba e.rete          b
do not hav  no spend A disproportiona.te part of the day In feotbiug the                     cud rural - P-eret of ppulatian  (arbn and cura1) who are "ebsalsat Poor.
femily'swm.ter nasds.                                                                        ____
A-tres  to E-reta Diac...  (rran f coaat2                 -tna rt a.,I..aad
-nra  - Numberofppl  (ntl,obs , end rrl   evdb nit
dispsl sp erenagsfherees-tiv- populaniana.  Escreen die-                                                                    E   -uoel  and Social Date Division
Possi may in-lude abs ca11-tlun and dispus..l, with oc cithont anesamtne,                                              tocoomic Analysis n.       r)tim   Bs.psrmt-
of hima  enrena sa  meets-wter by weter-bens system   nr the as  nof-br18
pIt privies end siilar Isetelletitoas.



- 23-                                         ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6 pages
Population        8.3 million (mid-1979)
GNP Per Capita:  US$559 (1979)
CAMEROON - ECONOMIC INDICATORS /a
Amount                                   Annual Growth Rates (M)
Indicator                     (million US$ at                  Actual                            Projected
current prices)                                  99e98         191     98     183     98
1979          1975   1976   1977   1978   19       1980   1981   1982
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic products j              5,321         - 1.7    5.7    7.9    6.7    8.5    5.8    5.9    5.9    5.9    5.9
Agriculture                          1,720           1.2    1.3    1.3    4.7    6.o    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5
Industry                               891           3.0   13.2   14.8    2.8   10.0    7.9    8.0    8.0    8.0    8.0
Services                             2,710         - 5.0    5.1   10.4   10.4    9.6    6.o    6.o    6.0    6.o    6.o
Consumption                            4,260         - 1.8    7.6   11.7    5.4    8.7    4.6    4.6        .8    4.7    6.9
Gross investment                       1,203          17.5  - 5.2   29.3   26.2   14.1   12.8    5.3    5.5    5.5    5.8
Exports of GNFS                        1,237         -10.2   15.8  -15.1   10.1    2.5   25.4   11.7    8.2    6.7    3.5
Imports of GNFS                        1,483           4.1    3.0   14.6   16.8    7.7   25.4    6.6   -4.3    3.2    6.1
Gross national savings                   908            .8  -10.6  - 9.7   34.4  -  .3   59.9    5.4   28.0   16.6    5.7
PRICES
GD? deflator  (100    Average FY75-FY77)              90.8   99.1  110.4  121.7          -        -                  _ 
Exchange rate ($1 - )                                 222    225    248    239       217   210      -      -       _      _
Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)                  Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices) Lc                    (at constant 1975-77 prices)
1965   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990   1965-70  1970-7-  1975--80  1980-85  1985-90
Gross domestic product             100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   64.5         4.8       7.2      5.9       6.o
Agriculture                       35.2   36.4   35.3   30.1   28.2   26.3    5.3         3.9       3.7      4.5       4.5
Industry                          14.6   14.8   14.8   16.3   18.5   20.3    5.6         3.8       9.3      8.o       8.0
Services                          50.2   48.8   49.9   53.1   53.3   53.4    3.7         5.7       8.8      6.o       6.o
Consumption                         87.2   8o.5   84.9   83.2   79.4   83.3    4.3         3.4       7.3      4. 7      7.0
Gross investment                    13.4   17.0   21.5   27.4   26.8   26.2        .8      7.2      15.5      5.5       5.5
Exports GNFS                        25.4   28.7   24.3   25.5   26.1   22.2    4.8         3-0       4.7      6.4       2.5
Imports ONFS                        26.0   26.1   27.4   36.1   32.3   31.7    3.7          .8      12.8      3.0       5.6
C-ross national savings             11.1   19.2   14.6   14.8   19.4   15.5    9.9        10.8       -       11. 8      1.3
Terms of trade adjustment            -       -      -      6.6    7.8    6.6
As % of GDP
1961    1970   1975   19S8 i/
PUBLIC FINANCE
O-rrent revenues                                                 11.4    15.5   14.4   18.5
Current expenditures                                             11.9    12.9   12.2   12.0
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                       - .5     2.6    2.2    6.5
Capital expenditure                                                -      1.7    1.4    4.9
Foreign financing                                                n.a.    n.a.    -       1.5
1969-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                                 4.1        4.3       7.2        6.1        6.o
GNP per capita growth rate (%)                      2.3       2.2        4.7        3.5        3.6
Energy consumption growth rate (f)                  4.0        4.0      10.2        5.9        6.0
ICOR                                                3.9 9      4.8       3.2        4.5        4.4
Marginal savings rate                                .2 /       .4         .1        .5,        .1
Import elasticity                                    .8         .2       1.8         .5LI       .9
-p
a Fiscal year (July 1 - June 30) data.
i   At market prices including components.  Fiscal year (July 1 - June 30).
/c Projected years at constant prices.
/ For the period of 1965-1970.
/e Estimates.
/f   The decline in import elasticity in 1980-85 results from the projected substituition of import of refined
petroleum products by domestic prod ction from 1982 on.
February 1981



- 24 -                                      ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6 pages
Population       8.3 million (mid-1979)
GNP Per Capita:  US$559 (1979)
CAMEROON - EXiERNAL TRADE
Annual Urowth Rates t%-
Amount                           (at constant FY75-77 prices)
Indicator                  (million us$ at                 AculPrjce
current prices)                 Actual                              Projected
1979          1975   1976   1977   1978   1979Le  1980   1981   1982   1983    1984
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports                 1,092         -14.8   11.0  -12.2   11.3  - 1.7    33.1   13.0    8.7    6.9    2.9
Primary                           1,053         -14.5   10.7  -12.8   12.6  - 1.3    34.6   13.3    8.8    6.9    2.8
of which crude and
refined oil                       262           -       -      -      -    114.4    37.1   40.0    6.0   16.5    4.4
Manufactures                         38         -20.0   17.3    1.1  -13.5  -12.2       8.9    2.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Merchandise imports                 1,156          22.5  - 8.5   23.8   19.6   14.9    9.2    6.9   -5.8    3.0    6.3
Food                                 78         - 3.4    2.4   19.3    8.5  - 1.0    2.2    1.6   -0.1    1.6    2.6
Petroleum                           102          31.2  -23.7   46.6   22.6   12.0    12.2    9.2  -70.2  - 5.7    5.8
Machinery and equipment             363          52.3    3.0   21.0   33.2    4.1   11.8    5.1    5.3    5.3    5.7
Others                              613          13.9  - 8.5   24.0   12.8   19.1      8-3    8.1   -2.6    2.4    7.1
PRICES
ERxport price index/a                 149.6        16.3  - 5.3   63.5    6.4    6.o    23.5    7.7    6.7   12.2    9.5
Import price index-                   119.9        29.0    7.5   11.0    4.0    5.3    15.9  13.5    4.6    7.1    7.5
Terms of trade index                  124.8       - 9.8  -12.0   47.3    2.3      .7    6.6   -5.1    2.1    4.7    1.8
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)               Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current grices)                        (at constant 1975-77 prices)
2965   1970   1975   1930  1985   1990    1965-70  1970-75  1975-80 1980-d5  1985-90
Exports                           100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0      3.1      2.9       5.1     6.4       1.6
Primary                          98.6   96.4   96.o   97.2   97.5  96.9       2.4      2.8       5.4     6.5       1.h
Manufactures                      1.4    3.6    4.0    2.8    2.5   3.1    47.4        5.8      -3.0      4.5      6.1
Imports                           100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  1DO.0  100.0      3.3      1.4      14.1      2.7      5.7
Food                             12.4    9.5    8.7    7.1    6.6    5.7      3.2      -3.3     16.3      1.6      2.7
Petroleum                         4.7    4.5    9.3    7.9    2.6    2.6    15.4       6.3      14.8   -21.2        6. 3
Machinery and equipment          20.4   26.7   25.6   26.4   28.9   28.4    -6.o      -1.7      15.7     5.3       5.4
Others                           62.5   59.3   56.4   58.6   61.8   63.3      6.2      2.8      12.6      3.8      6.2
Share of Trade with         Share of Trade with          Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (%)    Developing Countries W       Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (%)
1960     1970       1975    19C       1970       1975       1960       1970      1975
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                          93       91         73        6        7         19          0          0         0
Primary                       97        95         77        1        2          1          0          0         0
Manufactures                   23       11         23       77       89         77          0          0         0
Imports
/a The reduced growth rate for import prices from 1982 on reflects the substitution by domestic production of
refined petroleum products previously imported.
/b Estimates.
February 1981



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6 pages
Population: 8.3 million (mid-1979)
GNP Per Capita:  US$559 (1979)
CAMEROON - BALANCE OF PAYME1T, EXTERMAL OAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions US$ at current prices)
Indicator                                                        Actual                                           Projected
197L  1975   1976   1977   1978   19797/h/ 1980   1981   1982    1983   1984   1986   1990
BALANCE OF PAYNENTS    / c
Exports of good and services                   310    640    715    835  1,226  1,335    1,929  2,323  2,698  3 222  3,662  4,
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.                 232    511    553    687    994  1,092    1,564  1,904  2,209  2, (48  2,982  3             r914    o2
Of which: crude oil and petroleum
products                            -       -      -       2      3    262       534    919  1,074  1, :85  1.591  1.647  2,201
Imports of good and services                   409    793    867    966  1,307  1,714    2,350  2,814  2,885  3,190  3,611  4,628  7,311
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.                 265    534    559    676    899  1,156    1.802  2,188  2.155  2.378  2,719  3,543  5,654
Of which: crude oil and petroleum
products                           23      41     53      68     93    134        173    251      84     88    103    124    276
Net transfers                                   18      32     56     54      35      24       62      68      69     80      81     80      91
Current account balance                        -80   -121    -96    -77    -49   -296        -358    422    -117    112    133   -186   -870
Private direct investment                       10     24      25      6      17      54       65      741    85      98    113    149    261
MLT Loans (net)                                 40     59    140    237    273    353         243    463    289    201    198    322    470
Official                                      30     37      68    104    159    229        181    247    277    287    287    350    442
Private                                       10     22      72    132    3.1    124         62    216      11    -85    -89    -27       28
Other capital                                   15      8    -82   +176   -193   -159         -16    -16       -4     -2      0       0       0
Change in reserve                               46     46      12     12    -54       48       68    -97   -251   -408   -443   -284    139
International reserves                         175    112    10C      88    139       91       24    121   373       782   1225   1925   2228
of which:  Gold                               -      -       --      1       3      6
Reserves as months imports                       5_1    1.7    1.4    1.1    1.3        .8        *Ld4o.5   1.6      2.9    4.1    5.0    3.7
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /L
Gross disbursements
Official grants                               10     20      24     23      11      18
Concessional loans                            31     45      55    122    130    185
DAC                                         13     12      32     4t      53     98
OPEC                                        -       6       3     13       6     20
IDA                                         6      16      18     21      19     20
Other                                       12      6       2     48      52     47
Non-concessional loans                         40     83    123    194    187    321
Cfficial export credits                     13      1       9     19      12     75
IBRD                                         3     22       8     15      37     30
Other multilateral                           4      4       1      3      21     10
Private                                    20      56    105    157    117    206
External Debt
Debt outst-adtng and
disbursed                                     236    372    515    837  1,157  1,634
Official                                    195    293    346    507    709    996
Private                                      41     79    169    330    448    638
Undisbursed debt                                194    351    486    54o    769    989
Debt service
Total service payments                         15     36      39     52    1D3    126
Interest:                                     6     15      19     28      43     64
Payments as 3% exports                          4.9    5.6    5.5    6.2    8.4    9.4
Average interest rate on new loans (8)            5.9    5.0    4.5    6.3    5.6    9.0
Official                                      3.6    2.5    3.9    4.7    4.4    6.4
Private                                       8.9    9.2    7.6    V.3  -10.2   12.5
Average maturity of new loans (years)            15.n   21.3   25.3   17.2   17.6   16.6
Olfficial                                    30.3  3s.O   24.8   21.2   28.5   20.0
Private                                      12.7   10.0    9.2    6.8   11.4   10.5
As 8% of Debt Outstanding
at End of Most Recent
Year (1979)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                  47.0
Maturities due within 10 years                                                101.1
Interest structure of fi.bt outstanding
Interest due within ftrst year                                                  6.6
i Fiscal year (July 1 - June 30) for Balance of Payments and calendar year for External Cspital and Debt.
b/ Estimates.
{c A discussion of the ibapact of oil on the balance of payments is contained in the Energy Sector Review,
Id The projected deterioration in the current account balance in 1980-81 reflects conservative assumptions. Actual data indicate
reserves of approximately 1.5 months at end 1980 (calendar year).
February 1981



- 26 -                       ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1981)
Loan or                                                          US$ million
Credit                                                    Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year  Borrower    Purpose                       Bank    IDA/1  Undisbursed
Ten Credits and nine Loans have been fully                80.31   117.4         -
disbursed
320-CM    1972  Cameroon    Education II                             9.0       2.62
983-CM    1974  Cameroon    Livestock                     11.6                0.13
1039-CM   1974  Cameroon    Cocoa                          6.5                0.91
575-CM    1975  Cameroon    Small- and Medium-
Scale Enterprises                   3.0       0.57
1245-CM   1976  Cameroort    Education III                17.0               10.18
1321-CM   1976  NPAC          Second Douala Port          15.0                0.94
673-CM    1977  Cameroon    Technical Assistance                     4.5      2.35
723-CM    1977  Cameroon    Rural Development Fund                   7.0      4.29
1391T-CM  1977  Cameroon    Second SOCAPALM                7.0                2.34
1392-CM   1977  Cameroon    Second SOCAPALM               18.0                6.03
749-CM    1977  Cameroon    Feeder Roads                             6.5      2.73
1494-CM   1977  Cameroon    Feeder Roads                   4.6                4.60
1508-CM   1977  Cameroon    Second CAMDEV                 15.0                4.26
776-CM    1978  Cameroon    Zapi East Integrated
Agriculture                         8.5       4.59
784-CM    1978  Cameroon    Western Highlands
Rural Development                  13.0       9.41
1512-CM   1978  Cameroon    Second SEMRY Rice             14.5                4.74
1515-CM   1978  Cameroon    Third Highway                 16.5                0.70
926-CM    1979  Cameroon    Fourth Highway                          10.0       7.12
1723-CM   1979  Cameroon    Fourth Highway                38.0               38.00
936-CM    1979  Cameroon    Fourth Railway                          20.0      15.31
1734-CM   1979  Regifercam  Fourth Railway                27.0               25.17
1753-CM   1979  Cameroon    Second Water Supply           21.0               21.00
975-CM   1980  Cameroon    Hevecam II                              15.0     11.09
1791-CM   1980  Cameroon    Hevecam II                    16.5               16.50
1010-CM   1980  Cameroon    Livestock II                            16.0     16.00
1919-CM/2 1981  Cameroon    Northern Province Rural
Development               25.0               25.0
1920-CM/2 1981  Cameroon    Small and Medium Scale
Enterprises II            15.0               15.0
TOTAL                                   348.51   229.90   251.58
of which has been repaid               16.55     5.80
TOTAL now outstanding                   331.96   224.10
Amount so:Ld                   7.72
of which has been repaid   7.72          -        -
TOTAL now held by Bank
and IDA /                            331.96   224.10
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                       175.50    76.08   251.58
/1   Prior to exchange adjustment.
/2   Not yet effective.



- 27 -                      ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8 pages
SDRs million
Credit                                                    Amount (less cancellations)
Number           Year   Borrower   Purpose                  IDA      Undisbursed
1075-CM 1/       1981   Cameroon   Northern Province       9.5          9.5
Rural Development
Total                              9.5          9.5
B.   Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1981)
Investment  Fiscal
Number     Year   Obligor       Type of Business      Amount in US$ millions
Loan    Equity   Total
311-CM      1975    BATA          Shoe Factory            -       0.38     0.38
355-CM      1977    SAFACAM I   Rubber Plantation         -       0.81      0.81
430-CM      1979    SAFACAM II  Rubber Plantation         -       0.41     0.41
452-CM      1979    ALUCAN        Non-ferrous metal    7.00       0.93      7.93
551-CM      1981    SCM           Food and Food Pro-
cessing              1.12      0.20     1.32
Total gross commitments                                 8.12      2.73    10.85
Less cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                               -       0.25     0.25
Total commitments now held by IFC                       8.12      2.48    10.60
Total undisbursed                                       1.12      0.20      1.32
C.   Projects in Execution 2/
Cr. No. 320    Second Education Project:  US$9 million Credit
of June 28, 1972; Effectiveness Date:
February 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
All project-financed institutions are in operation, except for the
adult vocational training center (CENAFOP) in Douala. Recently transferred
from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Labor, this center is now
expected to open in October 1981. Recent changes in personnel are expected
to lead to improvements in project management.
1/   Not yet effective.  Please note that this project consists of a Bank
loan and an IDA credit.
2/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -                       ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8 pages
Loan No. 983   Livestock Project:  US$11.6 million Loan of May 14, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974;
Closing Date: May 31, 1981.
Physical implemeni:ation has progressed satisfactorily, although
delays in implementation as well as unanticipated price increases have led
to cost overruns. The tsetEse-fly eradication campaign has cleared about
500,000 of the originally pLanned total of 800,000 ha and spraying would
continue under the second project. The credit scheme has exceeded the
appraisal target of 150 loans, and the rate of repayment was acceptable.
Slaughterhouse construction although nearing completion has been halted
because of a conflict between SODEPA and the contractor over financial claims
by the contractor. Government has decided to undertake the completion of the
facilities itself. Additional training of slaughterhouse managers is under
consideration. The SODEPA ranches have become the least successful of the
project components, in spite of completed physical development. Lower than
expected technical performance, as well as delayed implementation and rising
cattle prices have cast doubt on the continued financial viability of these
ranches. Alternate means of dealing with SODEPA-s financial situation are
being analyzed with Government. The second project is helping Government
expand the successful components of this project.
Loan No. 1039 Cocoa Project: US$6.5 million Loan of September 18, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: February 26, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Following Bank-s recommendations, Government contracted a management
consulting firm to review SODECAO. Its recommendations for the reorganization
of SODECAO have largely been carried out, including the appointment of an
expatriate general manager. Project accounts have been audited up to 1979/80.
The new management team instailled since May 1980 is progressively transforming
SODECAO into an effective development agency. The September 1980 supervision
mission found SODECAO's 1980/81 budget and work program satisfactory. However,
little progress has been made to resolve the credit problem arising out of the
conflict between SODECAO and SOCOODERs. Disbursements therefore remain in
suspense until this issue is satisfactorily resolved, although assurances have
been received that on the basis of the detailed analysis of the current
situation made by a consultant, the Government will take steps to bring the
parties together and impose a settlement that will allow a resumption of
normal credit activities.
Cr. No. 575    Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project:
US$ 3 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effectiveness
Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
The line of credit is fully committed and disbursements have reached
82 percent. A second line of credit has been approved by the Board
in November 1980.



- 29 -                      ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8 pages
Loan No. 1734 Fourth Railway Project: US$27 million Loan of
Cr. No. 936    August 23, 1979; Effectiveness Date:  January 22, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983; and US$20 million Credit of
same date; Effectiveness Date: January 22, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983.
The bidding and contracting phase of the project is in progress.
The contracts for civil works for the new Douala station have been finalized
and the earth works are nearly completed. Construction of road and rail
over-bridges is about 50 percent completed. Detailed engineering studies for
the workshop remodelling and the new maintenance depots in Yaounde are in
progress and are on schedule. Contracts for Phase I of civil works in work-
shops and the depots have just been awarded. Procurement of equipment and
materials is in full swing; approximately 60 percent of contracts have been
finalized. Plans have been finalized for remodelling the training school;
equipment is under procurement. Due to the excessive increase in staffing,
the financial situation of the Regie at the end of FY80 was worrying.  Staff
reduction and adequate tariff adjustments will be problems in the long run.
However, traffic is steadily increasing; the railway-s operating efficiency is
also satisfactory.
Loan No. 1245-T     Third Education Project:  US$17 million Third
Window Loan of July 2, 1976; Effectiveness Date:
December 31, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,1981.
The project is about two years behind schedule. One secondary
technical school, transferred from the previous project, is operational;
construction of five other institutions started this year only, because
the award of civil works contracts has been held up pending a Government
A'ecisior on measures to me-t the 34 nercent cost overrun (US$8.4 million).
The Government has now committed itself to finance part of this overrun,
and is considering providing an additional US$2.8 million to meet the
balance. Construction of the remaining six institutions is expected to start
by mid-1981. To strengthen project management, the Government has recently
replaced the Project Director and arrangements are under way to obtain
technical assistance. Prospects for implementation progress have there-
fore improved, and the preparation of a fourth project is under way.
Ln. No. 1321   Second Douala Port Project:  US$15 million Loan
Cr. No. 657    of September 24, 1976; Effectiveness Date:  June 15,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981; and US$10
million Credit of same date; Effectiveness Date:
June 15, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Construction started in December 1976 and is expected to be com-
pleted by December 30, 1980. Higher total cost for the project, will be
covered by financing from ONPC and Government. Due to sound management, and
timely and adequate tariff increases, the Port Authority's financial situation
is satisfactory. The credit and loan have been fully disbursed. The only
remaining work will be dredging of the entrance channel, which should be
completed toward end of February 1982. Maintenance dredging will be quanti-
fied only after the channel dredging is finished, and the channel hydraulics,
suspended materials and density currents reach a state of equilibrium. Situa-
tion may be higher than expected at appraisal which may increase maintenance
dredging costs. Project completion mission next year will follow this up.



- 30 -                      ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8 pages
Cr. No. 672    Plaine des M"Bo Rural Development Project:  US$2 million
Credit of February 28, 1977; Effectiveness
Date: August 29, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Project results show that fully mechanized rice cultivation is
economically not viable in the Plaine. However, Government wishes to continue
its experiment to use a high-capacity rice processing plant, and to pursue
further work in irrigated rice. Government prepared, together with CCCE, a
three-year experimental phase, to commence immediately after this project's
completion date (6.30.1981), and to be financed by these two organizations.
The Bank proposed an integrated rural development approach on the Plain, which
Government intends to include in two projects; for one of them Bank financing
has been requested.
Cr. No. 673    Technical Assistance Project:  US$4.5 million Credit
of June 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: November 14,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project's funds are now almost fully committed, primarily in the
areas of agriculture, transport and planning. Project implementation has
accelerated, particularly in the recruitment of long-term advisory consultants.
A training component prepared by the Department of Studies and Projects in the
Ministry of Agriculture has been reviewed by the Bank and began in July 1980.
Cr. No. 723    Rural Development Fund Project:  US$7 million
Credit of August 4, 1977; Effectiveness Date:
January 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The Project's delayed development continues to accelerate and to
consolidate; standards of physical construction are generally good and the
organization of most sub-projects is greatly improved, as is their planning,
budgeting, accounting and reporting. However, the rate of physical develop-
ment, particularly for dams, boreholes, pump installation and bottomlands,
at approximately 40 percent of appraisal targets, with corresponding cost
overruns of 100 percent, are significant problems. Development of the
irrigated market garden credit scheme and the stall cattle fattening credit
program loan recovery efforts will need to be strengthened. Government has
requested Bank Group assistanc,e for an enlarged second phase, and terms of
reference for a preparation study have been approved. Government is to
request a six-month extension to the credit agreement with aim of covering a
further construction season (8L/82) and coincide with initiation of a second
phase development.



- 31 -                      ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1392   Second SOCAPALM Project:  US$18 million Loan and
US$7 million Third Window Loan of August 25,
1977; Effectiveness Date: November 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
New plantings under the project are satisfactory though imiplementa-
tion is slightly behind schedule. Production potential from earlier plantings
is not being achieved due to lower than expected yields, labor problems,
inadequate maintenance and processing difficulties. Consequently, SOCAPALM's
revenues from bearing areas are below expectations. In agreement with the
Government appropriate measures have been taken to strengthen the company,
including the recruitment of new staff for certain key posts. Furtlhermore,
SOCAPALM has been advised to defer certain new investments. Government
recently approved a 5th capital increase. However, in view of SOCAPALM-s
financial difficulties, an additional capital increase of CFAF 1,500 million
would be required.
Cr. No. 749    Feeder Roads Project:  US$4.6 million Credit and
Ln. No. 1494   US$6.5 million Loan of December 7, 1977; Effective-
ness Date: March 7, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
About 2000 km of feeder roads will be improved and maintained
under the project. The technical assistance team is working satisfac-
torily; the Central Feeder Roads Unit has been established, and local staff
recruited and trained. Due to administrative delays in equipment procure-
ment, major field operations started in March 1980, about one year behind
schedule.
Cr. No. 763    Second SEMRY Rice Project:  US$14.5 million Credit
Ln. No. 1512   of February 1, 1978; Effectiveness Date:  April 14,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1984; and US$14.5
million Loan of February 1, 1978; Effective Date:
April 14, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1984.
Implementation of engineering and irrigation work is proceeding on
schedule. Dike erosion and piping continued in 1980 but a technically and
economically satisfactory solution seems to have been found for permanent dike
protection to be completed in 1983. In 1980, agricultural development was
about 30 percent behind SAR estimates. Resettlement in 1980 was on schedule
but for 1981 it has not yet been entirely secured. In December 1980, Govern-
ment increased the paddy procedure price by 30 percent, which should improve
the agricultural development and resettlement situation. Due to exchange rate
losses and dike protection cost overruns, project funds are expected to be
exhausted by end 1981.  Government has approached co-financers with a requsted
for supplementary financing.



- 32 -                      ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1508   Second CAMDE'V Project:  US$15 million Loan of
February 1, 1978; Effectiveness Date:  June 30, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Estate planting programs are on target but substantial cost overruns
have been incurred since FY 1979-80. CAMDEV business as a whole is in serious
financial difficulties due to high production cost and low yields per hectare.
This recent deterioration is due to the conjunction of three factors (i)
desincentive of the management staff due to an inadequate pension scheme (ii)
constant conflict between the chairman of the Board and the general manager
whose authority has seriously eroded and (iii) inadequate management structure
and internal control system. Government is aware that CAMDEV's present
situation requires immediate and drastic improvement, and in order to restore
the Corporation's financial situation and finance the 1981-82 investment
program Government would have to arrange a capital increase of about CFAF 6.0
billion (US$25.5 million).
Ln. No. 1515   Third Highway Project:  US$16.5 million Loan of
April 3, 1978; Effectiveness Date: October 17, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Construction of the Garoua-Figuil road, the last section of the
Trans-Cameroon rail and road route, was satisfactorily completed in 1979.
Technical assistance to the M4inistry of Transportation is helping to carry out
an origin-destination survey with the first phase having been completed in
September/October 1980. A US$5.6 million cost overrun, mainly due to
exchange rate fluctuations, has been covered by the Government.
Cr. No. 784    Western Highlands Project:  US$13 million Credit
of April 17, 1978; Effectiveness Date: December 8, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project continues to be under good technical and financial
management, with all major technical assistance and local positions being
filled. Although physical execution is somewhat behind appraisal schedules,
owing to organizational problems encountered during the first project year,
improvements have been made which have allowed procurement and disbursement
rates to increase. Government:s contributions to project financing continue
to be regular, and liquidity problems due to delays in preparation of withdrawal
applications have been partly rectified. Government has requested Bank group
assistance to extend the project under a second phase and complete proposal
report anticipated February 1982.



- 33 -                      ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8 pages
Cr. No. 776    Zapi East Integrated Rural Development Project;
US$8.5 million Credit of April 17, 1978; Effective-
ness Date: October 4, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
The project continues to make satisfactory progress. Despite
budgetary constraints, physical implementation of most components is approach-
ing targeted levels for 1980/81. Crop production, processing, disease control,
research, and inland fisheries components are developing well. Reorganization
of extension, credit and distribution services is proceeding. ZAPI's financial
situation shows marked improvement. As a result of internal management
reforms and a Government-authorized subsidy of US$2.1 million, ZAPI should be
able to liquidate its long-standing deficit and resume program expansion in
1981/82. At midterm approximately 50 percent of the IDA credit has been
disbursed.
Cr. No. 926    Fourth Highway Project:  US$10 million Credit of August 23,
Ln. No. 1723   1979; Effectiveness Date:  November 15, 1979; Closinig Date:
June 30, 1986; and US$38 million Loan of same date; Effec-
tiveness Date: November 15, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The Government has selected the firm of Lavalin (Canada) to assist
in implementing the extensive training and road maintenance programs. In
1980, the Government awarded contracts for construction and supervision of
the Bogo-Guirvidig road (34 km) which will serve the Semry II rice project
in northern Cameroon, as part of some 300 km roads selected for rehabilita-
tion by contract. The preinvestment study for the Douala-Yaounde road is
completed. The Bank Group is currently considering, together with other
financing agencies, the financing of the Edea-Yaounde section of this road
under a proposed Fifth Highway Project.  An appraisal mission returned to HQ
on November 7, 1980, and a post appraisal mission on April 3, 1981.
Cr. No. 975    Second HEVECAM Project; US$15 million Credit of April 18, 1980;
Ln. No. 1791   Date:  September 16, 1980; Closing Date:  December 31, 1983;
and US$16.5 million Loan of same date; Effectiveness Date:
September 16, 1980; Closing Date: January 30, 1985.
The project became effective on September 16, 1980 and is progressing
satisfactorily.



- 34 -                       ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND TECHNICAL COOPERATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
Time taken to prepare the project: one year.
Project prepared by: Government with inputs from IDA staff.
Date of first Bank mission to consider the project: December 1979.
Date of departure of appraisal mission: December 2, 1980.
Negotiations completed: April 17, 1981
Planned date of effectiveness: September 30, 1981
Section II:   Special IDA Implementation Action
Assistance as required in recruiting resident specialists and
short-term consultants (para. 50).
Section III: Special Conditions
A. The Government would:
(1)  appoint and maintain in MINEP a qualified and experienced
Project Coordinator (para. 49);
(2)  provide satisfactory evidence of the availability of Came-
roonian professional and support personnel and related office
facilities prior to the Association-s approval of contracts for
resident specialists and training programs (para. 50);
(3)  submit all proposed studies and training programs to the IDA for
prior approval with supporting documentation which would include
a detailed justification, plan of execution, and supporting
services to be provided (para. 51);
(4)  separate budgetary allocation for each project component in
the Government-s annual budget sufficient to support the
project's Cameroon staff and local operating costs for that year
(para. 52);
(5) review the status and results of project activities at least
semi-annually (para. 53);



-35 -                       ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(6) submit to the Association for approval all terms of reference,
qualifications and draft contracts for the services of resident
specialists and short-term consultants prior to signing such
contracts (para. 55); and
(7) procure vehicles and equipment through local competitive bidding
(para. 55).
B.   A condition of disbursement would be that for the social development
component, the Government formally establishes a planning and studies
unit in the Ministry of Social Affairs (para. 47).



I



IWA  L I  |       /                 f.7                        ~~         ~         ~        ~ ~~          ~~~~12'  !   SI ---<
_ _    N,SE R                  C H A D,0.0.     v0                                                                    AK0   C   f
U PPERh            *f  Cbcd           J SUDA N           .                   r
VOJA  (p'N(                         /'0 -\                                         ,,,/0                                                    ' zol sr ......sotI f;rwi
Q)7Hy 00.J      N   GE R I A                                                           .......
z4  0Q                   .0'N} > BY   J  CCENTRAL AFR CAN                                                                                                               To
REP-P         0                                                E     B    I A                                 ,
cOo/ICAMEROON\ ,                                                                   M N6E;4
EQUATOR>   _                                                                             M2
GUIINEA         P.                                                                                                                                       A
iAC   C40NGC1ZA      
Atln       Cei  n         IG A E  C N       /
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON                                                                        4             V
POPULATION, RAINFALL & TRANSPORTATION                                                                      A 
I                     i.'P.'                                                        A
272   oooo0oon  per oq.o,e k lo-neter           PA/ED FAG'E                  |                 ,.
201  5C
5C   CO       Ufl
CO   100 ~     ~         -00
r       4-   ° o   10    e  EC   O C   I LU   1 6 ,  0 ->   o b o('_oo I Ug                                                           frU -r
-:   79  5Rzf  X iX >PvLf X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vooeo 
N    I  G    E    R   I  A                             ol~*~.   Rop                                          0          'MOQOU  
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'0   ~~~~~~~~~ARpo'                                                                                           A      B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  C A   N
,1    ji      )O4.b                                                                                                                                      REPU            C    c=   y
/   MoolepoPo  '    Po o                             R                             F                             P                          UPB .  I                  C
723 .,
-   ,'  ,4   E(;>GU u AITsOERA                                                      AL 00.04 1 Sr~~-    -,   F \DEbOp  ". 7,  . \
RU  INE A  I         ' )  .-                                                                                 6\  '  M ns  '0
*       ~                  -  '              C     ,, 40/   _, , M mlo n r\                                                      l
,   <.-  &\A_   >'-CxX(-    ___!e,,,_.r-                                                                   _.    ;              '4 u)rdou r4 ,L N
-2                                 ,                                  j                            '             g                                   K>--,>                      < "
EQUJATORI AL" GU I N EA   j c                  G  A  B .0N                               C O  N  G O 0\D 
12'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
.   ICONIINEr4TAL    GUINrA}   .   :   i/       {                                                             I  ~~~~~~~~~~  cOr~
c   <,1   T   <   _   ~ _,  _   |   _   1,            { .              1n'                                          T        _ 



I                                                             



