0Opp?TCJI'K    CREDIT NUMBER 1168 CM
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Technical Cooperation Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1168 CM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated IVOV4-,4.L.  , 1981, between UNITED REPUBLIC
OF CAMEROON (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MINEP" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
development planning and programming;
(b) "MINFI" means the Borrower's ministry responsible
for finance;
(c) "MINAGRI" means the Borrower's ministry responsible
for agriculture;.
(d) "MINAS" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
social affairs;
(e) "SNI" means    Societ&   Nationale  d'Investissement,
a state corporation of the Borrower established pursuant to
the Borrower's Law No. 63/25 of June 19, 1963 and -Decree
No. 64/DF/486 of December 16, 1964, as amended;
(f) "DEP" means the Direction des Etudes et Projets
established within MINAGRI pursuant to the Borrower's Decree
No. 76/256 of July 1, 1976, or any successor to DEP;
(g) "DI" means the Directorate of Industry within MINEP, or
any successor thereto;


﻿-2-
(h) "External Debt Division" means the Division de la Dette
Publique established within MINFI pursuant to the Borrower's
Decree No. 81/064 of February 10, 1981, or any successor thereto,
and
(i) "Letter Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between SNI and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eight million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 8,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the terrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the A 'ociation shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasor .Ale cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally, in accordance with local procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.


﻿-3-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing November 15, 1991, and ending May 15,
2031, each installment to and including the installment payable
on May 15, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, economic planning and training practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon its obliga-
tions under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall: (i)
provide adequate budgetary appropriations, in the annual budgets
of each of its ministries and agencies responsible for the execu-
tion of any part of the Project, to make available the funds
to be contributed from its own resources for meeting Project
expenditures; (ii) provide adequate local support personnel and
materials and services (including, in the case of resident
specialists, office facilities) to the specialists and consul-
tants employed under the Project; (iii) appoint and ensure the
availability of qualified Cameroonian professional staff as
required for training activities under the Project; and (iv)
second to SNI the resident specialists and consultants referred
to in paragraphs 1 (c), 1 (d) and 2 (d) of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement, provide it with the vehiclest equipment, and supplies
procured under the Project for the execution of Part D (ii) of
the Project, and cause it to carry out said Part of the Project
in accordance with the Development Credit Agreement and the
Letter Agreement.
Section 3.02. In order to ensure effective monitoring of the
progress of the Project and coordination among the ministries and


﻿-4-
agencies of the Borrower responsible for the execution of the
Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) designate in MINEP, under terms of reference satis-
factory to the Association, a Project Coordinator, qualified and
experienced in administrative matters, development planning and
development projects and reporting directly to the Secretary
General of MINEP who shall have overall responsibility for
the coordination of Project execution;
(b) cause the relevant entities within the ministries and
agencies concerned to cooperate effectively with the Project
Coordinator in carrying out their respective responsibilities
regarding the execution of the Project and to furnish quarterly
progress reports to the Project Coordinator on their Project
activities; and
(c) at least semiannually, convene a meeting of the Project
Coordinator, representatives of said ministries and agencies and
other services of the Borrower concerned with the Project to
review the status of Project activities, the results and recommen-
dations originating therefrom, and further action to be taken for
carrying out the Project and accomplishing the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall employ specialists and consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association, in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. Before entering into any contract with spe-
cialists or consultants to be employed under the Project or under-
taking any training program to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Borrower shall furnish the proposed contract,
including terms of reference, or a description of the proposed
training program, as the case may be, to the Association for its
review and concurrence. Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, such proposals shall be furnished to the Association
together with the following supporting documentation:
(a) a detailed description of the services, studies or
training programs proposed to be carried out, including the
purposes and objectives of the proposed activities and the
benefits expected therefrom, and of any vehicles, equipment or
materials required in connection with such activities;


﻿-5-
(b) detailed information regarding the qualifications,
terms of reference and duration of service for any specialists or
consultants to be employed under the Project for the purpose of
such activities;
(c) a description of the functions of the ministry, agency
or personnel of the Borrower to be responsible for the execution
of such activities;
(d) a description of the support services and facilities to
be provided by the Borrower for the purpose of the proposed
activities, evidence of the measures taken by the Borrower to
ensure the availability of such services and facilities, and a
list of the Cameroonian personnel, if any, to be employed for such
activities in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b)
(iii) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement; and
(e) estimates of foreign and local costs of the proposed
activities broken down by major items and showing amounts and
items to be financed by the Borrower and out of the proceeds of
the Credit, respectively, and an estimated disbursement schedule.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall take all reasonable
measures to facilitate the work of the specialists and consultants
employed under the Project in the performance of their services
therefor and make available to them all information required for
such work.
(b) The Borrower shall not amend or waive any of the terms
and conditions of employment of the specialists or consultants
employed under the Project, or grant any material extension of
time or any approval of sub-contracts or modifications thereof, or
agree to any substitution of personnel of such consultants, or
suspend payments under, or terminate, any contract with such
specialists or consultants without the prior concurrence of the
Association.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall from time to time exchange
views with the Association with respect to the evaluation and
implementation of the recommendations and other conclusions of
reports and studies prepared under the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, any imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance


﻿-6-
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit Pand the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds, including, uithout limita-
tion to the foregoing, biannual progress reports on the execution
of the Project.
(b)   Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(c)   Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Association may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,


﻿-7-
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, including consolidated
accounts to record all Project expenditures and to be maintained
by MINEP (hereinafter called the Project Accounts).
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have the Project
Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, (A) a certified
statement of the Project Accounts for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the Project Accounts and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time tc time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date4 Ttvlk           is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.0 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economic Affairs and
Planning
Yaounde
United Republic of Cameroon


﻿-8-
Cable address:                       Telex.
MINEP                               8268 KN or
Yaound6                             8303 KN
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
ByIS*4"/&               -C -
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Resident specialists'        2,350,000        100%
services
(2) Consultants'                 2,660,000        70%
services
(3) Vehicles, equipment            490,000        100%
and supplies
(4) Unallocated                  2,700,000
TOTAL         8,200,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a)   in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
June 23, 1981; and


﻿- 10 -
(b)   in respect of expenditures for Part F of the Project,
until evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been
furnished to the Association, showing that the Borrower has
established a planning and studies unit within MINAS with such
functions, responsibilities and organization as shall be satis-
factory to the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category,, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
inancing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist the Borrower in the carry-
ing out of its Fifth Development Plan through: (i) the improvement
of the organization and operation of its national planning and
external debt management systems; (ii) the definition of appro-
priate investment policies and programs in key sectors such as in
particular agriculture, industry, energy and social development;
(iii) the support of project preparation activities and the
strengthening of project management in these sectors; and (iv) the
training of Cameroonian staff required for the foregoing.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   National Development Planning
(i) Preparatory studies and subsequent setting up by MINEP's
Planning Department of (a) an improved monitoring system
for the Borrower's Fifth Development Plan, (b) a plan-
ning data bank, (c) a simulation model for the national
economy, and (d) improved forecasts of recurrent costs
of development projects and their incorporation in the
relevant budgets.
(ii) Industrial and household consumption surveys by MINE'.s
Statistical Department.
Part B:   External Debt Management
Establishment and putting into operation by MINFI's External
Debt Division of a system to record and monitor each external
public debt obligation and to assess, on a continuing basis, the
development of the overall external debt structure and future debt
service obligations, including training of staff required for this
purpose.
Part C:   Agriculture
Strengthening of MINAGRI's DEP which shall, in particular:
(i) prepare, supervise and evaluate agricultural and rural
development projects;


﻿- 12 -
(ii) undertake agricultural sector analyses and studies
on such matters as agricultural prices and marketing
arrangements, to permit the elaboration of appropriate
investment policies and programs for the sector; and
(iii) train agricultural sector staff, especially in the
preparation, management and supervision of agricultural
and rural development projects.
Part D:   Industry
(i) Strengthening of DI and analyses and studies of the
industrial sector by DI, with particular emphasis on
(a) revision of the Investment Code, (b) long-term
market prospects for products in areas where Cameroon
enjoys comparative advantages, (c) definition of ways
to promote sub-contracting to local entities and their
integration in the industrialization process, and (d)
investment incentives to permit the elaboration of
appropriate investment policies and programs for the
sector; training of DI staff.
(ii) Strengthening of SNI and preparation of industrial
development projects by SNI, including training of SNI
staff.
Part E:   Energy
Strengthening of the Borrower's institutions responsible
for the energy sector, including studies to identify present and
future energy consumption patterns in Cameroon, the setting up of
an information system to coordinate energy research in Cameroon
and the organization of the documentation on national energy
resources, and training of Cameroonian staff required for these
purposes.
Part F:   Social Development
Strengthening of MINAS and analyses and studies by MINAS
regarding the social impact of policies, investment programs and
development projects in the principal sectors of the Borrower's
economy, including the establishment of a statistical data base,
and training of MINAS staff.


﻿- 13 -
Part G:   Additional Activities
Further studies, training or related activities to be identi-
fied during Project execution and agreed upon between the Borrower
and the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿- 14-
SCHEDULE 3
Specialists and Consultants' Services
(Section 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement)
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall in particular employ the following specialists and consul-
tants:
Approximate
Part of the Project       duration
for which services      of services
are to be used        (in months)
1.   Resident Specialists
(a) Agricultural Planner          C                  24
(b) Industrial Policy
Adviser                    D (i)              36
(c) Industrial Engineer           D (ii)             24
(d) Agro-engineer                 D (ii)             24
(e) Energy Advisor                E                  36
(f) Socio-Economist               F                  36
(g) Statistician/Demographer      F                  36
2.   Short-term Consultants
(a) Development Planning          A                  80
(b) External Debt
Management                 B                  36
(c) Agriculture                   C                  84
(d) Industry - MINEP/DI           D (i)              24
- SNI               D (ii)             24
(e) Energy                        E                  36
(f) Social Development            F                  36


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198L.
FOR SECRETARY


