            Document of
         The World Bank


                                    Report No: 70536-TR




     RESTRUCTURING PAPER

              ON A

PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
               OF THE
RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
  LOAN 4787 TU, EUR 143.7 MILLION
  (US$184.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
            JUNE 9, 2005


             TO THE

      REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

          JUNE 27, 2012
             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

        (Exchange Rate Effective April 30, 2005)

           Currency Unit     =   Yeni Turkish Lira (YTL)
               YTL 1.00      =   US$1.369
               EUR 1.00      =   US$1.285


                     FISCAL YEAR

                January 1 - December 31


         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL      Adaptable Program Loan
ERTMS    European Rail Traffic Management System
ETCS     European Train Control System
PDO      Project Development Objective
RTMS     Rail Traffic Management System
TCDD     Turkish State Railways




  Regional Vice President:       Philippe Le Houérou
        Country Director:        Martin Raiser
          Sector Director:       Laszlo Lovei
         Sector Manager:         Henry G. R. Kerali
       Task Team Leader:         Martha B. Lawrence
                                            TURKEY
                                 RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
                                             P077328
                                       TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                Page
A. SUMMARY .......................................................................................................................... 1
B. PROJECT STATUS............................................................................................................. 1
C. PROPOSED CHANGES ..................................................................................................... 4
ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING ................................................. 5
                        RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT

                                 RESTRUCTURING PAPER

     A. SUMMARY
1.      The purpose of this restructuring paper is to seek approval by the Regional Vice President
for a Level II restructuring of the Turkey Railways Restructuring Project (Loan IBRD-4787,
P077328). The proposed restructuring is intended to: (a) extend the project closing date by 18
months from June 30, 2012 to December 31, 2013; and (b) extend the PDO and intermediate
indicators’ target dates to reflect the longer implementation period. The extension was requested
by the Turkish Treasury in a letter dated June 14, 2012. Regional Vice Presidential approval is
required because the cumulative extension of the project is greater than two years. The extension
of the project will allow Turkish Railways (TCDD) to complete the main investment component,
a signaling system on the Mersin-Toprakkale and Yenice-Bogäzköprü lines, and use available
technical assistance funds to support the railway sector reform specified in the proposed and
recently circulated Law on Liberalization of Railway Transportation in Turkey. Without the
extension, TCDD would not be able to complete the implementation of the signaling system
using Bank loan funds, which is essential for increased capacity and improved safety.

     B. PROJECT STATUS
2.      History: The Railways Restructuring Project was approved by the Board on June 9, 2005
and became effective on June 19, 2006. The Project was intended to be the first phase of a two-
phase Adaptable Program Loan (APL). The objective of the APL was to improve the financial
viability, productivity, and effectiveness of railway operations. The objective of the Project was
to support the Borrower’s implementation of the Program over the four (4) year period 2005-
2009, to improve productivity and effectiveness of railway operations and to assist the TCDD in
reaching a financially sustainable situation and reduce the fiscal burden that TCDD represents
for the Borrower.

3.      The project has five components:
           The Freight Lines Capacity Increase component to support installation of a signaling
            and telecommunications system on the Mersin - Toprakkale and Yenice - Bogäzköprü
            lines and extension of station tracks;
           The Staff Adjustment and Social Plan component to support severance payments to
            TCDD staff under a voluntary retirement scheme to help contain costs;
           The Advisory Services to TCDD component to assist TCDD in carrying out internal
            reforms;
           The TCDD Staff Training and Re-training component; and
           The TCDD Public Communications and Periodic Surveys component to support
            customer and stakeholder surveys and public outreach.

4.     The Project was originally intended to help TCDD and the Government of Turkey
implement new railway legislation aligned with relevant EU directives. However, there were
delays in the original timetable for adoption of this legislation and in 2009 the project was

                                                1
restructured to focus on objectives that could be achieved within Turkey’s existing legislative
framework for the railway sector. The Project development objective and the results indicators
were revised as part of that restructuring.

5.      The revised PDO is to (a) improve the effectiveness of railway operations on the Mersin-
Toprakkale and Yenice-Bogazköprü lines by increasing capacity and improving service quality,
and (b) lay the groundwork for restructuring TCDD by developing experience with financially
viable contract arrangements for loss making public services and access pricing of infrastructure.
During the 2009 restructuring the Project closing date was also extended by 2 years and 9
months.

6.      The Project was restructured again in August 2011 to address land acquisition and
renovations of historic railway station buildings that triggered Bank policies on involuntary
resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) and physical cultural resources (OP/BP 4.11), respectively. No further
changes to the PDO, components and results indicators were made at that time.

7.      Current status: The Project has suffered from implementation delays, especially of the
signaling contract under component 1. The loan has disbursed EUR90 million out of a total loan
amount of EUR144 million; EUR53 million of the loan remains to be disbursed in Component 1
(Freight Line Capacity Increase) and the rest remains to be disbursed in Component 3 (Advisory
Services), Component 4 (Staff Training), and Component 5 (Public Communications and
Periodic Surveys).

8.     Detailed implementation status by component is as follows:

          Freight Line Capacity Increase component: General designs, station tracks and
           reconstruction of buildings to house the signaling equipment have been completed.
           Installation of signaling equipment, switches, cabling is underway and the system is
           being tested in the first group of stations. Overall the physical implementation stands
           at 53%.
          The Staff Adjustment component financed the end-of-employment, lump sum
           payments for retirement of 1,596 TCDD staff. All retirements were voluntary with
           no layoffs. The component was completed in 2009.
          The Advisory Services to TCDD component has financed studies on: (a) Internal
           Financial Controls Risk Assessment; (b) Freight Marketing; (c) Rationalization of
           Passenger Services and Public Service Obligation (PSO); and (d) Maintenance
           Practices Benchmarking and Improvement. TCDD has also carried out pilots
           supporting reforms on public service contracts and infrastructure charging. These
           pilots and studies are designed to prepare TCDD to implement reforms, but they can
           only be meaningfully implemented after the necessary Railway legislation has been
           passed.
          The TCDD Staff Training component has financed trainings on: (a) non-destructive
           testing of rolling stock components and rail track; (b) project management; (c)
           providing distance (on-line, computer based) training; and (d) training of trainers.
          The TCDD Public Communications and Periodic Surveys component supported two
           surveys of TCDD customers and stakeholders. A third survey is currently underway

                                                2
               and will be completed in June 2012. With the third survey, this component will be
               completed.
9.      Project performance on environmental and social safeguards is satisfactory; procurement
performance is satisfactory; and financial management performance is moderately satisfactory
due to delayed entity audit reports with disclaimer of opinions, mostly related to TCDD asset
inventory and valuation of fixed assets. The Project audit report for the year ended December
31, 2010 has been received on time and there are no financial management issues at the project
level. There are no outstanding audit reports or reports that are not satisfactory to the Bank.

10.     Request and rationale for extension: With over EUR 50 million under component 1
undisbursed and physical implementation 53% complete, it became clear in early 2012 that
completion of the project and achievement of its objectives with respect to improved capacity
and quality of railway services on a key freight route was unlikely to be achievable by the
project’s revised closing date in June 2012. At the same time, intensive efforts were made by
TCDD and the contractor implementing the signaling contract to resolve contractual disputes,
which had been a cause for delay in implementation. The resulting agreements were officially
recorded and a detailed implementation plan was prepared that would allow completion of all
project activities by December 2013. This plan has been reviewed by Bank experts and the
supervision consultant retained under the project and is regarded as credible. On the basis of
these agreements, the borrower requested an 18 month extension on June 14, 2012.

11.    The rationale for a second extension and corresponding project restructuring is as
follows:

         High priority commercial investment: The requested 18-month extension would allow
          the main investment component, installation of a new signaling system on the Mersin-
          Toprakkale and Yenice-Bogäzköprü lines, to be completed. The investment is a high
          priority for TCDD. It would increase capacity and improve safety on two congested main
          lines. This will allow TCDD to handle more freight traffic from the port of Mersin, which
          is the third largest port in Turkey and is expected to expand further in coming years.
          Currently, TCDD carries less than 5 percent of the traffic to/from the port. TCDD is
          building a logistics village at the junction of the two lines (at Yenice) to serve containers
          and other traffic from the port. TCDD management at all levels emphasizes the
          commercial importance and hence high priority of these investments.

         EU compatibility: The project supports the first installation in Turkey of a European-
          compatible train control system with in-cab train controls and wayside balises.1
          Signaling systems are safety critical and the project provides for professional technical
          supervision of the design and installation of the system through consultants experienced
          with European signaling systems. Halting the project in the middle of implementation
          could lead to additional delays and increased safety risks.

         Renewed momentum in railway reform: The government of Turkey is taking steps to
          revive the railway sector reforms. In November 2011, the Ministry of Transport,

1
    The system complies with European Rail Traffic Management System (ERTMS) Level 1 specifications.

                                                       3
          Maritime and Communications (MoT) issued a decree law, which reorganized the
          Ministry into twenty service units and created a Railway Regulation Directorate with
          responsibility to regulate the railway industry. In May 2012, MoT circulated a draft Law
          on Liberalization of Railway Transportation expected to move the reform agenda
          forward. MoT plans to submit the law to Parliament before the 2012 summer recess.
          These are important steps for aligning the Turkish rail transport regulation with the
          European Union Acquis for railways. Extension of the project would allow TCDD to use
          technical assistance funds remaining in the Project to support: (a) the restructuring of
          TCDD including the separation of TCDD into an infrastructure and an operations
          company; (b) implementation of access charging; and (c) training on safety in the new
          operating environment.

12.     Risks and risk mitigation: Given the project’s record to date, there is a considerable risk
that implementation of the key signaling contract continues to lag. This risk has been mitigated
to some extent by the agreement of a specific action plan with concrete time-bound milestones
that will be continuously monitored by the borrower and the Bank. Moreover, all sides are aware
that failure to adhere to this action plan may trigger remedial action by the Bank prior to the
revised closing date of December 2013.

13.    The residual implementation risk is outweighed by the failure to achieve the PDO and
associated reputational risks to the Bank and the borrower should the project close end June
2012. This second project extension of 18 months is proposed in due consideration of the
balance of risks discussed above.

  C. PROPOSED CHANGES

14.       The following changes are proposed to the project.

         Closing Date. The project closing date would be extended by 18 months, from June 30,
          2012 to December 31, 2013.

         Indicators. The PDO and intermediate outcome indicators and targets remain the same,
          but the target dates are adjusted in line with the proposed additional 18 months of
          implementation (see Annex 1).

15.    No changes are proposed to the Project’s Development Objective, components,
safeguards classification, institutional arrangements, financing, financial management or
procurement.




                                                  4
                                                                                ANNEX 1:
                                                                Revised Results Framework and Monitoring
                                                            TURKEY: RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING PROJECT


                                  D=Dropped                                           Year                                            Data Collection and Reporting
                           Core




 PDO Level Results                C=Continue    Unit of       Baseline
    Indicators                    N= New        Measure        2008                                                                                Data Source/        Responsibility for
                                                                             2012                  2013                  Frequency
                                  R=Revised                                                                                                        Methodology          Data Collection
Indicator One:                                 Passenger-                                                                 Annually                    TCDD                TCDD with
Annual traffic volume                          km             270,400       302,500               310,000         Single report finalized by     Operating Systems       monitoring of
on Mersin-Toprakkale                  C         Freight                                                           March 31 of following year                              Ministry of
and Yenice-                                    ton-km                                                                                                                 Transport and World
Bogäzköprü lines                                              886,800       891,000               923,000                                                                    Bank
increases2:


Indicator Two:                                                                                                            Annually                    TCDD                TCDD with
Average Commercial                                                                                                Single report finalized by     Operating Systems       monitoring of
Freight Train Speed3:                 C         Km/hour          35           35                    45            March 31 of following year                              Ministry of
   Mersin-Toprakkale                                             25           25                    35                                                                Transport and World
   Yenice- Bogäzköprü                                                                                                                                                        Bank

Indicator Three:                                                                                                          Annually                    TCDD                TCDD with
Increase in share of net              C            %            5.9%         6.3%                  6.5%           Single report finalized by     Operating Systems       monitoring of
tons of traffic to/from                                                                                           March 31 of following year      & port of Mersin        Ministry of
Mersin Port handle by                                                                                                                                                 Transport and World
rail                                                                                                                                                                         Bank
Indicator Four:                                    na       No experience                                                 Annually               TCDD Planning &          TCDD with
PSO                                   C                      with PSO                                             Single report finalized by       Coordination          monitoring of
                                                              contracts                                           March 31 of following year       Department             Ministry of
                                                                                                                                                                      Transport and World
                                                                                                                                                                             Bank
Indicator Five:                                    na       No experience                       Full Network              Annually               TCDD Planning &          TCDD with
Infrastructure Access                 C                      with access                     Statement prepared   Single report finalized by       Coordination          monitoring of
                                                             pricing or                                           March 31 of following year       Department             Ministry of


        2
         Defined as the sum of Freight ton-km reported by TCDD for component line segments.
        3
         Commercial speed is the average speed at which a train traverses the line, including waiting time. This contrasts to design speed, which is the “speed limit? or
        maximum speed at which a train can traverse the line, if no delays.
                                 D=Dropped                                   Year                                   Data Collection and Reporting

                          Core
 PDO Level Results               C=Continue    Unit of    Baseline
    Indicators                   N= New        Measure     2008                                                                  Data Source/        Responsibility for
                                                                      2012              2013          Frequency
                                 R=Revised                                                                                       Methodology          Data Collection
                                                           network                                                                                  Transport and World
                                                          statement                                                                                         Bank
Intermediate Result                  C            %            0      77                100            Annually                  Supervision            TCDD with
indicator One:                                                                                 Single report finalized by     Consultants Report       monitoring of
Share of project works                                                                         March 31 of following year                               Ministry of
completed                                                                                                                                           Transport and World
                                                                                                                                                            Bank
Intermediate Result                  C           Staff       0        400               400            Annually                TCDD Training            TCDD with
indicator Two:                                  trained                                        Single report finalized by      Department Data         monitoring of
Number of staff trained                                                                        March 31 of following year                               Ministry of
during the project is                                                                                                                               Transport and World
2500.                                                                                                                                                       Bank
Intermediate Result                  C        Survey         0                                 One report every two years          Report by        TCDD with
indicator Three:                              conducted                                                                           specialized       monitoring of
Independent surveys                                                                                                               consultant        Ministry of
carried out (3)                                                                                                                                     Transport and World
                                                                                                                                                    Bank




                                                                                    6
