Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11640
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
INTEREST SUPPORT LOAN
(LOAN 3159-ME)
FEBRUARY 8, 1993
Mexico Country Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
On December 12, 1989, the exchange rate in the controlled market
was US$1 - Mex$2,620.00; the free market exchange rate stood at US$1 -
Mex$2,642.00.
ABBREVIATIONS
DDSR                     -     Debt and Debt Service Reduction
EFF                      -     IMF Extended Fund Facility
GDP                      -     Gross Domestic Product
IBRD                     -     International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
IDB                      -     International Development Bank
IECDI                    -     Debt and International Finance Division
IMF                      -     International Monetary Fund
IRR                      -     Internal Rate of Return
LIBOR                    -     London Interbank Offering Rate
NAFTA                    -     North America Free Trade Agreement
PCR                      -     Project Completion Report
PECE                     -     Pact for Stabilization and Growth
SDR                      -     Special Drawing Rights
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
February 8, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:         Project Completion Report on Mexico -
Interest Support Loan (Loan 3159-ME)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on Mexico - Interest Support
Loan (Loan 3159-ME)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office, with Part II
contributed by the Borrower.
This is an excellent PCR on a very complex and successful project, the first of its kind in the
Baank. The Interest Support Loan was part of the Bank's support for the Debt and Debt Service Reduction
(DDSR) plan of the Government of Mexico. The loan included exchange of old debt for new--partially
guaranteed debt carrying a discount in the principal or below market interest rates--and it aimed at covering
Mexico's external financing requirements, thus helping support the Government's adjustment program.
The PCR rightly indicates that the efficiency gains of the project, i.e., its impact on the growth
prospects of the country, were far more significant than the pure financial gains measured by the internal
rate of return on the enhancement funds. In fact, in 1989, following a long period of economic stagnation,
economic growth resumed led by a strong recovery in private investment. In addition the DDSR plan also
contributed to reduce nominal interest rates and thus realize government savings on domestic debt service.
Sustainability of the project is evidenced by the current outstanding fiscal performance of the
country accompanied by a sizable reduction of domestic and foreign debt during 1990-92. At the same
time, the deterioration in the current account of the balance of payments has been more than compensated
by large private capital inflows leading to strong build up of foreign exchange reserves.
Finally, one should stress that the Bank, for this operation, did not impose as condition of
effectiveness or disbursement any upfront policy conditionality. Instead, the operation is based on the
country's proven commitment to adjustment reforms under the ongoing Bank's adjustment program and
IMF's EFF.
An audit of this adjustment operation is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
INTEREST SUPPORT LOAN
(LOAN 3159 ME)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .i...  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
PART I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .1
1. Project Identity .
2. Background                 1..
A. The 1982 Debt Crisis  ....  .       .  .  .    ..I....  .  .  .  .     . .
B. Domestic Adjustment and the Evolving Debt Strategy  . . .            2
C. Stabilization and Structural Reform:
Preconditions of the 1989-90 Debt Restructuring  . . .           3
3. Objectives: Restructuring Debt to Support
Sustainable Economic Growth ..                                   5
A. External and Public Finance Requirements   .         .5
B. The Case for Debt Relief .... . . . .                                6
C. Objectives ..                                                        6
4.  Project Description and Implementation: The Debt Agreement  .           6
A. Debt Negotiations: Role of Creditor Governments                      6
B. World Bank Contribution: the Interest Support Loan . .               9
C. Terms of the Agreement .11
D.  Outcome  .....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  13
E.  Special Features: Novation, Free Riding
and Recapture Clause  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  16
5. Results .17
I. Nominal Debt Relief    ..17
A. Short- and Medium-Term Cash-Flow Relief .18
B. Long-Term Debt Relief .19
C. Efficiency of Debt-Enhancement Funds: the Internal Rate
of Return Approach .20
II.  Debt Relief at Market Prices .22
A   Debt Relief at Market Prices: an Example.23
B.  Market Valuation of the New Instruments .24
C.  Market Valuation of the Debt Package: Did Mexico Obtain
a Good Bargain? .26
III. Debt Management Issues    ..27
A. Burden Sharing   ..27
B. Flexibility of Debt Management .29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IV.  Efficiency Gains: Domestic Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . .             30
A.  Was There a Debt Overhang? . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            33
B.  Better Creditor Coalition  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            34
C.  A Lower Internal Transfer  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            35
D.  Reduced Domestic Uncertainty . . . . . . . . . . . . .            36
6. Impact on Sustainability .38
7.  Summary of Findings and Lessons from Experience  . . . . . . .             38
PART II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . .              41
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  47
1.  Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             47
2.  Cumulative Loan Disbursements FY90  . . . . . . . . . . .             47
3.  Adjustmeent Operations  ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  47
4.  Mission Data  ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  48
TABLES
A. Fiscal Accounts ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  49
B. National Accounts ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  53
C. Balance of Payments ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  55
D. Debt Structure  ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  56
E. Collateral Accounts ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  58
F. Mix of Options Chosen by Commercial Banks . . . . . . . . . .             59
ANNEXES
1.  The 1982-83, 1984-85 and 1986-87 Debt Reschedulings . . . . .             63
2.  Macroeconomic Stabilization ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  64
3.  Structural Reforms in Mexico  ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  66
4.  Pre-Deal Debt Structure and Medium-Term
Finance Requirements ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  68
5.  The Interest Support Loan and Bank Support for the
Debt and Debt Service Reduction Plan . . . . . . . . . . .            70
6.  Terms of the 1989-90 Debt Agreement . . . . . . . . . . . . .             71
7.  Calculation of Market Value of Mexican Claims . . . . . . . .             76
8.  Foreign Debt Factors Behind Exchange Rate Uncertainty
and Private Investment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            81
ATTACHMENTS
1.  Comments from IMF ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  84
2.  Comments from EXIM Bank of Japan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             87



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
INTEREST SUPPORT LOAN
(LOAN 3159-ME)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Interest Support
Loan to Mexico (Loan 3159-ME) in an amount equivalent to US$1.26 billion. The
loan was fully disbursed on February 16, 1990 and closed on May 31, 1990.
The PCR was prepared by the Country Operations Division of Mexico
(LA2C1) in the Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and by Bancomext, the Borrower's Agent
(Part II). On March 31, 1992 the Bank sent to the Borrower and to the
Cofinanciers, the IMF and the EXIM Bank of Japan 1', Parts I and III for
comments. Cofinanciers, the IMF and the EXIM Bank of Japan, provided comments
(Attachments I and 2).
Preparation of this PCR was started in December 1991 and is based,
inter-alia, on the Report and Recommendation of the President, on the loan and
guarantee agreements, on internal Bank memoranda and on the Memorandum to the
Board "Analytic Aspects of Debt and Debt Service Reduction Operations"
(January 1992). Preparation of this report has also benefitted from support
provided by the Debt and International Finance Division (IECDI).
1/ Strictly speaking the Japan Exim Bank (JEXIM) was not a cofinancier to the
Interest Support Loan. JEXIM did, however, cofinance with three World Bank
sector adjustment loans (which were part of the 1990 debt deal) and lend
Mexico in parallel with IMF's Extended Fund Facility.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
INTEREST SUPPORT LOAN
(LOAN 3159-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1. Objectives (paras. 10-14). The Interest Support Loan was part of the Bank's
support for the Debt and Debt Service Reduction (DDSR) plan of the Government
of Mexico; it provided funds for enhancement of interest of the new bonds
issued in exchange for old commercial debt. DDSR operations comprised the
exchange of old debt for new, partially guaranteed, debt which either carried
a discount in the principal or a below market fixed interest rate. DDSR
operations were aimed at covering Mexico's external financing requirements,
thus, helping support the Government's adjustment program, further structural
reforms and the resumption of sustained economic growth. The reduction in
required net transfers to creditors was expected to have a direct beneficial
impact on Mexico's fiscal situation and, thus, on investment and output
growth. Indirect or "secondary effects" through renewed private sector
confidence were expected to play an equally important role in supporting
sustainable economic growth.
2. Description (paras. 29-33). The DDSR agreement with Mexico's commercial
creditors consisted of a menu of financing options which included two debt and
debt service reduction facilities and four new money facilities. The debt and
debt service reduction facilities consisted of exit bonds with the principal
securitized by zero-coupon US Treasury bonds (or equivalent bonds depending on
the currency of denomination of the bond) with a maturity date matching that
of the Mexican bonds. All bonds would be repaid in a single installment on
December 31, 2019. In addition, interest payments would be partly secured by
a pledge by Mexico of cash or permitted investments in the relevant currencies
for an amount equal to 18 months of interest payments due. 2/ Both par and
discount bonds were offered in the menu; discount bonds carried a 35% discount
and an interest rate of LIBOR plus 13/16, and par bonds carried a fixed 6.25%
interest rate (or equivalent rates if bonds were not dollar-denominated).
Lenders who did not commit to the par or discount bonds had to reschedule
existing debt and lend an additional 25% of that amount over the 1990-92
period. The new money option carried a 15 year maturity and 7 years grace and
had to be disbursed in six semi-annual tranches. Banks that have chosen
discount or par bonds were eligible to recover some of the money given up
through a "recapture clause". Under this clause, beginning July 1996, 30% of
the additional oil revenues Mexico gets if the price of oil rises above $14
per barrel (to be adjusted for US inflation), will accrue to the banks that
have granted debt and debt service relief. The total amount to be recaptured,
2/ That is, covering three semi-annual interest payments.



- iv -
however, would not exceed in any year 3Z of the nominal value of the debt
exchanged.
3. Role of the Bank (paras. 24-28). Since 1986 the Bank had made major
contributions to policy reform in Mexico providing support to the maintenance
of a consistent macroeconomic framework and deepening structural reforms aimed
at creating the preconditions for economic recovery. In the years immediately
preceding and following the DDSR agreement fiscal adjustment was strengthened
and structural reforms deepened. Macroeconomic conditionality set under World
Bank Sectoral Adjustment Loans and an IMF Extended Fund Facility (EFF) was met
in excess for most targets. Under the agreement signed with Mexico for the
Interest Support Loan the World Bank helped Mexico through measures that
explicitly support debt and debt service reduction. To implement Mexico's
credit enhancement scheme for the discount and par bonds, it was necessary for
the Government to obtain limited waivers of the restrictions against giving
security on (other) external debt -- the negative pledge restrictions --
contained in agreements that Mexico had entered into with the Bank, IDB and
other external creditors including the commercial banks. The Bank did consent
to waive the negative pledge restriction up to an amount equivalent to $7.5
billion for the principal and interest payments on the discount and par bonds.
The Bank also restructured the $750 million guarantees under "Facility 2" and
"Facility 3" of the 1987 Multi-Facility Agreement.
4. The World Bank played a key advisory role to Mexico on the design,
formulation and evaluation of the menu options in the DDSR plan, e.g., on the
pricing of the oil recapture clause and fixed interest options. And it
advised the Government of Mexico during negotiations with the Commercial Bank
Advisory Comittee. There were operational lessons as well. The Interest
Support Loan was the first operation of its kind. Its implementation required
the development of new internal procedures and documentation: it was the first
World Bank loan which was an advance rather than a reimbursement for
imports/expenses. Thus, to ensure that the loan financed the purchase of
collateral the World Bank had to reserve the right to require prepayment of
the loan if such proceeds were not used to achieve debt-debt service reduction
or if, having the resources been allocated to debt-debt service reduction, the
collateral was released. Another unique feature of the Interest Support Loan
was that the Bank did not impose as a condition for effectiveness and
disbursement any upfront conditionality. This was fully because the level of
existing conditionality was already considered high and because Mexico's past
track record was excellent. With the benefit of hindsight, it was correct not
to impose on Mexico extra conditionality.
5. Implementation and Project Outcome (paras. 24-38). Under the agreement
signed with Mexico for the Interest Support Loan the World Bank lend $1.26
billion for financing collateral in respect of interest payments on discount
and par bonds to be issued by Mexico for DDSR. In addition, the Bank provided
$750 million of set asides from existing Bank loans to be issued for reducing
the stock of commercial bank debt of Mexico. Funds for credit enhancement
also came from Mexico's own reserves, $1.37 billion, the IMF, $1.68 billion,
and the Government of Japan, $2.05 billion. Since the IMF and Japan did not
frontload all of their contributions (i.e., did not disburse their
contributions at the time of the debt exchange) a $1.09 billion credit line



-v-
from commercial banks temporarily covered the needs to purchase the collateral
for the debt exchange. A total of $7.12 billion was needed to secure the DDSR
instruments subscribed by Mexico's commercial creditors; the availability of
enhancement moneys (after the $1.09 billion line of credit was cancelled) was
as follows: IBRD, $2010 million; IMF, $1688.5 million; Japan, $2050 million;
and Mexico, $1373.6 million, i.e., a total of $7.12 billion.
6. As a result of the debt agreement, a total of $45.3 billion of commercial
bank debt was restructured (excluding Mexican creditors) of which 49.5% was
committed to the par bond, 40.5% to the discount bond and 10.1% to the new
money option and uncommitted money.   Including Mexican creditors, none of
which chose par bonds, a total of $48.2 billion of commercial bank debt was
restructured of which 46.5% was committed to the par bond, 42.6% to the
discount bond and 10.9% to the new money option and uncommitted money.
7. Debt Relief (paras. 41-45 and paras. 50-58). Mexico's annual interest
relief brought about by the debt deal ranges between $1.1-$1.5 billion over
1990-95 depending on the level of debt service refinancing assumed as a
counterfactual, i.e., the level of principal and interest refinancing that
would have occured in the absence of the DDSR agreement. Cash-flow relief,
given that $4 billion of the loans for debt enhancement were additional (i.e.,
loans which in the absence of the debt agreement would have not been granted),
and that 100% of the principal would have been refinanced in any case,
averages $1 billion per annum over 1990-95. Debt relief, defined as the
reduction in the present discounted value of expected payments as a percentage
of the face value of outstanding debt, for the actual mix of par bonds,
discount bonds and new money chosen by non-Mexican creditors was 29.5% (26.8%
if the oil recapture clause is included). An alternative view on how to
evaluate a debt package like the Mexican focuses on the pre- and post-deal
market value of Mexico's commercial debt. Since creditors always have the
option not to negotiate in such a voluntary approach, one cannot expect the
market value of the claims to go down as a result of the negotiations unless a
third party is willing to offset the impact of nominal debt relief on market
value by enhancing, in one form or another, the market value of the new claims
to be created after the negotiations. In this view, there is debt relief if
the market value of the claims without the enhancements goes down or if the
market value with enhancements does not go up by more than the value of the
enhancements, i.e., if the enhancement resources accrue at least in part to
Mexico. 3/ Mexico indeed obtained most of the value of the enhancement
moneys, i.e., the market value of debt inclusive of enhancements went up by
only a small fraction of the enhancements (1.4%).
8. Rate of Return of the Proiect (paras. 46-48). The internal rate of return
of enhancement funds, calculated considering as net benefits the reduction in
scheduled cash flow over the next thirty years, was in a 16%-40Z range
depending on how much debt refinancing could have been obtained in the absence
3/ This approach assumes that the market value of debt is a good measure of
expected repayments by the country; although an effort was made to control for
other factors affecting secondary market debt prices a margin for error due to
omitted factors remains.



- vi -
of the DDSR agreement and on whether the oil recapture clause is included or
not. This range is well above the cost at which Mexico borrowed the
enhancement funds, or the rate of return that Mexico could have obtained for
the foreign exchange reserves devoted to the package (around 8%).
9. Efficiency Gains (paras. 68-73). The domestic or indirect effects of the
debt agreement proved to be far more important than purely financial gains.
In 1989, after a long period of economic stagnation, Mexico resumed per capita
income growth. Economic growth, averaging 3.5% per annum over 1989-91, was
led by a strong recovery of private investment. The return of private sector
confidence was also reflected in large private capital inflows including
substantial capital repatriation. While it is not possible to ascribe
Mexico's economic success to DDSR alone, it is clear that, at a minimum, DDSR
has paved the way for the success of other deep structural reforms implemented
during the period. The DDSR plan contributed to reduce domestic nominal
interest rates to record low levels for the decade. While part of this impact
is ascribable to fiscal alleviation implied by a reduced external transfer to
commercial creditors a far more important part of it stemmed from a smoother
and more predictable external transfer associated, in turn, with greater
stability in foreign exchange markets as well as in other dimensions of
economic policy. From a strictly fiscal point of view the indirect effects of
the debt agreement were clearly more important than the direct effects: based
on the 20 percentage points reduction in domestic nominal interest rates that
occurred within weeks following the announcement of the agreement, savings on
domestic debt service were equivalent to about 4% of GDP, that is, 8 times
larger than the savings on external interest service. Renewed investor
confidence may have also been derived from: i) the signalling effects of the
support provided by the World Bank, IMF and creditor governments; ii) a
reduction in the possible disincentives to structural adjustment and
investment resulting from expected higher future taxes; and iii) reduced
uncertainty about future repayments derived from a better coordination between
Mexico and its creditors and reduced exposure to foreign interest rate
fluctuations.
10. Impact on Sustainability (paras. 74). Mexico's fiscal performance remains
outstanding and was reflected in sizable reductions of domestic and foreign
public debt in 1990-92. Although the current account has deteriorated sharply
in 1990-91, this is mainly the result of a private sector investment boom and
has, in any case, been overfinanced by large private capital inflows
(primarily portfolio and direct foreign investment) leading to strong reserve
accumulation of over $10 billion in 1990-91. The attainments of the program
and the sustainability of the project thus are not at risk, particularly, in
view of the projected improvement of public sector creditworthiness
indicators.
11. Main Findings and Lessons Learned.  Mexico's success in negotiating
favorable agreement with its commercial creditors can be traced to the;(
effective way in which it managed to prevent free riding by any private
creditor on the debt relief granted by others. A tax payer financed creditor
bail-out was thus avoided. The concerted nature of the agreement, and the
sizable political support, most notably from the US, that made it possible,
were thus essential to this success. Equally important was the menu of



- vii -
options offered to commercial creditors, which helped to accommodate the
diverse needs and expectations of banks facing different regulatory and tax
environments. The success of the Mexico's global debt restructuring can also
be traced back to good burden sharing between official and private creditors:
1990-94 scheduled net repayments to private and official creditors dropped
respectively 9.4-9.5% between 1989 and 1990 (measured as a percentage of their
original debt stocks). The oil recapture clause, by allowing the banks to
recover part of their losses if oil prices increased above $14 per barrel
(inflation-adjusted), made possible a larger amount of debt relief as banks
obtained in exchange for their existing claims a more valuable (contingent)
claim. While there was no contingency financing, partly because US
regulations prevented direct issue of commodity-indexed instruments, interest
guarantees added substantial downside protection. And the conversion of about
half of Mexico's commercial debt into fixed interest instruments (par bonds)
reduced Mexico's exposure to foreign interest rate volatility, thus, providing
an implicit insurance against possible increases in foreign interest rates.
12. The above findings about design and implementation of DDSR operations
provide useful lessons for future operations of this kind. The World Bank
played a key advisory role to Mexico on the design, formulation and evaluation
of the menu options in the DDSR plan, e.g., on the evaluation of the oil
recapture clause and the pricing of the fixed-interest (par bond) option. The
World Bank also advised the Government of Mexico during negotiations with the
Commercial Bank Advisory Comittee. Operational lessons from the World Bank
involvement in the DDSR plan were also important. The Interest Support Loan
was the first operation of its kind in the World Bank and its implementation
required developing new disbursement and legal procedures to ensure that the
loan financed the purchase of collateral. For example, the World Bank
reserved the right to require prepayment of the loan if such proceeds were not
used to achieve debt-debt service reduction or if, having the resources been
allocated to debt-debt service reduction, the collateral was released (if
Mexico repurchases its debt). The World Bank, as the IDB and commercial
creditors, had also to consent to the waiver of the negative pledge
restriction allowing the government to purchase collateral up to $7.5 billion
for the principal and interest payments on the discount and par bonds. The
World Bank did not impose as a condition for effectiveness and disbursement of
the Interest Support Loan any upfront conditionality. This was due to the
existence of substantial second tranche conditionality set by the World Bank
adjustment loans and conditionality set under the IMF's EFF, and to Mexico's
excellent track record on policy reform and on achieving macroeconomic policy
targets. With the benefit of hindsight the perception that Mexico was
committed to adjustment and reform was correct and so the World Bank did well
in not imposing on Mexico extra conditionality.
13. The DDSR agreement brought about substantial short-term interest relief
but, more important, prevented a liquidity crunch stemming from the need to
load upfront debt enhancement resources. The outflow of resources required to
purchase collateral was mostly funded from additional borrowing, i.e., funds
which were not going to be available in the absence of the deal. The critical
difference between traditional debt rescheduling and DDSR, though, emerges
over the long term.   Long-term debt relief (defined as the reduction in the
discounted value of debt service as a percentage of the face value of



- viii -
outstanding debt) resulting from the actual mix of options chosen by non-
Mexican creditors was 29.5Z. Furthermore, the enhancement moneys have not
only achieved nominal debt relief, they also achieved effective market value
debt relief, i.e., the market value of the debt without enhancements dropped
after the deal. The post-deal market value with enhancements went up but only
slightly above the pre-deal market value. Thus, banks were only marginally
better off implying that Mexico obtained most of the value of enhancement
resources.
14. Efficiency gains derived from the deal were far more important than
purely financial gains from debt relief. Efficiency gains, reflected in lower
domestic interest rates and higher private investment, stemmed from the
favorable impact of a smaller, smoother and more predictable transfer to
foreign creditors on exchange rate devaluation expectations/uncertainty and,
thus, on macroeconomic policy stability in general. Although more analysis is
required to identify and measure efficiency gains derived from the debt deal
it is clear that in the absence of the other deep and widespread structural
reforms that Mexico underwent during the period the above gains would not have
materialized to the extent that they did.
15. All expectations about the loan's benefits at the time it was approved
(as stated in the President's Report) were met. In particular, expectations
about the impact of the debt agreement on economic growth were fulfilled,
i.e., the materiality test was satisfied. It is difficult to ascertain
whether the design of the DDSR agreement could have been improved upon to
increase benefits and/or reduce risks. However, given the resources available
for debt enhancement and the fact that commercial banks would not enter into
an agreement which would make them worse off, Mexico obtained as much debt
relief as it conceivably could have expected. In other words, the DDSR
agreement efficiently achieved Mexico's debt relief objective.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
INTEREST SUPPORT LOAN
(LOAN 3159-ME)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Proiect Identity
Name               :     Interest Support Loan
Loan Number              3159-ME
RVP Unit                 LAC Region
Country                  Mexico
Type of Loan             Sectoral Adjustment
2. Background
A. The 1982 Debt Crisis
1.    Between 1950 and 1974, Mexico enjoyed a remarkable period of high
growth, low inflation and moderate external debt accumulation. Real growth
averaged 6.4%, and inflation was in single digits throughout the period, in
line with the prudent fiscal policies followed. This era of fiscal
conservatism came to an abrupt end in the early seventies. Government
involvement in the economy expanded rapidly, and increased public expenditure
pushed up aggregate demand and the rate of economic growth. However, the
higher government expenditure was not matched by rising public sector
revenues. As a result, the inflation tax and external debt became
increasingly important sources of public finance. At the same time, a decline
in private savings incentives (real interest rates turned sharply downward)
prevented a matching increase in private savings; external debt thus
increased, increased oil revenues notwithstanding. The period of single digit
inflation ended in 1973, the real exchange rate-l started to appreciate and
the accumulation of external debt accelerated above the GNP growth rate. A
serious, but comparatively brief, financial and economic crisis in 1976 ended
following major oil discoveries in 1977. The ensuing prosperity lasted until
1982, when soaring domestic inflation, falling international oil prices,
rising world interest rates and massive capital flight ($21 billion in 1981-82
according to recent estimates) 5/ led to a refusal by external creditors to
4/ The real exchange rate is defined as the price of foreign goods relative to
domestic goods. Appreciation means a decline in this relative price.
5/ See Harald Eggerstedt, Rebecca Brideau and Sweder van Wijnbergen,
"Measuring Capital Flight in Mexico", mimeo, 1991, World Bank.



roll over the principal of about $8 billion of Mexico's external public debt
and a subsequent suspension of Mexican external debt service payments.
B. Domestic Adiustment and the Evolving Debt Strategv
2.    The onset of the financial and economic crisis of 1982 brought in its
wake explosive inflationary and balance of payments difficulties. Initial
strong fiscal and monetary adjustment efforts were alternately not sustained
for a sufficiently long period (1983-85) or undermined by external shocks such
as the collapse in international oil prices (1986). Despite the severe fiscal
adjustment, inflation, rather than slowing down, accelerated, partially in
response to the sharp real devaluation of the exchange rate necessitated by
the 1986 downturn in the terms of trade. The subsequent de facto targeting of
the real exchange rate, together with an increase in the frequency of wage and
cost adjustments, introduced an element of inherent instability into the
system. In that context, a speculative run on the peso in late 1987 prompted
a large peso devaluation and triple-digit inflation. Nonetheless, and despite
the sharp fall in oil prices, between 1981 and 1987 the primary deficit (non-
interest public expenditure minus public revenues) of 8% was transformed into
a surplus of 5.6% of CDP and the $6 billion trade deficit was transformed into
a $10 billion trade surplus.
3.    Domestic adjustment came along with three major commercial debt
reschedulings, respectively in 1982-83, 1984-85 and 1986-87 (Annex 1). These
major reschedulings were linked with three debt restructurings agreed with
Paris Club creditors. As a consequence the average maturity of Mexico's
foreign debt debt increased from 8 years in 1981 to 14 years in 1987 and the
spread over LIBOR was reduced from 2 and 1/4 to 13/16 points. 61 However,
despite a substantial drop in the average interest rate on foreign debt (from
14.9% in 1981 to 7.7% in 1987, due mainly to lower international interest
rates), the average annual net transfer to creditors over 1983-86 averaged
$5.5 billion, or about 4% of GDP. As a consequence Mexico's foreign debt was
unchanged (in real dollar terms) between 1983 and 1987. However, economic
growth ground to a virtual halt over 1982-87 along with a sharp deterioration
of living standards, a deteriorating infrastructure, high inflation, and a
loss of investor confidence.
4.    Concerned about the lack of growth in highly indebted developing
countries the then Secretary of the US Treasury, Mr. James Baker, in late 1985
proposed a new plan which required commercial banks to lend up to $20 billion
of new money and higher levels of multilateral lending in exchange for a
comprehensive package of structural reforms in eligible debtor countries.
New financial resources were needed to bridge the gap between the short term
costs and long term benefits of adjustment. Domestic conditions in Mexico had
severely deteriorated as a consequence of the large transfer to foreign
creditors but also the 1985 earthquake in Mexico City and the sharp decline in
international oil prices in 1986. In the context of the Baker Plan the IMF
and World Bank supported Mexico with $1.7 billion and $2.3 billion of new
6/ See World Bank Debt Tables, World Bank, 1991.



- 3 -
money, respectively, to be disbursed over 1986-87, conditional on commercial
banks providing $6 billion of new money. The 1986-87 package of loans also
included contingency financing by both the IMF and commercial banks and the
rescheduling of $52.3 billion of commercial loans at lower spreads over LIBOR
(Annex 1).
5.    In late 1986 a new stage of Mexico's debt strategy took hold: market-
based debt reduction schemes began to complement the traditional debt
resceduling and new money approaches. Mexico started to take advantage of the
deep discount at which its sovereign debt was trading in secondary debt
markets, reflecting Mexico's inability to fully service its debt in the
absence of involuntary debt reschedulings and new borrowings. About $3.6
billion of foreign public debt was cancelled through a debt-equity swap
program between June 1986 and April 1988. However, the program was
discontinued in April 1987 to avoid the adverse fiscal and potentially
inflationary impact of debt-equity swaps (the swap amounts to a pre-payment of
public debt at a discount). After the debt-equity swap program was
discontinued secondary market discounts skyrocketed, and prompted a rush to
repurchase private debt. In a relatively brief period about $3 billion of
private debt was prepaid at a heavy discount ranging from 30Z to 55Z. The
resulting demand for foreign exchange was one of the factors contributing to
the speculative run on the peso in late 1987. 7/ In 1988 the government
broadened its commercial debt reduction strategy through a collateralized debt
exchange organized by the Morgan bank. The Morgan deal was concluded in
February 1988. The Mexican government exchanged, through an auction system,
$3.7 billion of existing commercial debt (bids submitted amounted to $6.7
billion) for new 20 year bonds carrying a face value of $2.6 billion dollar
with its principal secured with zero-coupon US Treasury bonds. Although the
spread over LIBOR of the new bonds was twice as high as on the existing debt
the discount implied $1.5 billion dollar in interest savings over the life of
the bonds (assuming full debt service in the absence of the deal). 11 While
the 1988 debt exchange did not reduce Mexico's debt service obligations
substantially it set the precedent for the 1989-90 debt restructuring under
the Brady initiative.
C. Stabilization and Structural Reform: Preconditions of the 1989-90
Debt Restructuring.
6.    Towards the second half of the 1980s a series of measures were taken to
reverse Mexico's economic decline. Their most important goals were:
macroeconomic stability and a rationalized set of incentives for private
sector investment. In each of these areas (discussed respectively in Annexes
2 and 3) the Mexican Government has achieved notable progress. Progress in
7/ See Allen Sanguines, "Managing Mexico's External Debt: the Contribution of
Debt Reduction Schemes", January 1989, LAC Discussion Paper, World Bank.
8/ See Sanguines (previous footnote) and Jose Angel Gurria, "La Politica de
Deuda Externa de Mexico, 1982-1990", Segundo Seminario para Administradores de
Deuda Externa, 1991, World Bank.



these fronts, in turn, was required to negotiate a credible financing plan
with foreign commercial creditors from a strong bargaining position and to be
able to reap the benefits derived from the debt deal thereafter.
7.    In late 1987 the Government announced and begun implementing the
"Economic Solidarity Pact" (Pacto), an agreement between business, labor, and
government which called for accelerated structural reform, further tightening
of fiscal and monetary policy, a freeze of minimum wages and of basic public
and private sector prices, and, the cornerstone of the "Pacto", a freeze of
the nominal exchange rate against the U.S. dollar. The Pacto was renewed,
with important modifications, by the new Mexican Administration under the name
of "PECE" (Pact for Stabilization and Growth). Under the PECE and its
succesive renewals (the latest one in November 1991) public tariffs, minimum
wages were revised, controlled prices were revised and most were de facto
liberalized, and a daily adjustment of the peso exchange rate against the U.S.
dollar was introduced (one peso a day in 1989 which gradually was reduced to
20 centavos a day in 1992). Contractual wages in the private sector were
liberalized as early as 1989.
8.    On almost every target that is under direct or indirect governmental
control, performance under the "PECE" has been exemplary, in some instances
going far beyond what was originally planned. Inflation dropped from 159% in
1987 to an average of 23% in 1989-91. At the same time, the economy has shown
encouraging signs of economic recovery, led by a strong resurgence of private
investment and to a lesser extent private consumption. Output growth was 3.2%
in 1989, 3.9% in 1990 and is estimated around 3.6% for 1991. Confidence in
the economy was boosted by overall macroeconomic policy consistency and an
array of structural reforms including trade, financial and fiscal reforms, the
1990 debt agreement described in this report, the privatization of the
telephone and steel companies and commercial banks (whose substantial proceeds
were allocated mainly to domestic debt reduction in 1991) and, more recently,
advanced discussions on a North America Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and the
flexibilization of the collective rural land tenure system ("ejido"). NAFTA
and, associated with it, a likely profound transformation of the agricultural
system, is crucial both because it would deepen the structural reform process
and make it more irreversible. Reflecting improved confidence in the economy
nominal interest rates have declined to record low levels for the last 15
years and Mexico received massive private capital inflows, on average $9
billion in 1989-90 and an estimated $17 billion in 1991. The current account
balance has deteriorated since 1988 but this is largely due to higher imports
caused by accelerating private sector investment and, to a lesser degree,
lower private saving. In short, while structural adjustment is by no means
complete, the progress which has already been achieved augurs well for a
period of sustained growth.
9.    It is likely that without the deep and widespread structural adjustment
measures in place commercial banks would not have embarked on concerted debt
and debt service reduction (DDSR) operations. By making the adjustment
upfront and by sustaining and strengthening it even under the most adverse
circumstances Mexico signalled to its creditors a convincing commitment to
reform.



3. Objectives: Restructuring Debt to Support Sustainable Economic Growth
A. External and Public Finance Requirements
10.   Despite the far reaching reforms implemented in Mexico, international
capital markets were not prepared to provide the resources needed to bridge
the period between the current costs and the future benefits of the reform
program. This was reflected in a projected $23.5 billion financing gap over
the 1989-94 period, based on existing debt commitments, on a projected non-
interest current account surplus of 2.4% of GDP consistent with 4% GDP growth
(Annex 4 and President's Report and Recommendation for the Loan Report No. P-
5235-ME). This included amortization on commercially held debt ($12.7
billion). Therefore, the corresponding net financing (assuming existing
commercial debt was rolled over) required from debt service reduction, new
money and return of Mexican flight capital was $10.8 billion.
11.   Since more than 90% of Mexico's US$100.8 billion foreign debt
outstanding at the end of 1988 was public or publicly-guaranteed, pressures
for reaching a satisfactory agreement with foreign creditors were at least as
pressing for public finances as for the country. Foreign public interest
payments averaged around 4Z of GDP in 1986-89. High and volatile external
transfers generated uncertainty about whether the future transfer burden could
be met. This generated increased uncertainty about future exchange rate
developments which, in turn, was translated into high domestic interest rates
on domestic debt. "Ex post" real interest rates were almost 50% in the weeks
before the debt accord was reached and, despite a 20 percentage points drop
following its announcement, they averaged 30% in real terms during 1989. With
domestic public debt at approximately 20% of GDP in 1989 this implied that the
government needed more than 6% of GDP in revenues for domestic debt service
alone. Thus, even the unprecedently large positive primary fiscal balance
attained in 1989 fell short of real domestic and foreign interest payments; as
a consequence, in 1989 there was an operational (inflation-adjusted) fiscal
deficit of close to 2% of GDP.
12.   In this context, a foreign debt accord was necessary not just to reduce
the transfer to foreign creditors but also to induce a reduction of domestic
interest rates. The latter could occur if the debt accord produced a general
increase in private sector confidence and reduced devaluation expectations and
exchange rate uncertainty by lowering, smoothing and making more predictable
the required transfer to foreign creditors. But for such expectational
factors to came into play, the deal needed to be of a medium-term nature.
Hence the imperative was not only to reach a solution, but a solution that
would likely forestall debt problems for the foreseeable future. With such a
comprehensive solution, the domestic impact of removal of the uncertainty
related to external debt is likely to be as important as the direct effects of
any debt relief granted.



- 6-
B.    The Case for Debt Relief
13.   Because of the high domestic costs of continuing uncertainty
international support could make a substantial difference only if it was based
on an unequivocal, medium-term commitment by the foreign creditors.
Commercial debt relief offered the most certain way to reduce not only current
debt service flows but also future net transfers for a long time to come,
i.e., it not only freed resources for investment but it also improved
incentives for domestic investment (as future transfers to creditors acted
like a tax on future output thus encouraging capital flight). Since most
foreign debt was public, debt relief would simultaneously bring fiscal relief.
It thus created headroom for reversing a declining trend in public investment
and, associated with it, a deterioration of social and physical
infrastructure. However, at least as important was the potential impact of
the DDSR agreement on foreign exchange markets: by making the external
transfer smaller, smoother and more predictable it could lead to greater
stability in foreign exchange markets and, possibly, other dimensions of
economic policy. There were additional arguments, both political and
economic, which stressed the need for debt relief, as opposed to the provision
of new money only. In terms of Mexico's domestic politics, Mexicans had made
such enormous adjustments and accepted such a large reduction in living
standards, that any package without a visible contribution by external
creditors would have not been acceptable domestically. Another economic
argument for debt relief was related to the likely time horizon of new money
commitments in the current international environment. Such commitments were
unlikely to go beyond three or four years, possibly not enough to see a
process of economic growth firmly established.
C. Obiectives
14.   The conclusion from the above analysis is clear: Mexico needed external
debt relief. The Government had the structural policies and domestic fiscal
measures in place for sustainable economic growth to take off. What was
missing was a sufficiently long period during which external creditors would
allow this inherently sound economic program to get off the ground. It was
also clear that DDSR was the best means to support the Government's adjustment
program, further structural reforms and the resumption of sustained economic
growth. By providing funds for enhancement of interest of the new bonds
issued in exchange for old commercial debt the Interest Support Loan supported
the DDSR plan of the Government of Mexico.
4. Prolect Description and Implementation: The Debt Agreement
A.    Debt Negotiations: Role of Creditor Governments
15.   The perception that debt reduction should become part of a credible and
successful debt restructuring of highly indebted countries was shared in early
1989 by creditor governments, particularly, the US government.  In March 1989
the U.S. Treasury Secretary, Mr. Nicholas Brady, officially endorsed this



-7-
view. In early April the Brady Initiative received support from the Group of
Seven and twenty highly indebted countries were initially included in the list
of eligible countries. The Brady Initiative went beyond formalizing market-
based reduction schemes already in place. It called for a concerted effort by
creditor governments to get commercial banks involved in debt reduction and/or
new money in countries that have already shown a commitment to adjust. In
exchange creditor governments commited resources, through international
financial institutions, to enhance new debt and introduced regulatory and tax
incentives to induce banks to participate.
16.   Even before the Brady announcement Mexico sought agreements with the IMF
and, later on, the World Bank and the Government of Japan about a major
package of support measures. In May 1989, Mexico and the IMP reached
agreement on an Extended Fund Facility (EFF) for SDR 2.8 billion (about $4.1
billion) covering three years and an optional fourth one. At around the same
time, the World Bank and Mexico successfully concluded extensive negotiations
covering three Sectoral Adjustment Loans for $0.5 billion each, plus a
commitment by the World Bank to a lending program of about $2 billion per year
for the period 1990-92. Both the IMF and the World Bank supported Mexico's
claim that a reduction in the debt burden was called for in one form or
another if growth was to recover in Mexico.
17.   Prior to any negotiations with commercial creditors, Mexico sought to
reduce net transfers to its official creditors, and in addition, sought their
support for the principles underlying subsequent negotiations with commercial
creditors. An agreement was reached with the Paris Club, representing
creditor Governments, covering $2.6 billion of official principal and interest
payments falling due in the period 6/89-5/92. All amortization over the three
year period was rescheduled over ten years with 6 years grace. Also
rescheduled were 100% of interest payments due in the first year, 90% of
interest payments in the second, and 80% of interest payments due in the
third. Access to import financing of up to $2 billion per annum was also
secured.
18.   Negotiations with commercial banks were extraordinarily complicated
right from the outset. One complicating factor was the number of banks
involved (more than 600). This problem was dealt with through the formation
of a Bank Advisory Committee with representatives of some 15 creditor banks.
Negotiations between Mexico and the Bank Advisory Committee began in New York
in early April, 1989. The initial skirmishing was about Mexico's financing
needs for growth to recover, in which both the World Bank and the IMF played
an advisory role.  When the negotiations moved on to debt relief, initial
positions were far apart, with Mexico asking for 55% debt relief and the
committee offering only 15%. Although various counterproposals between Mexico
and the commercial banks brought the parties somewhat closer, negotiations in
New York seemed to stall at the beginning of summer and were escalated to a
higher level.  The final negotiations, in Washington DC, involved the Mexican
Minister of Finance and Public Credit, Mr. Aspe, the U.S. Treasury Secretary,
Mr. Brady, the chairmen of the most important banks involved, and senior
officials of the World Bank and the IMF. This phase was successfully
concluded with the announcement of an agreement in principle on July 23, 1989
(Section C and Annex 6).



- 8 -
19.   After the Brady Initiative was launched the IMF and the World Bank moved
quickly to provide support to Mexico for specific debt and debt service
reduction (DDSR) operations. In January, 1990 the IMF allowed set asides of
30Z of quota for debt reduction operations. On January 29, 1990 the Executive
Board of the Fund approved an augmentation of the EFF by the equivalent of 40%
of quota (SDR 466 million) for interest support in connection with DDSR
operations. In June 13, 1989 the World Bank agreed to parallel enhancement
support. And in November 9, 1989 the Government of Japan made available to
Mexico $2.05 billion through the Exim Bank of Japan. These funds would
directly or indirectly facilitate the use of freed reserves for credit
enhancement. Of the total Japanese contribution, $1.0 billion equivalent was
to be lent to Mexico through parallel lending with IMF's EFF, $1.05 billion
through cofinancing with World Bank (including $150 million of cofinancing for
an environmental project which materialized after the debt deal). Some $1.4
billion of the total Japanese contribution was to be disbursed at the time of
implementation of the DDSR agreement.
20.   However, because Mexico was the first country to benefit from the Brady
initiative, many new procedures and approaches had to be developed, e.g. the
establishment of the escrow accounts (to guarantee interest) and the purchases
of zero-coupon bonds (to collateralize the principal) in several currencies.
The bondholders appointed the Federal Reserve Bank of New York as collateral
agent to hold the collateral for discount and par bonds denominated in any of
the eligible currencies. The collateral agent opened the collateral accounts
where cash and securities for the interest guarantees were deposited.
Interest earned on these funds are released to the Government of Mexico. The
eligible currencies were U.S. dollars, Japanese yen, Dutch florins, Italian
lire, German DM, Swiss francs and French francs. Fixed interest rates in the
par bond option varied according to the currency of denomination: 6.25% for
the dollar, 3.81% for the yen, 5.01% for the DM, 6.63% for the French franc,
10.75% for the Italian lire, 3.75% for the Swiss franc and 5.31% for the Dutch
florin. Separate collateral accounts were opened for discount and par bonds
denominated in each currency and in some cases where more than one series were
offered, e.g. dollar denominated par and discount bonds, a corresponding
number of collateral accounts were opened. !1
21.   As a result of the complexities involved in this first time operation,
the final agreement was only reached in February 4, 1990 and the debt exchange
finally materialized on March 28 1990. Between July 1989 and February 1990
commercial debt eligible for debt reduction dropped from about $52 billion to
about $48 billion. This was due to debt prepayments and amortizations of
goverDnment guaranteed private debt, debt equity swaps and cross-currency
fluctuations.
22.   Regulatory, tax and accounting treatments of sovereign debt were altered
in several creditor countries in response to the introduction of new
instruments (the collateralized bonds) and the change in debt strategy in
general. The general outcome of the changes was to make it easier for
9/ More details are provided in the President's Report and Recommendation of
the Interest Support Loan (paras. 40-44 and 75-80).



-9-
commercial banks to participate in DDSR options. In the US, for example,
accounting rules were changed such that under certain conditions the cost of
DDSR options (for accounting purposes) was allowed to be spread over the
lifetime of the bond. In the UK, the Bank of England ruled that the discount
bonds will initially not require any additional reserve provisioning, but the
par bonds will require the same level of provisions as the pre-deal Mexico
debt. New money required in the UK the same amount of provisions as existing
credits. In France, both bonds were exempted from the normally unfavorable
treatment applied to losses on securities. Most other OECD countries also
enacted changes which made it relatively more attractive for banks to choose
DDSR options.
23.   Political pressures from creditor countries on commercial banks were a
particularly important factor in preventing free-riders, i.e., banks that do
not participate in the DDSR agreement but nevertheless expect to benefit from
it (e.g., if the secondary market price increases), and in concluding the deal
relatively quickly.
B.    World Bank Contribution: the Interest Support Loan
24.   Since 1986 the Bank has made major contributions to policy reform in
Mexico providing support to the maintenance of a consistent macroeconomic
framework and deepening structural reforms aimed at creating the preconditions
for economic recovery. Under the agreement signed with Mexico for the
Interest Support Loan (Annex 5) the Bank helped Mexico through measures that
explicitly support debt and debt service reduction. The new money was
provided through a $1.26 billion loan for financing collateral in respect of
interest payments on discount and par bonds to be issued by Mexico for
reducing commercial bank debt and debt service. In addition, the World Bank
provided $750 million of set asides from existing World Bank loans to be used
for reducing the stock of commercial bank debt of Mexico. The $750 million of
set asides amounted to 25% of all adjustment and hybrid loans the Bank made to
Mexico in the three-year period FY89-91. The $1.26 billion interest support
operation accounted for 22% of the $5.8 billion Bank's lending program for
Mexico in FY89-91.
25.   The World Bank also played an advisory role to Mexico on the design and
formulation of the options in the DDSR plan. In particular, World Bank staff
helped Mexican authorities to evaluate debt-debt service relief implied by the
different options in the menu offered to commercial banks including the
pricing of the oil recapture clause. This analysis played an important role
in assessing how the DDSR plan could help to meet Mexico's medium-term
external financial requirements. The World Bank also advised the Government
of Mexico during negotiations with the Commercial Bank Advisory Comittee,
initially favoring a more demanding posture vis a vis commercial banks than
the one Mexico finally took. / In particular, World Bank's projections of
10/ EXIM Review, "Mexico - Economic Reform and Development Strategy", Special
Issue, Fall 1991; Research Institute of Overseas Investment, The Export-Import
Bank of Japan.



- 10 -
Mexico's external financial needs played an important role in validating
Mexico's request for debt-debt service relief during negotiations with the
Commercial Bank Advisory Comittee.
26.   The Interest Support Loan was the first operation of its kind in the
World Bank. New procedures had to be developed for its implementation. This
included substantial legal ground work. The loan was a one shot operation
where the single disbursement was an advance to purchase collateral (rather
than a reimbursement for project-related expenses or imports incurred prior to
the disbursement). Unlike all previous World Bank loans which were disbursed
directly to the borrower, the Interest Support Loan was disbursed to a third
party, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the collateral agent).LII In
view of these unique features new legal covenants and procedures had to be
prepared to ensure that the loan financed the purchase of collateral. Legal
arrangements ensured that the Bank reserved the right to require prepayment of
the loan if such proceeds were not used to achieve debt-debt service reduction
or if, having the resources been allocated to debt-debt service reduction, the
collateral was released, e.g., assuming Mexico cancells its collateralized
debt. In its Interest Support Loan to Mexico the IMF followed closely World
Bank's legal procedures.
27.   To implement Mexico's credit enhancement scheme for the discount and par
bonds, it was necessary for the Government to obtain limited waivers of the
restrictions against giving security on other external debt -- the negative
pledge restrictions -- contained in agreements that Mexico has entered into
with the Bank, IDB and other external creditors including the commercial
banks. The World Bank, as well as the IDB and other external creditors, did
consent to the waiver of the negative pledge restriction allowing the
government to purchase collateral up to $7.5 billion for the principal and
interest payments on the discount and par bonds. Waiver of the negative
pledge restriction by the World Bank was not problematic in the sense that the
Interest Support Loan was specifically aimed at giving security on external
debt in order to achieve debt-debt service reduction. The World Bank, though,
played a key role in obtaining a waiver of the negative pledge from the IDB.
It was also necessary as part of the debt deal to restructure the World Bank's
$750 million guarantees under "Facility 2" and "Facility 3" of the 1987 Multi-
Facility Agreement which the Bank did (Annex 6).
28.   Finally, unlike in all other adjustment loans, the Bank did not impose
any upfront conditionality as a condition for effectiveness and disbursement
of the Interest Support Loan. There were good reasons for this, though.
First, and most important, the DDSR agreement was per se a major structural
reform. Second, in addition to the conditionality set by the IMF's EFF, there
was substantial second tranche conditionality set by the World Bank on several
11/ Disbursement was made into a specially created account in two tranches
the same day.



- 11 -
adjustment loans. -L/ Third, in the two years preceding the implementation
of the DDSR agreement Mexico had an excellent track record on policy reform
and on achieving macroeconomic policy targets. In particular, financial and
trade liberalization went faster than scheduled under conditionality agreed
upon World Bank adjustment loans, and fiscal targets were higher than planned
under the IMP's EFF in 1989. The primary fiscal balance reached an
unprecedented surplus equivalent to on average 8.1% of GDP over 1988-89. All
this led to a strong perception that Mexico was committed to adjustment and
reform, which was validated soon after the implementation of the DDSR plan by
the announcement of key structural reforms such as: the privatization of
commercial banks; the North-American Free Trade Agreement; and the creation of
an oil contingency fund. With the benefit of hindsight it was correct not to
impose on Mexico extra conditionality.
C.    Terms of the Agreement -L"
29.   On September 15, 1989, the Government of Mexico and the Bank Advisory
Committee representing the commercial bank creditors reached agreement on a
financing package covering the period 1989-92, restructuring approximately $48
billion of Mexico's external debt. The agreement, finally signed in February
4, 1990, consisted of a menu of financing options which included two deLc and
debt service reduction facilities and four new money facilities. The debt and
debt service reduction facilities consisted of exit bonds with the principal
securitized by zero-coupon US Treasury bonds (or equivalent bonds depending on
the currency of denomination of the bond) with a maturity date matching that
of the Mexican bonds. All bonds would be repaid in a single installment on
December 31, 2019. In addition, interest payments would be partly secured by
a pledge of cash or permitted investments in the relevant currencies for an
amount equal to 18 months of interest payments due. 14/ Both par and
discount bonds were offered in the menu; discount bonds carried a 35%
discount. In the case of the par bond the interest rate was fixed at 6.25%
(and equivalent below-market fixed interest rates if creditors chose other
currency than the dollar); while in the case of the discount bonds the
12/ These loans and the corresponding set asides to finance the DDSR plan
were: the Fertilizer Sector Loan (Loan 2919-ME), $150 million of set asides;
the Agricultural Sector Loan (Loan 2918-ME), $175 million of set asides; the
Steel Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 2916-ME), $50 million of set asides; the
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 3085-ME), $125 million of set asides;
the Public Enterpriseo Reform Loan (Loan 3086-ME), $125 million of set asides;
and the Industrial Sector Policy Loan (Loan 3087-ME), $125 million of set
asides.
13/ The summary terms of the financing options, including debt-equity
conversion rights and the recapture clause, offered by Mexico to its
commercial bank creditors under the 1989-92 Financing Package are described in
greater detail in Annex 6.
14/ That is, covering three semi-annual interest payments.



- 12 -
interest rate was set at US dollar LIBOR (6 months) plus a 13/16 spread (and
equivalent rates for other currencies of denomination).
30.   As mentioned, the securities and cash pledged as collateral are held in
special collateral accounts managed by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
Creditors' debt service would be paid out of these collateral accounts in case
the Government failed to make interest payments for longer than 30 days, for
as long as there are funds in the accounts. To enable establishment of the
special collateral accounts, waivers of the negative pledge restrictions were
necessary and have been received, apart from the World Bank, from Mexico's
commercial bank creditors, the Japan Exim Bank and the IDB.
31.   Under the 1989 agreement Mexico or any Mexican governmental agency were
allowed to purchase discount and par bonds at any time by tender or in the
open market at any price. Upon cancellation of the bonds redeemed or
purchased, the pro-rata amount of the principal and interest collateral for
such bonds would be released to Mexico. Banks that have chosen discount or
par bonds were eligible to recover some of the money given up through a
"recapture clause". Under this clause, beginning July 1996, 30% of the
additional oil revenues Mexico gets if the price of oil rises above $14 per
barrel (to be adjusted for US inflation), will accrue to the banks that have
granted debt and debt service relief. The total amount to be recaptured,
however, would not exceed in any year 3Z of the nominal value of the debt
exchanged. Both payments and cap are scaled back by the percentage of the
total debt committed to the two debt relief options.
32.   Lenders who did not commit to the par or discount bonds had to
reschedule existing debt and lend an additional 25% of that amount over the
1989-92 period, the so called new money commitment. Under the new money
commitment, creditors had several options: new money, new bonds, an on lending
facility and a trade credit facility. The new money option carried a 15 year
maturity and 7 years grace and had to be disbursed in six semi-annual
tranches. The first tranche permitted the disbursement of 40% of the loans
and each subsequent tranche permitted the withdrawal of 12%. The interest
rate applied was either of (a) 13/16% over LIBOR, or (b) 13/16% over the three
months certificate of deposit rate or (c) a fixed rate calculated to provide a
comparable yield to maturity as the above floating rate options. Creditors
could also elect to purchase new money bonds in an amount up to 50% of its new
money commitment, although not more than $500 million of new money bonds could
be issued in total. The terms of the new bond were similar to the new money
option. Up to a limit of 20% of its new money commitment creditors could
elect to make advances to a trust established by Mexico for the purpose of
onlending funds to Mexican public sector borrowers with the guarantee of the
United Mexican States. And up to a limit of 202 of its new money commitment
creditors could elect to make advances to a trust established by Mexico for
the purpose of financing certain eligible trade credits. The onlending and
trade credit facilities carried similar terms as the new money and new bond
options.
33.   Banks participating in the 1989-92 financing package had access to a
debt/equity program with an authorized ceiling of $3.5 billion. This program
was limited to public sector companies that are being privatized and to



- 13 -
qualified infrastructure projects. The entire debt-equity swap quota was
over-suscribed in two auctions, at an average price of close to 48 cents per
dollar, but as the secondary market price increased above that level towards
1991 most of the conversion rights (to perform debt-equity swaps) acquired in
the auction were not exercised.
D.    Outcome
34. As a result of the debt agreement a total of $48231 million of
commercial bank debt was restructured. Of this 46.5% was committed to the par
bond, 42.59% to the discount bond and 10.91% to the new money option and
uncommitted money ($693 million of Facilities 2 and 3). This breakup includes
$2882.9 million of debt held by Mexican banks that chose exclusively the new
money option, $690.9 million, and the discount bond option, $2192 million.
Excluding Mexican creditors a total of $45348 million of commercial bank debt
was restructured of which $22427.4 million was committed to the par bond,
$18349.6 million to the discount bond and $4571.1 million to the new money
option and uncommitted money. A total of $7122 million was needed to secure
the DDSR instruments (i.e., purchase collateral for debt enhancement)
subscribed by Mexico's commercial creditors of which $3401 million secured the
principal and $3721 secured interest payments including $23.9 million for
existing bonds which, due to the "pari passu" clause, also had to be
securitized (Table 1). The bonds received by Mexican commercial banks were
not enhanced, i.e., were not collateralized.
35. The commitments and timing of the various sources of enhancements are
shown in Table 2 below. The Table outlines which of the various commitments
were available in March 1990 and the extent to which bridging facilities were
needed. Collateralization of principal through purchase of zero coupon bonds
required availability of the full amount of enhancement money on or prior to
the time when the bonds were issued. At the time the deal was signed
available enhancement funds did not cover the entire value of the interest
guarantees. However, collateral investments (for the interest guarantees)
were such that with their capitalized interest they did cover 18 months of
interest guarantees at the time when interest payments were due. 15/
15/ In the case of par bonds, where the interest to be guaranteed is constant,
say x, the New York Federal Reserve Bank authorizes Mexico to invest as
interest collateral x-i where i is the interest that Mexico can obtain in the
market. Thus, at the end of the period an amount x of funds is available to
guarantee interest. At the end of the period, assuming that market interest
rates do not change, Mexico can withdraw i and reinvest x-i to secure the
interest on the bonds. Clearly, if market interest rates increase (drop)
Mexico can withdraw more (less) than i since a smaller (larger) investment
will suffice (be required) to guarantee x at the end of the period. In the
case of discount bonds, which carry LIBOR plus 13/16, a similar procedure is
followed except that the interest guaranteed x is no longer constant. Thus,
if, for example, x increases (due to an increase in LIBOR) there is a risk
that even though Mexico can now obtain a higher interest in the market this
may not suffice to cover the entire guarantee. In this case the operational



- 14 -
TABLE 1: OUTCOME OF THE DEBT AGREEMENT ($ million)
I. MIX OF OPTIONS CHOSEN BY COMMERCIAL BANKS
Options                  Base                          Post-deal
New Money                5262.0                        5262.0
Discount Bond           20541.6                       13352.0
Par Bond                22427.4                      22427.4
Total                   48231.0                      41041.4
II. ENHANCEMENT FUNDS: USES 2/
Principal            Interest             Total
Guarantee            Guarantee
Discount Bond        1622.2               1666.9               3289.1
Par Bond            1778.6               2030.4                3809.0
Other Bonds                                 23.9                 23.9
Total               3400.8               3721.3                7122.1
Note:  1/ Includes Mexican creditors.
2/ Debt held by Mexican banks is not included in the collateral.
Corresponds to the purchase cost of collateral investments.
36.   To meet the enhancement requirements by February/March 1990, the Bank,
the Export-Import Bank of Japan 6/ and the IMF commited themselves to
frontload their contributions to the extent possible, i.e., to disburse
upfront as much as they could out of their original loan commitments. Table 2
guidelines set under the Collateral Pledge Agreement allow Mexico to
temporarily reduce the number of months of guaranteed interest below 18
months.
16/ EXIM Bank loans for cofinancing are not directly available for credit
enhancement purposes.



- 15 -
shows the degree to which front loading by each party was feasible. As the
frontloading obtained provided only US$6.03 billion by the target date,
available funds fell short of the required US$7.12 billion. The Government
therefore approached a group of comnercial banks which provided a credit line
of US$1.09 billion to fill the gap. As disbursements from the IMF and Japan
became available the credit line was gradually being cancelled.
TABLE 2: AVAILABILITY OF ENHANCEMENT MONEYS ($ millions)
IMF         IBRD         Mexico       Japan
Total
Available March 1990
Interest support         606          1260
Scheduled Set Asides  (SDR 272         375
million)
Advancing 1990 IMF Set
Asides to March 90    (SDR 209.8
million)
Advancing a Portion of
IBRD 1990 Set Asides
to March 90                           375
Japanese Parallel financing
and Cofinancing                                               1380.21/
Total                    1268.3       2010         1373.6      1380.2
6032.1
Enhancements
available later           420.2                                669.8          1090
Total Enhancements       1688.5       2010         1373.6      2050
7122.1
Available
Note: Japanese money includes cofinancing for $0.9 billion (with World Bank
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, Public Enterprise Reform Loan
and Industrial Policy Loan), $1 billion parallel financing with IMF's
EFF, and cofinancing for $150 million (with a World Bank environment
project which materialized after the deal).
37.   Mexico serviced the interest on its existing loans on their contractual
terms until the implementation of the 1989-92 financing agreement. However,
the terms of the agreement were implemented with retroactive effect from July
1, 1989. This clause was introduced to eliminate any possible perverse
incentive on the part of the banks to delay the signing of the agreement. As
a result, in March 1990 Mexico received a $1.13 billion back payment from
commercial banks.  For the new money commitments, the retroactive clause
implied that at the time of the signing, participating banks disbursed
immediately all the installments due until that time, subject to the



- 16 -
satisfaction of certain conditions precedent (which included the issuance of
the discount and par bonds).
38.   As shown in Section 5, all expectations about the loan's benefits at the
time it was approved (as stated in the President's Report) were met. In
particular, expectations about the impact of the debt agreement on economic
growth were fulfilled, i.e., the materiality test was satisfied. It is
difficult to ascertain whether the design of the DDSR agreement could have
been improved upon to increase potential benefits and/or reduce risks.
However, as shown in Section 5, the DDSR achieved efficiently Mexico's debt
relief objective. Given the resources available for debt enhancement and
given that commercial banks would not enter into an agreement in which they
would end up worse off, Mexico obtained as much debt relief as it could have
expected. More debt relief would have required either more official financial
support and/or a possible net loss (in market value terms) to the commercial
banks.
E.    Special Features: Novation, Free Riding and Recapture Clause
39.   Commercial banks participating were explicitly denied the option to just
hold on to their claims; in a process called "novation", existing debt
contracts were rewritten such that the previous agreements, both between the
debtor and the creditors and among creditors, were no longer binding. This
implied that all eligible debt was to be exchanged for one of the new debt
instruments created under the agreement.17/ Furthermore, to become
effective, banks holding at least 90% of the debt eligible for the exchange
had to sign up. In the event of a shortfall, this threshold could be lowered
to 80% if 50% of the creditor banks agreed to it. These two arrangements were
designed to avoid a small minority of banks exercising an effective veto right
and were quite effective: free-riding did not occur.
40.   Banks choosing the debt relief options also obtained a "recapture
clause" (see para. 28). la/ The advantage of this contingent element is not
17/ The major implication of this novation is that debt which is exchanged
into the new instruments (including some of the new money provided) would no
longer be subject to the sharing clauses and non-participating creditors would
not be able to share equally in payments made by Mexico on its restructured
debt. For instance, in case Mexico would pay in full on the new instruments,
but would not pay in full on debt which was not exchanged, the holders of the
non-exchanged debt would not be able to share in the payments the holders of
the new instruments receive. The novation was possible because of legal
flexibility obtained in the previous rescheduling limiting the need for
unanimous waivers. The exact legal status of this novation is not completely
clear and its effectiveness (in the US) relies in part on a public policy
statement sanctioning the agreement.
18/Partially because regulations in the US prevented direct issue of
commodity-indexed instruments, symmetric contingency (downside as well as
upside) was not achieved. A contingent oil financing facility in the case of



-17 -
only an improved international allocation of risk, but also a reduction in the
possibility of a default by Mexico--with all its associated efficiency costs--
because payment obligations are moved from bad states of nature to good states
of nature. This added feature allowed for a larger amount of debt relief as
banks obtained in exchange for their existing claims a more valuable new
claim.
5. Results
I. Nominal Debt Relief
41.   How much cash-flow/interest relief has Mexico obtained?  How efficiently
were the enhancement resources used in obtaining debt relief? Answering these
questions requires explicit assumptions about financing under alternative
scenarios (counterfactuals) and about the level of additionality of DDSR
financing obtained by Mexico. First, an assessment of debt relief should be
based on a realistic counterfactual that takes into account the level of debt
service refinancing which Mexico could have got without the Brady deal. Two
alternatives are considered: i) refinancing of principal only; and ii)
refinancing of principal and part of the interest based on historic patterns
of debt rescheduling. More specifically, for ii) it was assumed that in 1990-
2000 one hundred percent of the principal and all interest obligations in
excess of the equivalent of 6.626% of the outstanding debt at the beginning of
each year were refinanced (6.626% being the average net transfer debt ratio
during 1983-88) 19', and that new loans only refinanced principal thereafter,
i.e., after the year 2000. Second, DDSR operations usually require the front
loading of resources, in the form of cash or collateral. This often implies a
sacrifice from countries which are liquidity constrained and/or have good
investment opportunities, as debtor countries usually are, unless they get
additional resources for DDSR operations. Of the $5.8 billion of funds that
Mexico received for DDSR only $4 billion was additional, i.e., $1.8 billion
was going to become available even if Mexico didn't embark on DDSR.
Additional resources came from the interest support loans given by the Bank
and the IMF, respectively $1.26 billion and $0.66 billion, and the Japanese
contribution, $2.05 billion.
a decline in the price of oil was sought from a small group of commercial
banks, but never materialized.
19/ 1989 was excluded because the low level of refinancing that year (there
were net amortizations of commercial bank debt in fact) was due to the
unexpected delay in the implementation of the Brady deal, which was initially
targeted for 1989.



- 18 -
A. Short- and Medium-Term Cash-Flow Relief
42.   What was the impact of the deal on interest and cash-flow relief
obtained by Mcxico? Table 3 illustrates how interest and cash-flow relief is
projected to evolve during the 1990s. 20J Mexico's annual interest relief
brought about by the debt deal ranges between $1.1-$1.5 billion over 1990-95
depending on the counterfactual level of debt service refinancing
(alternatives i) and ii) respectively, see previous paragraph). Cash-flow
relief, recalling that only about $4 billion of the enhancement resources was
additional, averages $1 billion under alternative i) and about zero under
alternative ii) over the 1990-95 period. The fact that there is on average no
medium-term cash-flow relief under alternative ii) stems from the assumption
that in the absence of the Brady deal all the principal and a substantial part
of the interest was going to be refinanced in any case.
TABLE 3: INTEREST AND CASH-FLOW RELIEF
($ million)
A. Interest Relief
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1990-95         2000
Alternative i)   1193   1141   1090   1012    960    908         1051        779
Alternative ii)  1270   1365   1449   1489   1544   1588         1451       1880
B. Cash-Flow Relief
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1990-95         2000
Alternative i)   -439   1545   1465   1110   1055   1000         956         862
Alternative ii) -1914    263    372    249    372    490         -28         949
Note:  Alternative i) refers to 100% refinancing of principal only;
alternative ii) refers to 100% refinancing of principal and interest
obligations in excess of 6.626% of the outstanding debt until the year
2000, and 1002 refinancing of principal only beyond the year 2000.
20/ Cash-flow relief is defined as: the difference between the old and new
debt service, plus the initial inflow of additional money for purchase of
collateral, lese interest paid on the additional money, less the initial
outflow for the collateral investment, plus interest received on the
collateral for interest enhancement.



- 19 -
B. Long-Term Debt Relief
43.   In a credit constrained economy interest and near-term cash-flow relief
are a relevant measure of the deal's success. However, since the critical
difference between DDSR operations and traditional debt reschedulings with new
money emerges over the long term, a measure of long-term debt relief is also
relevant. Table 4 summarizes the element of long-term debt relief embedded in
each of the three options the commercial banks have chosen taking alternative
i) as the counterfactual, i.e., full principal refinancing in the absence of
the debt deal. Debt relief is defined as the reduction in the discounted
value of debt service as a percentage of the face value of the outstanding
debt. In addition, the Table evaluates the impact of the actual subscription
(excluding Mexican creditors), a blend of 49.46% par bonds (IR), 40.46%
discount bonds (PR), and 10.08% new money (NM) and presents the cases with and
without the oil recapture clause.
Table 4: DEBT RELIEF IMPLIED BY THE THREE OPTIONS
Percentage Debt Relief:
Without Recapture          With Recapture
New Money                         0   0
Interest reduction               31.1%                         28.1%
Principal reduction              35.0%                         32.0%
Mix of IR, PR and NM             29.54%                        26.85%
Note: Debt relief is defined as the reduction in the discounted value of debt
service as a percentage of the face value of the outstanding debt. The
projected LIBOR rate (based on PAC assumptions) was used to discount
cash-flows.
44.   Of course, new money implied no nominal debt relief.  The principal
reduction option involved 35% debt relief, since the spread of 13/16 of one
percentage point is not changed. Evaluated at the projected interest rate
(based on PAC World Bank assumptions), the low interest rate option implies
31.1% debt relief. 21 1 This results in a debt relief percentage for the
actual mix of 29.5% of the face value of $45.3 billion, or $13.4 billion.
45.   Furthermore, the debt and debt service relief options qualify for the
recapture clause. The value of these provisions depends both on expected
future oil prices and on the variability of these prices. Thus any evaluation
21/ This number is sensitive to the projections used for international
interest rates. We used the PAC assumptions for LIBOR until the year 2000 and
assumed that the LIBOR rate remained at the year 2000 level thereafter. The
two debt relief options are equivalent in terms of implied debt relief if
LIBOR would stay at 9.1% for the coming thirty years. However, the interest
reduction option provides more than debt service relief. Because the interest
rate on this exit instrument will be fixed, it also provides insurance against
interest rate fluctuations.



- 20 -
needs explicitly to incorporate the impact of uncertainty on the expected cost
of this clause; evaluating the impact of the recapture clause on debt service
obligations at some point in the future based on estimated oil prices is not
enough. Estimates using market information on the pricing of oil options
suggest that the recapture clause is worth about 3% of the amount brought
under the debt/debt-service reduction options. 221 In absolute amounts, this
would imply $1.2 billion less debt relief. Note, however, that the clause
does not come in operation until 1996.
C. Efficiency of Debt-Enhancement Funds: the Internal Rate of Return
Approach
46.   Was it an efficient use of the enhancement funds?  Evaluating this
requires a comparison of the implicit rate of return on the enhancement money
with standard criteria for Bank projects. The internal rate of return (IRR)
approach compares the implicit rate of return on the enhancement money with
the cost of financing the $7.12 billion. Such a rate of return can be
calculated by considering the whole package as a project with as net benefits
the reduction in scheduled cash flow (of commercial bank debt only) over the
next thirty years that the deal will bring about. The gross benefits consist
of (a) the old flow of debt service, including amortization, since old claims
have been extinguished; (b) interest earnings on the interest collateral
accounts; (c) amounts to be released from all collateral accounts in 2019,
which at that time will include the face value of the discount bonds placed in
the principal collateral accounts; (d) the new money disbursements; (e) the
back payment for excess payments in 1989 due to the fact that the deal was
retroactive to July 1, 1989. The gross costs, to be subtracted from the gross
benefits, include: (a) the debt service on the new debt instruments, including
amortization and the new money instruments; (b) The $7.12 billion placed in
the various collateral accounts at the time the debt exchange took place; and
(c) the cost of the oil recapture clause.
47.   Several assumptions are needed to calculate the internal rate of return
of the project. First, and most important, a forecast of LIBOR is required to
estimate the interest cost of old and new debt. Second, to calculate the
potential cost of the recapture clause forecasts of oil prices and
international inflation are required 23. Since the new debt matures in the
year 2019 forecasts should cover the period 1990-2019. Since it is a Bank
project the PAC assumptions covering the period to the year 2000 were used.
For the remaining 19 years it was assumed that the above variables remain at
their year 2000 real level; in the case of oil a constant real price was
assumed beyond the year 2000. Finally, while at appraisal the relevant IRR is
22/ See Claessens, S. and Sweder van Wijnbergen (1992), "Secondary Market
Prices and Mexico's Brady Deal", Journal of Banking and Finance, forthcoming.
23/ Note that the approach to estimate the cost of the oil recapture clause in
this section is based on existing Bank estimates of key variables; it differs
from the approach followed in the previous section which was based on market
information from oil options.



- 21 -
the one that results from forecasts that were available at the time of
appraisal, almost two years after the deal implementation its is possible to
re-evaluate the IRR with actual data of the last two years and with revised
forecasts for 1992 onwards.
48.   The IRR under alternatives i) and ii) using data and forecasts of
September 1989 and November 1991 are shown in Table 5. Independently of the
alternatives of refinancing considered (alternatives i) and ii)) the IRR is
well above the cost at which Mexico borrowed the enhancement funds (8.0% was
the average interest rate paid to official creditors in 1990), or the rate of
return that Mexico could have obtained on the foreign exchange reserves
devoted to the package (8.29% was the one month LIBOR rate in 1990). Note,
however, how sensitive the IRR is to the assumptions made about hypothetical
debt reschedulings in the absence of the Brady deal: the IRR based on
historical patterns of debt refinancing (alternative ii)) is less than half
the IRR based on principal refinancing only (alternative i)). It is also
clear that the decline in interest rates between 1989 and 1991 has also
lowered the IRR of the debt enhancement project. This is because almost half
of the rescheduled debt is in par bonds with a fixed interest rate which is
now closer to market levels, i.e., the debt relief element of par bonds was
reduced. Finally, the oil recapture clause reduces significantly the IRR,
particularly, when the 1991 set of price and interest rate projections are
employed. However, using the rate of return approach, the answer to the
question of efficient use of enhancement moneys is still unambiguously
positive.



- 22 -
TABLE 5: INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
Alternative i)'           Alternative ii)'
September 1989.                        37.09                     16.12
- without Oil Recapture               40.54                     20.04
November 1991.                         21.76                     13.65
- without Oil Recapture               28.71                     18.87
Note: 1/ See Note in Table 3.
II. Debt Relief at Market Prices
49.   Nominal debt relief is not necessarily a good measure for debt relief
when a country is not expected to service debt on time or in full, as
reflected in the secondary market discount. Using nominal debt relief as a
measure would, for instance, tend to show that countries with high discounts
obtain large benefits from debt reduction, thus ignoring the fact that the
country was unlikely to service debt on time or in full. The approach
followed in the previous section remedied this limitation in part by
considering alternative scenarios of debt refinancing to take into account
expectations that Mexico was not going to service its liabilities on time. An
alternative view on how to evaluate a debt package like the Mexican focuses on
the pre- and post-deal market value of the claims under negotiation. Since
creditors always have the option not to negotiate in such a voluntary
approach, one cannot expect the market value of the claims to go down as a
result of the negotiations. In this context, nominal debt relief is only
possible if a third party or Mexico itself is willing to offset the impact of
nominal debt relief on market value by enhancing, in one form or another, the
market value of the new claims to be created after the negotiations. In this
view, there is debt relief (a reduction in the discounted value of expected
payments) if the market value of the debt exclusive of the enhancements goes
down on account of the agreement or, alternatively, if the market value of
debt with enhancements goes up by less than the full value of the
enhancements.



- 23 -
A. Debt Relief at Market Prices: an Example
50.   Secondary market prices before and after the deal can be used to
evaluate the amount of effective debt relief. Comparing the market value of
claims (price times face value) before and after the agreement and correcting
for the new money provided by the commercial banks themselves (which is a
negative cost to the country) will determine the amount of effective debt
relief. As an estimate of the pre-deal price we use the average secondary
market price over the month of February, 36 cents, giving a pre-deal market
value of $17.4 billion (36 cents times $48.2 billion of debt). The post-deal
value of debt is the observed market value of the new enhanced instruments
immediately after the exchange took place, $18.6 billion, plus the value of
the new money provided by the banks (face value of $1.1 billion), giving a
total post-deal value of $19 billion. 241 The loss to Mexico is now the
difference between the before and after deal market value, $1.6 billion (19 -
17.4), corrected for the fact that part of the deal was essentially financed
by the new money from the commercial banks, $1.1 billion, leaving a net
difference vis a vis the commercial banks of $0.5 billion. However, the post-
deal market value includes the value of the enhancements; using a very simple
model in which the market value of the interest support is estimated as one
minus the secondary market price 5J, we find that the market value of
enhancements is $5.7 billion. Thus, since the value of Mexico's debt only
increased by $0.5 billion, Mexico obtained $5.2 billion (5.7 - 0.5) in
effective market value debt relief.
51.   However, the result of such an exercise could be very misleading:
secondary market prices suffer from several shortcomings. Secondary debt
markets are relatively small and can be influenced by factors other than
Mexico's capacity or willingness to service debt, e.g., regulations under
which banks operate. In addition Mexican debt secondary market prices during
the period were influenced by many exogenous factors other than the debt deal,
in particular, changing oil prices. Thus, to apply the above concept of
measuring debt relief to Mexico's DDSR agreement requires, in addition to bank
choices and conventional measures of nominal debt relief (already discussed),
measures which correct for credit risk and corresponding differences between
face value and market value for the old debt and for each of the new
instruments. These measures should present a picture around the time of the
agreement: current measures may be influenced by exogenous shocks.
24/ To value new money we use the per unit price of the new enhanced claims,
41 cents.
25/ A description of this model is given in S. Claessens, I. Diwan and E.
Fernandez-Arias (1992) "Recent Experience with Commercial Bank Debt
Reduction", Mimeo, World Bank.



- 24 -
B. Market Valuation of the New Instruments
52.   Among the many factors influencing market valuation of the various
components of the package, four are likely to dominate. First, the type and
magnitude of enhancements. Second, remaining Mexican credit risk will affect
each instrument differently because of differences in seniority and guarantee
structure. Third, for given credit risk, the three instruments chosen by
banks imply different amounts of nominal debt relief. Fourth, the tax and
regulatory treatment of the consequences on each bank's income and balance
sheet of each instrument influences the cost to the creditor of a given amount
of nominal debt relief for the debtor.
53.   The impact of credit risk and nominal debt relief on the value of the
new instruments is evaluated in Table 6 (and discussed in detail in Annex 7).
The methodology used to calculate the prices uses option pricing and relies on
projections of Mexico's future balance of payment (consistent with domestic
growth), debt service to other creditors, capital out-and inflows and reserve
accumulation. The methodology allows the pricing of the individual Mexican
obligations pre- and post-deal as well as the extra value provided through the
enhancements. Note that because of differences in nominal debt relief between
the different instruments, individual valuation depended on the overall
choices made by all creditors. The table summarizes the secondary market
valuation of the different instruments on the basis of the actual choices
made. The table lists the value, as a percentage of the new face value, with
and without enhancements, and with enhancements as a percentage of the old
face value. Mexican banks are entered in the new money option. Note that
both prices are estimated on the basis of a model using the same projections
for exogenous variables and thus need not correct for the effects of exogenous
shocks occurring between announcement of the deal (and observation of the pre-
deal price) and the ex-post date.26t
26/Using the actual secondary market price before and after the deal as basis
for comparison would also suffer from the fact that ex-ante prices may
incorporate anticipation of a forthcoming DDSR agreement.



- 25 -
54.   As any analystical pricing model of sovereign claims, the particular
option model used involves some choices. The model is well suited to deal
with the different seniority structures of the old and new claims, the
particular enhancement schemes used, the fact that prices may have moved
because of exogenous events (particularly the oil price increase due to the
Gulf crisis and changes in international interest rates), and the contingent
nature of some of the repayment obligations (the recapture clause). It is
less well equipped to handle the possibility of a rescheduling of claims in
the event that repayments fall short of scheduled debt service. Such option
models have been developed by Genotte et alii (1987), Cohen (1989) and Dixit
and Bartolini (1990) (Annex 7). These papers focus on the option a creditor
has either to call a default or to collect partial payments and reschedule the
remaining part of the claim falling due. The model used here focusses on the
option the country has not to service its debt fully in periods of low foreign
exchange availability.
TABLE 6: SECONDARY MARKET VALUATION OF THE NEW INSTRUMENTS 271
Without enhancements;          With enhancements;
Percentage  Perc. of new              Perc. of new       Perc. of old
chosen       face value                face value          face value
PB   0.465              0.34                      0.44             0.44
DB   0.426              0.49                      0.61             0.39
NM   0.109              0.27                      NA               0.27
PB : Par Bond                         NM : New Money & Others
DB : Discount Bond                    NA : Not Applicable
55.   To incorporate the nominal debt relief provided through the principal
discount and the low interest rate, the secondary market valuation is best
compared to the old face value. Inclusive of enhancements, the low interest
alternative is the most valuable, followed by the discount bond. This is a
logical consequence of the smaller amount of debt relief implied by the par
bond. Against that it should be said that this instrument provides Mexico
with nominal interest rate insurance while the discount bond does not.
56.   The new money has a low value since this alternative was clearly
presented as junior to the exit instruments by the Mexican authorities, which
had a major impact on valuation and explained the small share of banks
choosing this option. The junior status of the new money choice implies that
27/ Both the par bond and the discount bond price projections were very close
to the actual prices in the first weeks of trading, April 1990.



- 26 -
its valuation of 26 cents can be interpreted as the marginal price of Mexico's
debt.
57.   The effect of the fourth factor, regulation in creditor countries,
cannot be evaluated at this level of generality, since regulatory and tax
treatment differed widely across countries. Moreover, the impact of such
treatment often depends on an individual bank's characteristics: for example
tax write-offs are valuable to profitable banks, but of no or little value to
banks that are in a net loss situation. It appears, however, that the choices
of individual banks were heavily influenced by their nationality as largely
banks in the same creditor country choose the same option. In France, for
instance most banks that chose a DDSR option preferred the par bond.
C. Market Valuation of the Debt Package: Did Mexico Obtain a Good Bargain?
58.   With the pre- and post-deal prices above, it can be established whether
Mexico obtained effective debt relief. The pre-deal unit price estimated was
39.4 cents, implying that the total pre-deal market value was $19 billion.
Using the values of the new claims listed in Table 6, the post-deal market
value with enhancements was only $19.05 billion (including Mexican creditors),
very close from the pre-deal market value. Evaluating without the
enhancements, however, yielded only $15.46 billion (Figure 1). The market
value of the enhancement moneys was thus $3.59 billion. Of this amount, only
1.4% (19.05-19) went to increase the market value with enhancements; the rest
of the enhancement moneys served to reduce the market value of Mexico's debt
(18.81-15.54) and in that sense accrued mostly (98.6%) to Mexico rather than
to the creditor banks. Another way of putting it is that Mexico "paid" $3.59
billion for $13 billion of nominal debt relief (26.9% of $48.2 billion, see
Table 4) which implies an effective price of 27.6 cents. It thus succeeded in
buying back debt at close to the marginal price (27 cents), instead of at the
much higher average price, as critics had feared would happen. The
enhancement moneys thus did indeed achieve not only nominal debt relief but
also went towards effective market value debt relief.28'
28/Adding the full face value of the recapture clause (i.e. not corrected for
credit risk) increases the post-deal market value to $19.79 billion for the
value with enhancements and $16.2 billion for the value without. This would
give Mexico 78% of the market value of the enhancement moneys, still a good
result, and an underestimate of the actual number, since the value of the
recapture clause will fall if it too is assessed including credit risk.



- 27 -
Pre- and Post-Deal Market Value
20-
16_
16
14
12
1 6 >///%_ ~M//// 
! 4 -            X/      / 
Pro                Post
W Wltx Ed.ord - Witi 
Figure 1
59.   The conclusion is that Mexico obtained most of the value of the
enhancement moneys; it thus achieved a remarkably good agreement. Mexico's
success can be traced to the effective way in which it managed to prevent free
riding by any creditor on the debt relief granted by others. The concerted
nature of the agreement, and the sizable political support, most notably from
the US, that made it possible, were thus essential to this success. The above
analysis suggests that it is unlikely that Mexico could have obtained more
debt relief than what it actually obtained (as it obtained virtually all the
enhancement resources). Thus, for example, offering a wider menu of options
to commercial banks could, at best, have made the DDSR agreement only
marginally more efficient.
III. Debt Management Issues
A. Burden Sharing
60.   The analysis of the position of Mexico vis-a-vis its overall creditors
as an aggregate did not evaluate the position of the various groups of
creditors; losses and gains between creditors are possible if the burden
sharing was uneven. The issue of burden sharing between different existing
creditors is difficult to evaluate, however. One useful measure is the
expected contribution of each creditor or class of creditor to reducing
Mexico's net foreign debt repayments (expressed as a percentage of the stock



- 28 -
of debt held initially by each class of creditor). As shown in Table 7 the
drop in Mexico's net repayments to official creditors (multilateral and
bilateral) and private creditors (commercial banks and bond holders) over
1990-94 was in line with the original debt stocks of these creditors: the drop
in net repayments (between before and after the debt agreement) as a
percentage of the initial stock of debt with each class of creditor was 9.4%
in the case of private creditors and 9.5Z in the case of official
creditors. 291 Based on this measure there was good burden sharing among
creditors.
61.   In principle, similar to the evaluation of effective debt relief, burden
sharing would best be analyzed on the basis of the market value of claims of
each creditor class before and after the deal. In practice, a simplified
evaluation of burden sharing between creditors could be based on the change in
the relative amount of debt outstanding to each creditor class as a result of
the DDSR plan. For example, the share of private creditors in total long-term
outstanding debt dropped from 74.41 in 1989 to 68.6% in 1990 (with the share
of official creditors rising accordingly). It could then be argued that since
private creditors maintained the market value of their claims they have
overall benefitted from a lower exposure. On the other hand, it can be argued
that official creditors were worse off not just because they increased their
exposure but also because the "market" value of their debt holdings (hac it
exist) would have dropped (as with a higher exposure their implicit seniority
is likely to drop). However, since no market exist for some claims classes
(e.g. official claims), an overall assessment of gains and losses between
creditors cannot be calculated. Imposing assumptions about the seniority
status of certain (groups) of creditors and then calculating market values may
become arbitrary.
29/ The drop in net repayments is based on World Bank pipeline projections
performed by the Debt and International Finance Division; it is calculated
through comparison of December 1989 and December 1990 pipeline projections.



- 29 -
Table 7: BURDEN SHARING BETWEEN OFFICIAL AND PRIVATE CREDITORS
Mexico's Scheduled Net Repayments: 1990-94 30
1.Before the Deal   2.After the Deal   3.Change: 1-2
To:           USS m.  Z of          USS m.  Z of       USS m.  Z of
debt                debt               debt '
A. Official Creditors   3323   19.8           1736   10.3        1587   9.5
of which:
- Multilateral      2044   19.0          1386   12.9        658   6.1
- Bilateral         1279   21.2           350    5.8        929  15.4
B. Private Creditors 2 13154   24.7           8151   15.3       5003   9.4
C. Total: A + B         16477   23.5          9887   14.1
Notes: 1/ Debt held with each creditor in December 1989.
2/ Financial Institutions and Bonds.
B. Flexibility of Debt Management
62.   How did DDSR affect future debt management?  In particular, has Mexico
lost flexibility for managing its external debt as a consequence of the DDSR
plan? Since most commercial bank debt was converted into bonds Mexico may
have lost flexibility for debt rescheduling in case of a downturn. The 1989
agreement specifies that Mexico will covenant that: a) neither of the bonds
will be considered part of a base amount with respect to any future requests
by Mexico for new money; and b) the bonds will not be subject to any future
restructuring requests. Also contributing to reduced flexibility of debt
management is the fact that the new bonds are partially collateralized and,
thus, Mexico is less likely to reschedule them. Note that even during the
crisis years of the 1980s Mexican bonds were never rescheduled.
63.   In practice, though, the flexibility of Mexico's foreign debt management
has not been impaired significantly. First, all new bonds were in registered
form which facilitate a potential debt rescheduling (renegotiation of bearer
bonds may be more complicated). The fact that Mexican bonds were not
rescheduled in the 1980s probably responded to the fact that they did not make
up a large share of outstanding debt (a situation reversed by the DDSR deal).
Second, the loss of flexibility due to collateralization does not affect the
uncollateralized portion of bonds; at the time the deal was implemented the
collateral represented 17% of the old debt face value (21% of the new debt
30/ Projections before (after) the debt deal refer to December 1989 (1990)
projections performed by the World Bank; projections cover the 1990-94 period.



- 30 -
face value). Note, however, that the potential restructuring of the Brady
bonds is not expected to become an operational issue in the foreseeable
future. In fact, in June 1992 the Mexican government announced that about
US$7.2 billion worth of bonds have been repurchased and are (at the time of
writing) in the process of being cancelled.
64.   Moreover, Mexico obtained substantial downside protection through the
interest guarantee. Contingent financing could have added further flexibility
to Mexico's foreign debt. At the insistence of the World Bank, Mexico sought
a $500 million oil contingency facility from commercial banks, i.e., extra-
financing contingent on the price of oil falling below a given level, as part
of the DDSR plan. However, this facility never materialized, partly because
US regulations prevented direct issue of commodity-indexed instruments. 31/
Had contingency financing become available, it would probably have implied
less debt relief as banks would have given up part of their claims in the
downside.
65.   The conversion of about half of the existing commercial debt for fixed-
interest instruments (par bonds) reduced Mexico's exposure to foreign interest
rate volatility. One of the key factors that prompted the 1982 debt crisis in
Mexico was the sharp increase in foreign interest rates. The large
subscription of commercial banks to the par bond option has provided Mexico
with an implicit insurance against future increases in foreign interest rates.
IV. Efficiency Gains: Domestic Impact
66.   The above analysis indicates that Mexico did indeed obtain a good
bargain with its creditors: creditors were only marginally better off after
the agreement implying that most of value of enhancements provided by creditor
governments accrued to Mexico. This still implied a small financial loss vis
a vis commercial banks (as the adjusted market value of debt increased).
However, Mexico's outstanding economic performance in recent years suggests
that the indirect effects derived from the Brady deal have been important
enough to compensate for this loss. Direct foreign investment (including
portfolio investment) and private investment have been booming, there was a
sharp reversal of capital flight, stock market prices skyrocketed and domestic
interest rates reached record low levels (Figures 2 to 6 a'). All this
suggests that Mexico's foreign debt problems have been left behind. But
clearly the debt deal has not been the only important policy measure or
structural reform that Mexico underwent in the recent past. Sustained fiscal
austerity, prudent domestic debt management, the privatization effort and
advanced negotiations for a free trade agreement with the US and Canada have
31/ See footnote 14 in Section 4.
32/ Capital flight/repatriation estimates belong to "Measuring Capital Flight
in Mexico" by H. Eggerstedt, R. Brideau Hall and S. van Wijnbergen, mimeo
World Bank, December 1991.



- 31 -
also materialized during the same relatively short time span. It is therefore
conceivable that the indirect effects of the debt deal may have not
materialized at all in the absence of other equally deep structural reforms
taking place.  However, at a minimum, the debt deal has allowed other
structural reforms to take off.
DIRECT FOREIGN INVESTMENT
AM POTFOUD NMVESTM
12000
1000
80  81 82 63 34    36 17 33 St *0 Di
-'w ,i *d Iwu
Figure 2
Capital Flight/Repatriation (+/-)
12
I0
F0   1 32  53 34 35 36 87 31 3 0
Figure 3



- 32 -
PRIVATE FIXED INVESTMENT
(XOF GDP)
17 
14
12
so  8I   2  63  84  85 6  5   U   SB  *o Si
Figure 4
CETES 28 DAYS
'So-
140
120
loo
I0
60
40
20
lose28         tag      I too     1291
Figure 5
STOCK MARKET PRICES
THE MEXICO FLU  (N us $)
20
15 
1-
2s-  /
4-                 v
Fiur          Ill 160                  1661
Figure 6



- 33 -
67.   The contribution of DDSR to reducing or eliminating inefficiencies may
have come about through some of the following channels of transmission, the
first four of which are discussed in greater detail below. 33/
A. Debt Overhang Hypothesis. A reduction in the possible disincentives to
structural adjustment and investment resulting from higher expected future
taxes associated with the large external public debt - .
B. Better Creditor Coalition. The better coordination achieved among
creditors reduces uncertainty about future repayments and debt negotiations,
i.e., it reduces Mexico's exposure to external factors.
C. A Lower Internal Transfer. The reduction in foreign debt service lowers
domestic fiscal and financial pressures thus freeing domestic resources for
investment and discouraging capital flight.
D. Reduced Domestic Uncertainty. A smoother transfer to foreign creditors
reduces domestic macroeconomic uncertainty, particularly, that related to
foreign exchange rate markets.
E. Signalling Effects. Renewed investor's confidence derived from the
support provided by the IMF, World Bank and creditor governments. Creditor's
concessions also signal a greater commitment to coordination (rather than
confrontation) between debtors and creditors which facilitates the process of
domestic adjustment.
F. Reduced Vulnerability to External Shocks. A substantial reduction in the
proportion of floating rate debt (from 100% to 45% of commercial debt before
and after the deal) lowers Mexico's vulnerability to foreign interest rate
fluctuations thus making the transfer to foreign creditors more predictable.
A. Was there a debt overhang?
68.   It should be realized that without changes in the domestic economy DDSR
would amount to no more than a zero-sum operation involving some financial
transfers (in the form of market value of claims) between the country and the
commercial banks, and, possibly, third parties. In this context, reducing
debt by buying back debt--even at the marginal price--would by itself not need
benefit Mexico (in effective market value terms): efficiency gains resulting
from DDSR are required. The typically source of inefficiencies that has been
associated with the notion of a "debt overhang" is that debt repayments act as
33/ See for example, S. Claessens, I. Diwan and E. Fernandez-Arias (1992),
Recent Experience with Commercial Bank Debt Reduction", IECDI, World Bank,
mimeo.
34/ This hypothesis was raised both by Krugman (1989) "Financing versus
Forgiving a Debt Overhang", Journal of Development Economics, No. 29, 253-68;
and by Sachs (1990) "The Debt Overhang of Developing countries", in J. de
Macedo and R. Findlay, eds. Diaz Memorial Volume, Helsinki: Wider Institute.



- 34 -
a tax on future output. As a consequence, incentives to invest and adjust are
reduced and output is diminished. In the extreme, a Laffer curve arises and
expected payments to the creditors (the market value of debt) can decline as
the face value of debt is increased. To ascertain whether DDSR would lead to
efficiency gains on this account we need thus establish whether the notion of
a debt overhang was relevant for Mexico.
69.   Mexican total fixed investment (public plus private) as percentage of
GDP declined over most of the 1980s (compared to the pre-debt crisis levels)
while debt-GDP ratios increased. Attributing a causality between debt
increase and a reduction in investment would not be correct, however. A large
part of the decrease in investment could, among other factors, be attributed
to the increase in net transfers to foreign creditors. This negative
liquidity effect, though, would not be strictly the tax as identified in the
debt overhang literature and thus could have been resolved through new money
as well as through DDSR. Furthermore, the analysis of subsection II showed
that the market value of commercial claims did not change significantly as a
result of the agreement, implying that the net present value of expected net
transfers to commercial banks remained more or less the same. Analysis has
also shown that a significant part of the decrease in investment in the 1980s
was due to the increase in the costs of capital (imported input costs) as a
result of the deterioration in the terms of trade. El Furthermore, analysis
has also shown that the extreme case of the market value of debt declining as
the face value increased is not borne out for most debtors, including
Mexico.3- Mexico did therefore not seem to suffer from a severe debt
overhang that would imply that reducing debt in itself would lead to a large
improvement in the climate for investment large enough to increase the value
of claims. Remaining debt overhang, however, may still have increased
investment somewhat, even though not enough to raise the market value of debt
claims.
B. Better Creditor Coalition
70. The source of efficiency gains will therefore largely arise from
domestic factors that can be attributed indirectly to the deal. The
contribution of external factors can only be found in the better coordination
achieved among creditors, the fact that official creditors are more likely to
lend to Mexico, and the better set of financial contracts that is now
possible. The significant reduction in the uncertainty about future
repayments and possibilities of protracted negotiations were the most
important. Part of this reduced uncertainty was reflected in Mexico's renewed
ability to tap foreign capital markets during the period at increasingly lower
spreads. In June 1989, before the agreement with commercial creditors was
35/ See A. Warner "Did the Debt Crisis or the Oil Price decline Cause mexico's
Investment Collapse?", Mimeo, Federal Reserve Board, Washington DC.
36/ See Stijn Claessens, Ishac Diwan, Kenneth A. Froot and Paul R. Krugman
(1991) "Market-Based Debt Reduction for Developing Countries. Principles and
Prospects" Policy and Research Series 1 16, World Bank.



- 35 -
reached, Bancomext (the government owned development bank) issued a US$100
million note which at launch carried a 17% yield to maturity (the first
unsecured voluntary issue since the 1982 crisis). Subsequently, yields on
Mexican bond issues have fallen sharply. Yield spreads over risk-free paper
have narrowed from an average 800 basis points on unenhanced paper during the
second half of 1989 to 318 points during the third quarter of 1991. Yield
spreads dropped to an average of 195 basis points during the first quarter of
1992. 37/
C. A Lower Internal Transfer
71.   The DDSR deal contributed directly to the improvement of fiscal
accounts. The net transfer to foreign commercial creditors, which averaged
$5.2 billion (around 3% of GDP) over 1983-89, dropped about 20% as a
consequence of the debt deal. 381 Similarly, interest relief brought about
by the debt deal was estimated in the range of $1.1-1.5 billion annually in
1990-95 depending on the counterfactual about debt service refinancing made
(subsection I). The direct impact of this is reduced fiscal and financial
pressures domestically due to a reduced internal transfer that the government
has to achieve in order to collect the needed revenue to service external
public debt. If the reduction in the internal transfer associated to DDSR
translates into lower tax pressure the domestic impact is higher disposable
income and a higher after-tax rate of return on investment. In both cases,
the result is an increase in aggregate demand. Note, however, that the
recovery in aggregate demand somewhat preceded at least the implementation of
the DDSR plan (Figures 4 and 7). 39/ A smaller transfer to creditors also
reduces domestic funding requirements thus taking pressure from foreign
exchange markets and domestic interest rates. In the weeks following the
announcement of the debt deal interest rates dropped 20 p.p. (percentage
points). 401 Indirect fiscal alleviation implied by the drop in domestic
interest rates was far more important than the direct fiscal impact of the
debt deal. Assuming the 20 p.p. drop in interest rates was in fact due to the
37/ See IMF, Chapter V, "Mexico-Recent Economic Developments", October 1991.
38/ This assumes that 100% of the principal was going to be rolled over in any
case, i.e., alternative i) in section 4.
39/ The impact of the Brady deal on private investment is examined in more
detail in the next subsection. Econometric analysis also confirmed the
positive impact of the Brady deal on private consumption, see "PECE Extension:
Fiscal and Current Account Implications", Internal memo, World Bank, December
1991.
40/ A less casual assessment of the impact of the Brady deal on domestic
interest rates is performed in the next subsection. For an alternative
approach that considers the impact on domestic interest rates of,
simultaneously, domestic and foreign debt management factors see Daniel Oks
(1991) "Devaluation Expectations and Interest Rates in Mexico: the Role of
Domestic Debt Management", World Bank, LAC Internal Discussion Paper.



- 36 -
debt deal, then, given that domestic debt was about 20% of GDP, indirect
fiscal savings were about 4% of GDP annually, i.e., far greater than direct
foreign interest savings equivalent to 0.5! of GDP annually. However, as we
discuss below, the decline in domestic interest rates associated with DDSR
could have also been accounted for by other factors.
Output md Private Cansumptlon
(ceud X rowth)
4 X
2
1153  1OU   1985  li8  1187  18a  118g  1990  liwi
ui- p    -4-A*uts Cmaeplm
Figure 7
D. Reduced Domestic UncertaintV
72.   The medium- to long-term nature of the DDSR deal is bound to reduce
uncertainty. By reducing the size of the net transfer to commercial creditors
and by making it smoother, i.e., less volatile, over time the debt deal has
made the net transfer more predictable and, in that way, may have reduced
macroeconomic policy uncertainty. In particular, DDSR is likely to have
reduced uncertainty related to foreign exchange rate markets which, in turn,
is associated with the stability of other dimensions of macroeconomic policy.
Several indicators illustrate the medium- to long-term nature of the debt
deal, e.g., the lengthening of debt maturity and, asssociated with it, the
reduced variance of the net transfer to foreign creditors. The projected
variance of the transfer was also reduced by the issue of fixed-interest rate
debt instruments (par bonds). An index of the variance of the projected net
transfer reported in Figure 8 suggests that the reduced variance of the net
transfer to commercial creditors has, via reduced uncertainty about future
exchange rates, played an important role in the sharp drop of interest rates
observed since 1989. In fact, the evidence shows that while the impact of the
variance of the projected net transfer on devaluation expectations/exchange



- 37 -
rate uncertainty 41/ is statistically significant the impact of the average
projected net transfer per se on devaluation expectations/exchange rate
uncertainty is not (Annex 8). In order words, the effect of DDSR on reduced
uncertainty is more relevant than the one on the internal transfer. This is
not surprising given Mexico's excellent recent record on fiscal management:
the drop in the internal transfer, estimated at slightly less than 1/2 percent
of GDP, is relatively small compared to the turnaround in the primary fiscal
balance from a deficit of 8% of GDP in 1981 into a surplus of 8% of GDP in
1988-90.
73.   However, the short-term nature of domestic interest rates and, in
particular, of the interest differential between peso- and dollar denominated
domestic debt, may not capture the full medium-term impact of DDSR. The stock
market price index may provide a better gauge of medium-term expectations but,
given its relatively small size, runs the risk of not being representative.
Private investment is a more representative forward looking measure of how
market forces may have reacted to DDSR. And since real investment is more
irreversible than stock market investment it may hint more about how medium-
term uncertainty evolves. The evidence on private investment is also
consistent with the view that DDSR exerted a favorable impact on uncertainty
(via a lower variance of the projected net transfer). It also suggests that
reduced uncertainty played a relatively more important role than the reduced
transfer. Reductions in the average projected net transfer didn't even exert
a significant impact on private investment. Instead, the reduced net transfer
variance contributed significantly to increase private fixed investment (Annex
8).
Variance of Ihe Projected Transfer to
Foreign Creditors.
110%
800%
700
sox
19352   10S1.1    10U.7    1090.1   1100.12
Figure 8
41/ Devaluation expectations/exchange rate uncertainty is measured by the
interest differential of peso- and dollar-denominated domestic public debt
adjusted by the preannounced devaluation rate (Annex 8).



- 38 -
6.    Impact on Sustainability
74.   On almost every target that is under direct or indirect governmental
control, macroeconomic performance has been outstanding. Unprecedented fiscal
austerity, reflected on primary fiscal surpluses of on average 7.5% of GDP in
1988-91, has led to sizable reductions of domestic public debt. The drop in
domestic debt was also fuelled in 1990-91 by lower interest rates and
privatizations. Reflecting improved confidence in the economy interest rates
have declined to record low levels for the last 15 years while Mexico received
massive private capital inflows, on average US$ 9 billion in 1989-90 and an
estimated US$17 billion in 1991. Another measure of success is provided by
the strong decline in inflation to an average of 23% in 1989-91 (18.9% in
1991). Simultaneously, economic growth has resumed led by a strong resurgence
of private investment. Although the current account has deteriorated sharply
in recent years, this is mainly the result of a private sector investment boom
and, to a lesser degree, lower private saving. In any case, the current
account deficit has been comfortably overfinanced leading to strong reserve
accumulation, over US$10 billion in 1990-91. Thus, while adjustment is by no
means complete progress so far augurs well for a period of sustained growth.
The attainments of the program and the sustainability of the project thus are
not at risk, particularly, in view of the projected improvement of public
sector creditworthiness indicators.
7.    Summary of Findings and Lessons from Experience
75.   The Brady plan provided an efficient framework for debt relief.  The
concerted nature of the Mexico deal contributed to ensure that official moneys
went to the intended beneficiaries: a tax payer financed creditor bail-out was
thus avoided. Mexico's success in negotiating a favorable agreement with its
foreign commercial creditors can be traced to the effective way in which it
managed to prevent free riding by any creditor on the debt relief granted by
others which, in turn, was made possible by the sizable political support,
most notably from the US. Mexico's successful global debt restructuring can
also be traced back to good burden sharing between official and private
creditors. The menu approach to debt reduction made the deal more efficient
by helping to accommodate the diverse needs and expectations of commercial
banks facing different regulatory and tax environments. The oil recapture
clause, by moving obligations from bad states of nature to good states of
nature, allowed for a larger amount of debt relief as banks obtained in
exchange for their existing claims a more valuable (contingent) claim. Mexico
sought but did not obtain contingency financing, partly because US regulations
prevented direct issue of commodity-indexed instruments. Had contingency
financing become available it would probably have implied less debt relief as
banks would have given up part of their claims in the downside. However,
Mexico obtained substantial downside protection through the interest
guarantee. The large commercial bank subscription to the fixed-interest (par
bond) option provided Mexico an implicit insurance against future increases in
foreign interest rates.



- 39 -
76.   The above findings about design and implementation of DDSR operations
provide useful lessons for future operations of this kind. The World Bank
played a key advisory role to Mexico on the design, formulation and evaluation
of the menu options in the DDSR plan, e.g., on the evaluation of the oil
recapture clause and the pricing of the fixed-interest (par bond) option. The
World Bank also advised the Government of Mexico during negotiations with the
Commercial Bank Advisory Comittee. Operational lessons from the World Bank
involvement in the DDSR plan were also important. The Interest Support Loan
was the first operation of its kind in the World Bank and its implementation
required developing new disbursement, legal procedures and legal covenants to
ensure that the loan financed the purchase of collateral. For example, the
World Bank reserved the right to require prepayment of the loan if such
proceeds were not used to achieve debt-debt service reduction or if, having
the resources been allocated to debt-debt service reduction, the collateral
was released (if Mexico cancells its debt). The World Bank, as the IDB, the
Japan Exim Bank and commercial creditors, had also to consent to the waiver of
the negative pledge restriction allowing the government to purchase collateral
up to $7.5 billion for the principal and interest payments on the discount and
par bonds. The World Bank did not impose as a condition for effectiveness and
disbursement of the Interest Support Loan any upfront conditionality. This
was due to the existence of substantial second tranche conditionality set by
the World Bank adjustment loans and conditionality set under the IMF's EFF.
It was also due to Mexico's excellent track record on policy reform and on
achieving macroeconomic policy targets. This led to the perception that
Mexico was strongly committed to adjustment and reform. This perception was
validated soon after the implementation of the DDSR plan by the announcement
of key structural reforms such as: the privatization of commercial banks; the
North-American Free Trade Agreement; and the creation of an oil contingency
fund. With the benefit of hindsight it was correct not to impose on Mexico
any extra conditionality.
77.   Mexico did not face a short-term liquidity crunch as a consequence of
the debt deal: the outflow of resources required to purchase collateral was
mostly financed with additional borrowing. Short-term interest relief brought
about by the debt deal was in the US$1.1-1.5 billion annual range on average
over 1990-95 and cash-flow relief was in an annual range between close to zero
and $1 billion over the same period depending on the debt refinancing
counterfactual assumed.
78.   However, the critical difference between traditional debt rescheduling
and DDSR emerges over the long term. Long-term debt relief resulting from the
actual mix of options chosen by non-Mexican creditors (defined as the
reduction in the discounted value of debt service as a percentage of the face
value of outstanding debt) was around 30%. The internal rate of return of
enhancement money, where net benefits stem from the reduction in scheduled
cash flow brought about by the deal, was well above the cost at which Mexico
borrowed enhancement resources even when the counterfactual scenario includes
full refinancing of the principal and part of the interest and when the oil
recapture clause is included. And not only did the enhancement moneys achieve
nominal debt relief, they also achieved effective market value debt relief.
In this view, there is debt relief (a reduction in the discounted value of
expected payments) if the market value of the debt without enhancements drops



- 40 -
or if the market value of debt with enhancements does not go up by more than
the full value of the enhancements. The post-deal market value with
enhancements was close to the pre-deal market value. Thus, commercial banks
were only marginally better off implying that Mexico appropriated most of the
value of enhancements.
79.   Efficiency gains, though, were sizably more important than debt reflief
viewed from a purely financial perspective. Efficiency gains stemmed largely
from the favorable impact of a smaller, smoother and more predictable transfer
to foreign commercial creditors on macroeconomic policy uncertainty. In
particular, the lower variance of the net foreign transfer to commercial
creditors contributed to lower domestic interest rates and higher private
investment. While more analysis is required to identify and measure
efficiency gains derived from the debt deal, it is clear is that in the
absence of the other deep and widespread structural reforms that Mexico
underwent during the period the above gains would not have materialized, at
least to the extent that they did.



- 41 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
INTEREST SUPPORT LOAN
(LOAN 3159-ME)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
I. BACKGROUND.
Since it took office December of 1988, the Federal Administration
stressed the need to start negotiating with the international
financial community in order to reach the following objectives:
- Reduce the net transfer of resources abroad, looking for
a sustained growth of the economy.
-  Reduce the value of the historical debt accumulated through
December of 1988.
-  Ensure  the obtention of fresh  funds  for a long period of
time.
- Decrease to actual value of the debt and the proportion
thereof relative to the gross domestic product.
Negotiations had to be made with commercial banking, international
financial agencies and governments of the main country creditors
at the Paris Club.
In 1989, the Mexican Debt Reduction Plan received the support
of  the  International  Monetary  Fund,  the  Government  of Japan
through the Export-Import Bank and the World Bank, thus setting
the foundation to reach an agreement between Mexican Federal
Government and bank creditors, signed on February 4, 1990
in Mexico City.



- 42 -
Through such agreement, the restructuring of US$ 48,231 million
of foreign public debt was formalized, which became effective
on March  28,  1990.   Such restructuring allowed bank creditors
to choose any of the following three formulas or a combination
thereof:
1)    Replacing  the  original  debt by bonds at par.  The latter
pay semiannual interests based on a fixed rate of 6.25%
in U.S. Dollars (or an equivalent rate in other currencies).
Their term is of 30 years, maturing in the year 2019;
the principal is guaranteed by zero-coupon bonds and
there  is  in  addition  a  guarantee  for  the  payment  of
interests for 18 months.
2)    Replacing  the original  debt  by  discount  bonds.  Discount
bonds  imply  a 35%  redurtion  in capital,  pay  semiannual
interests  based  on  LIBOR  in  the  case  of  U.S.  Dollars
(or its equivalent in other currencies) plus 13/16 per
cent, at a 30 year term, maturing in the year 2019;
the principal is guaranteed by zero-coupon bonds and
also  they  have  an  18  month  guarantee  for  the payment
of interests.
3)    Fresh  money.   Creditors  give  fresh  funds  between  the
years  1990  and  1992,  for  an  amount  equivalent  to 25%
of the original balance of the debt in favor of those
choosing this option.
Once bank creditors made a decision regarding the aforementioned
formulas, the restructurable debt was distributed as follows:
46.50 per cent of the balance of such debt in bonds at par,
42.59 per cent in discount bonds and the other 10.91 per cent
in fresh money.
The exchange of the debt to be restructured for bonds at par
and  discount  bonds  required  the establishment  by  the Federal
Government of guarantees totalling US$ 7,122 million, as shown
in the next table:



- 43 -
DEBT REDUCTION PLAN
a - 35 I. DSCOUN?.
^ _ 23 352                ~~REDUCTION 7.eee.
L1618LI~~~~~~~ INENs/Dt                    2 62       IE            - FlXIO INPEAESt' RATE
tftt  _  COM"tU4T I                   3                   o    A T            6 25t /.FUtURE REDUCtION
4:1131                       \  CNAN6 /                         41&41             7 750.
_                              ~~~~~~~~C - FRESh KONEY. NEW INCOME
CITIBANK
SEMt-AHN"UAL/
COP~I~UNVYV
IFSIUSCAL kSRE-E5t
OFXICO  JAXPCO    _   P6ENT 1EPAY,3Eq
_aFIDERAL RESEVE                                        _U
8                       PRINtIP4L~~~~ 0l9-RIEr*YMEN
COLLA?R    .._...._ .       __. INI
ISTAELISHMFNT                            3 4@
oF COLLPT1AL                                            
6UPARANTI1                                                    aZ HON7HS OF 
7) 122                                           OLL             .................. i
=   =    _   !  X  _                             spX~~~~~~VANIN6
PPHK~~  OF  JPNISUCS-------------  CfI                                        |



- 44 -
II.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND IMPLEMENTATION.
As a result of the debt agreement, the World Bank lent loans
in the amount of US$ 2,010 million, to support the Debt Reduction
Plan of the Mexican Government; US$ 1,385 million were channeled
to  the  Federal  Government  through  Bancomext,  acting  as  the
borrower, under the loan 3085-ME to the guarantee of discount
bonds and under the loan 3159-ME to the guarantee of interests.
Due to these operations were the first of its kind new procedures
for disbursement and audit reports were designed.
The Interest Support Loan was signed on February 4, 1990 and
the disbursement of US$ 1.26 billion was made on February 20,
1990.
The resources were received and delivered to the collateral
agent (Federal Reserve Bank) which are administered by Banco
de Mexico, acting as depositary of the Federal Government.
III. LESSONS LEARNED.
Mexico successfully concluded the renegotiation of its external
debt.
The reduction in the payment of principal and interests, new
loans and deferred payments of the principal, will make it
possible to bring transfers of net funds abroad down to almost
2% of gross domestic product for the period 1989-1994.
Also,    as  a result  of  the debt  relief options,  the Mexican
Government could support social and infrastructure needs of
the country.



- 45 -
The structural and stabilization changes that Mexico has undergone
and the worldwide acknowledgement of new Mexican economic strategy
have been instrumental in reaching a suitable renegotiation
of the external debt.
The reduction debt operations have aided to create a propitious
climate for progress and security, fostering both domestic and
foreign investment.
The situation now prevailing in the country is highly attractive
for dynamic entrepreneurs.






- 47 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
INTEREST SUPPORT LOAN
(LOAN 3159-ME)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1)   Timetable of Key Events
Original        Disbuirsed      Outstanding
Loan/Credit No.      USS1260 m.      USS1260 m.      USS1260 m.
Time taken by the
Country to prepare programt                     7 months
Program prepared by:                            Secretariat of Financa and
Public Credit
First Presentation to Bank:                     end-April 1989
Yellow Cover                                    December 21, 1989
Formal invitation to negotiate:                 December 21, 1989
Completion of negotiation:                      January 17, 1990
Board approval:                                 January 30, 1990
Loan Agreement                                  February 4, 1990
Effectiveness                                   February 16, 1990
Loan Closing:                                   May 31, 1990
2)   Cumulative Loan Disbursement FY90
(i) Planned                  1260
(ii) Actual                   1260
(iii) (ii) as I of (i)           100
Two disbursements of US$733 million and US$527 million, respectively,
were made on February 16, 1990.
3)   Adjustment operations from which set asides for the DDSR Azreement were
obtained.
FY89      PY90
USS Hillions
Financial Sector Loan (3085-ME)            125        --
Public Enterprise Reform (3086-ME)         125        --
Industrial Sector Loan (3087-ME)           125        --
Fertilizer Sector Loan (2919-ME)            --       150
Agricultural Sector Loan (2918-ME)          --        175
Steel Sector Adjustment Loan (2916-ME)   --           50
New Adjustment Loans                        --        --
Totals                                    375        375



- 48 -
4)   Hission Data
No. of          No. of
Month/Year         Persons      Staff Weeks
Preparation/Negotiations      n/a                 3             18.3 I/
Audit                     October 1990            1              n/a
1L Much of the preparation work was carried out as part of the Bank's regular
economic work.



A. Fiscal Accounts                                                                                               Al
Table .1I. Pttllc Sector Accounts
29 Aug91                                                 (In billiow  of current pesos)
1978     1979      1980      1981     1982      1983      1984     1905      1986      1987     1988    199         10|
UI  01978.100)                                               100    118.2    149.3    191.1    303.6    612.9   1014.1   1599.7   2979.2   6906.6  14791.2  M70.6   20698.2
GDP                                                         2491     3255      4470      6128     9798    17879    29472    47392    79536   193552   396073  516710    668691
A. Total leverte                                             606      819      1203      1635     2535      5882      9485    14787    24082    59103   118514  149088    200439
1. Tax II Non-Tax                                           265      353       470       636      898      1582      2555     4196      7351    17357    42592   63342        881U8
1.1 Feeral Got.                                         291       394       640      873      1360      2761     4280      6901    10368    27601    56243   82239    1159"6
1.  Trafers fra  PE1IEX                              27        45       164      234       458      1171     1708      2741     2980    10163    13451   17985        26098
It.  Trafers fra  Other PE                             0         0         7        3         4         9       19        45        38       87       201      912       1680
111.  Direct & indirect Taxes                         247       333       435      582       791      1399     2322      3733      6582    1527S    37844   52009       76201
111.1 Direct                                    134      173       247       339      465       727      1214     1923      3365      7655    19467   27241       33837
111.1.1 Personal                          67        76       104      152       249       348      567       904      lSS1     3664      8453
111.1.2 Corporate                         54        81       123      160       170       267      480       756      1378     3164      9128
111.1.3 On For.lt_itt.    Other           13        17        20       27        46       III      167       263       430      827      18T
111.2 Indirect                                   96      130       142       176      242       587       966     1554      2536      6132    16614   20924       36054
11.2.1  Sales Tax/VAT                     4         73        86      114       156       391      679      1103      1655     4089    11848   14801       28415
11.2.2  Excise Tal s (x lIEPS)            26        32        31       42        61       151      212       345       690     lSS       3601    4645       5716
11.2.3  Other                             21        25        24       20        24        44       75       107       191      457      116S    1478        1923
111.3 Trade                                      18       29        46        67       84        86       143      306       681      148      1763    3844        6311
111.3.1  Exports                           3         2         2        0         2         4        2         4        49       16        22       90         75
111.3.2  layorts                          1S        27        44       67        83        82      141       302       632     1472      1741    375S        6236          1
IV.  Non-Teax Reveue                                  18        20        3S       54       107       183      231       413       768     Zo20      4749   11333      11987 7
2. Soles of "tlic Enterprises (Total)                      342       466       734       9W9     1937      4300     6932    10592    16732    41746   .75922   8S747    112251              v0
2.1 Dotic                                               282       349       466      All      1058      2210     3951      6537    12028    2786       s7690   63629        1106          1
2.2 External                                              59      117       267       388      879      2090      2981     4055      4704    13877    18231   22118        31145
2.2.1 Ol Export                                      44        96       231      326       812      1939     2780      3845      3890    11623    13373   16717       24577
2.2.2 Other Exports                                   16       21        36       63        67       151      201       210       814     2254      4858    5401       6569
2.1 PEIEX                                              118      186       372      496      1137      2889     4404      6384      9141    23352    3664T   4419        59168
2.1.1 DoestIc I/                                 74        90       141      171       325      949      1624      2539     5251    11728    23274   27482        34592
2.1.2 External                                   44        96      231       326       812     1939      2780      3845     390    11623    13373   16717         24577
2.11 Other PE                                          224      280       361       503      ON       1411     2528      4207      7591    18394    39275   41548        53083
2.11.1 DomestIc                                 208       259      325       440       733      1260     2327      3996     6m       16140    34417   36147       46514
2.11.2 Extternl                                  16        21       36        63        67       151      201       210      814      2254      48S8    S401       6569
0. lotal Expenditure                                         735      1011     1496      2432     4359      7338    11591    18596    35548    891    154897  173707    215545
C. Total (Mon-Interest)Expenditure                           661      907      1338      2127     3182      5016      7875    12942    22036    48189    87155  105980    147470
1. wages                                                    100      236       314      446       786      1`19     1916      3127      5126    12408    23661   30569       39373
1.1 Federel                                              93       120       159      22S       399       580      999      1549      2490     6310    11113   15368        18940
12 PE's                                                  93       116       155      221       387       615      917      1579      2637     609      12547   1S200      20434
1. PElEX                                             14        19       23        35        52       102      lS       278      512      1317      2403    2969       3356
11. Othqr Contr. PE's                                65        81      113       161       289      424       663      1117     1830      3974      7574    9154      125I35
Ill. Ion-Contr. PE xrd Agencis                       14        17        19       25        46       90       103       184      294       80      2571    3077        4543
2. other Current Exp (Total)                               272       371       595      892      1401      2483     3974      6948    12136    25051    46194   55047        75396
2.1 Purchasse of goods & Se ces                       161       203       290      489       706      1367     2320      4088      7023    1525T    29976   35571       47396
1. Federal                                       10       14        21        48       73        97       194      296       687      1294     2839    3803        5153
II. PE's                                         lS      189       269       441      633      1270     2126      3792      6336    13963    27137   31769        42243
11.1  P111EX                                 28        44        65                149       248      435       870      1614     3207      562r    6332       7S96
11.2  Other Contr. PE's                     108       126       178      304       438       927     1601      2786      4482     9069    19492   22219       28197
11.3  Other Nln-CCntr. PE's                   1S       20        26       38        47        95       90       136       241      887      2018    3218       6450



A2
A. Fiscal Accounts
Table I.1 P"ilic Soctor Accounts
29-Aug-91                                             (in biltiorn  of current pesoel
......................................... ................................................................................. .. ........... .................. ... ... ..... .......... .......... ....................... .................
1971     1979     1900     1991      1982     1983     1984     1905     190      1907     1988    1989       1990
.................. ................................. .... ..... ..... ....... .. .. ... ...... ....... ..... ..... ........ ............. ........ ... ... .... ..... ... ... .............. .........
2.2 Current Trwufera frm  Federal Gov.              133      183      328       442      722     1496     2162     3417     5332    11503    22197   27638      3419
1. To states                                  2S        35       77      119       168      318      643     1010     1666    4283      8865   11970      16505
11. To PE's                                   33        44       69      143      267       624     1002     1163     1771     3263     595    6584        7414
11.1 Controlled                           21        28       41      106      212      479       748     1025     12Sa     2044     2919    3337       3180
11.2   onm-Controlled                     12        16       27       37       55       145      254      338      513     1219     3066    3247       4234
111. To the Private Sector                     76      104      182      180       287      494      517     1044    lf9    3957       7348    9085      10280
2.3 other                                           -22      -15       -22      -39      -28     -381     -507     -557      -220   -1709    -S978   -8162      -6199
3. Capital  ExpiWlture                                   203      300       429      789      996     1338     198S     2867      4774    10730    17301   20365      32701
1. Federal                                              69      100       137      312      365      488      678     1037      17U8    4016      4239    6619     10933
2. Pt                                                  135      200       292      478      631      050     1307      1830     3006    6714    13062   13746      21768
1. PEIEX                                            63       91      127      231       285      348      469      598      953    2292      4097    4503       5998
11. other Cmntr. PEK                                48       73      113      154       221      292      509      766     1234    2977      5780    5632       8961
Ill. Other lln-Contr. PK'  mid Other AS.            24       36       S2       93       126      210      328      466      819    1446       3185    3612      6809
E. Prlory Belnce                                          -55       -U      -135     -492     -347       66      1610     1845     2047    10914    31159   43106      52969
F. Interest Paents                                         74       104      152      305     11       2122     3716     5654    13512    38702    7742   6m7        68075
1 .00stic                                               47                107      179      481     1383     2347     3705      95e    29702    51902   47322  .
of abihch: Nnetary Correction                        25       40       89       1SO 5    306      619      897     1637     63    29057    18683   15466        30370
2. foreln                                              2T       38        51      126      324      629     1163     1n7       3499     8494    14163   10028 .
3. Exchange loecee                                       0        0        0         0      372      110      206      211       415      S06     1597    2377      2506
S. Economic Balance                                      -129     -192      -293     -797    -1524    -1456    -2106    -3809   -11465   -27789   -36383  -24619    -15106          L
M. Finncial Interwdlatlmn                                 -27      -42       43        69      129       46      39       726      881      1939     6255    3187      7648         
Differeme with sces of finncins                                                          -                      .             339      1272     6096     381       4241
1. Overall slence                                        -101     -lSO     -336      -!46    -165     -1542   -250S    -4535   -12686   -31000   u4873S  -23187    -23171
J. Inflatlen Adjusted Economic asele                     -104     -152      -203     -647    -1218     -837   -1209    -2171    -4472       206    -1n701   -9153      15264
K. Overall Belnee                                        -101     -150      -336    -866    -1653    -1542   -2505    -4535   -12686   -31000   -4873s  -28187    -2317e
1. Externml owrroming                                    63       89      125      502       352      510      377      122      964      2m      17500    276       396
2. Doantic Financing                                     38       61      211      365      1301     1032     2128     4413    11722    28223   31235   25421        19210
L. De_stic Debt
1. IBM Mtthodology. End ed P*rIod.(EOP)                 556      766     1137      1798     2719     4466     7118    10764    25903    67270    04171  119067    156991
2. ISiD Method. Interest-0earine(EOP)                   179      257      419       7S6      735     1330     2260     SOS    17593    S2904    65414   97172    12729
R. P"[ik Savines                                           7S      108       137       -8     -528     -118    -121       -941    -6692  -17059   -19083   -4254       17596
Inflation Adjusted P"tic Savings                       100      148      226      142      -222      S01      776      696      302    1279       -400   11211     47966
M. inflatln Tax                                           51       69       134      201      613     1082     1349      1744     4659     9945     6015    3129       5588
Memrandum Itm:
Capital tranftHe trm F7ederal  enrrnt                  14       28       102     241       247      408      540     1077      183      4201     4934    6522      6522
to PE*a w  Other Fed.  ev. Agemies                   4        9       53      104        89      229      262      559      934      2075     3293    4503      4503
of wAih:t Controlled PEIe                    4         9       53      102       89       229      262      559      934     2004      3085    3951      3951
Man-Controlled Agenies             0         0        0        2        0         0        0        0        0       71       208     552       552
to the Private Sectoer                             10       19       49      137       158      1n9      276      51       903      2126     U41    2562       2562
......................; .................................................. ;.;...........I............................... ................. ........................................ ...........................................................
I/ It includes both VAT aid Wise (IEFtS) tes en gaatlin.
I:        .      



A3
A.  Fiscal Accounts
Table 1.2. Ptttic Sector AccountsI
29-Aug-91                                                          (As a I of GDP)
.... .... ........................................................................ .......................................................................................................................... .... ..... ......... ...  .................. .....
1978      1979      1980       1981      1982      1903       1984      19S        1986      1987      19U       1989       1990
...................................................................................................... ............................................................................................................................... ........... .....
A. Total Revewuj                                                 24.3      25.2      26.9       26.7      28.9       32.9      32.2      31.2      30.3       30.5      29.9    28.9         30.0
1. Tax * Non-Tax                                               10.6       10.8      10.5       10.4       9.2       8.8        8.7       8.9       9.2        9.0      10.8      12.3       13.2
1.1 federal Govt.                                           11.7      12.2      14.3       14.2      13.9       15.4      14.5       14.7      13.0      14.3       14.2     15.9        17.3
1.  Trasfoers from PENEX                                1.1        1.4       3.7       3.8        4.7       6.5       5.8        5.8       3.7       5.3        3.4      3.5         3.9
IL.  Trafers frm  Other PE                               0.0       0.0        0.2       0.1        0.0       0.0        0.1       0.1       0.0        0.0       0.1      0.2         0.3
Ill.  Direct & Indirect Taxes                             9.9       10.2       9.7       9.5        8.1       7.8        7.9       8.0       8.3        7.9       9.6      10.1       11.4
111.1 Direct                                       5.4        5.3       S.5        S.S       4.7       4.1        4.1       4.1       4.2        4.0       4.9       5.3        5.1
111.1.1 Personal                             2.7       2.3       2.3        2.5       2.5        1.9       1.9       1.9       2.0        1.9       2.1       0.0        0.0
111.1.2 Corporate                            2.2       2.5       2.7        2.6       1.7        1.5       1.6       1.6        1.7       1.6       2.3       0.0        0.0
111.1.3 On For.Remitt. & Other               0.5       0.5       0.4        0.4       0.5       0.6        0.6       0.6       0.5        0.4       0.5       0.0        0.0
111.2 Indirect                                     3.8        4.0       3.2        2.9       2.5       3.3        3.3       3.3       3.2        3.2       4.2       4.0        S.4
11.2.1  Sales Tmx/VAT                        1.9       2.2       1.9        1.9       1.6       2.2        2.3       2.3       2.1        2.1       3.0       2.9        4.2
11.2.2  Exciseo Taxes (l  IEPS)              1.0       1.0       0.7        0.7       0.6       0.8        0.7       0.7       0.9        0.8       0.9       0.9        0.9
11.2.3  Other                               0.9        0.8       0.5        0.3       0.2       0.2        0.3       0.2       0.2        0.2       0.3       0.3        0.3
111.3 Trad                                         0.7        0.9       1.0        1.1       0.9       0.5        0.5       0.6       0.9        0.8       0.4       0.7        0.9
111.3.1  Exports                            0.1        0.1       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.1        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
111.3.2  Isports                            0.6        0.8       1.0        1.1       0.8       0.5        0.5       0.6       0.8        0.8       0.4       0.7        0.9
IV.  Mon-Tam  Revenue                                    0.7       0.6        0.8       0.9        1.1       1.0       0.8        0.9       1.0        1.1       1.2      2.2         1.8
2. Sales of Pbtlic Enterprises (Total)                         13.7      14.3       16.4      16.3       19.8      24.1      23.5       22.3      21.0      21.6       19.2     16.6        16.8
2.1 Omatic                                                  11.3      10.7      10.4       10.0      10.8       12.4      13.4      13.8       15.1      14.4       14.6    12.3         12.1
2.2 External                                                 2.4       3.6       6.0        6.3       9.0      11.7       10.1       8.6        5.9       7.2        4.6      4.3        4.7
2.2.1 oil Exports                                       1.8       2.9        5.2       5.3        8.3      10.8       9.4        8.1       4.9       6.0        3.4      3.2         3.7
2.2.2 Other Exports                                     0.6       0.6        0.8       1.0        0.7       0.8       0.7        0.4       1.0        1.2       1.2      1.0         1.0
2.1 PENEX                                                 4.7        5.7       8.3       8.1       11.6      16.2       14.9      13.5      11.5       12.1       9.3       8.6        8.8
2.1.1 Doestic 1/                                    3.0       2.8       3.2        2.8       3.3       5.3        5.5       5.4       6.6        6.1        5.9      5.3        5.2
2.1.2 Emternsl                                      1.8       2.9       5.2        5.3       8.3      10.8        9.4       8.1       4.9        6.0       3.4       3.2        3.7
2.11 Other PE                                             9.0        8.6       8.1       8.2        8.2       7.9        8.6       8.9       9.5        9.5       9.9      8.0         7.9
2.11.1 Dometic                                     8.4        7.9       7.3        7.2       7.5       7.0        7.9       8.4       8.5        8.3       8.7       7.0        7.0
2.11.2 External                                    0.6        0.6       0.8        1.0       0.7       0.8        0.7       0.4        1.0       1.2        1.2      1.0        1.0
B. Total Expenditure                                            29.5       31.1      33.5      39.7       44.5      41.0       39.3      39.2      44.7       44.9      39.1    33.6         32.2
C. Total (Mon-Interest)Expsnditure                              26.5      27.9       29.9      34.7       32.5      28.1       26.7      27.3      i7.7       24.9      22.0    20.5         22.1
1. weags                                                        7.5       7.2        7.0       7.3       8.0        6.7       6.5        6.6       6.4       6.4        6.0      5.9         5.9
1.1 Federal                                                  3.7       3.7       3.5        3.7       4.1       3.2        3.4       3.3        .1       3.3        2.8      3.0        2.8
1.2 PE's                                                     3.7       3.6       3.5        3.6       3.9       3.4        3.1       3.3        3.3       3.2        3.2      2.9        3.1
1. PENEX                                                0.6       0.6        0.5       0.6       0.5        0.6       0.5        0.6       0.6       0.7        0.6      0.6         0.5
IL. Other Contr. PE's                                   2.6       2.5       2.5        2.6       2.9        2.4       2.3        2.4       2.3       2.1        1.9      1.8         1.9
111. Ion-Contr. PE's and Agencles                       0.6       0.5       0.4        0.4       0.5        0.5       0.3       0.4        0.4       0.4        0.6      0.6         0.7
2. Other Current Exp.(Totat)                                   10.9      11.4       13.3      14.6       14.3      13.9      13.5       14.7      15.3       12.9      11.7    10.7         11.3
2.1 Purchases of Goods & Services                         6.5       6.3        6.5       8.0        7.2       7.6        7.9       8.6       8.8        7.9       7.6      6.9         7.1
1. federal                                         0.4       0.4        0.S       0.8        0.7       0.5        0.7       0.6       0.9        0.7       0.7      0.7         0.8
11. PE's                                            6.1        5.8       6.0        7.2       6.5       7.1        7.2       8.0       8.0        7.2       6.9      6.1         6.3
11.1  Pff4EX                                    1.1       1.4        1.5       1.6       1.5        1.4       1.5        1.8       2.0        1.7       1.4      1.2         1.1
11.2  Other Contr. PE's                         4.3       3.9       4.0        5.0       4.S        5.2       5.4       S.9        5.6       5.1        4.9      4.3         4.2
11.3  Other Non-Contr. pE's                     0.6       0.6       0.6        0.6       0.5        0.5       0.3       0.3        0.3       0.5        0.S      0.6         1.0



A. Fiscal Accounts
Table 1.2. Public Sector Accounts
29 -Aug-91                                                   (As * S of GOP)
1978     1979      1980     1981      1982     1983      1984     1905     1986      1987     1988    1989        1990
2.2 Current Trusfers from federal Gov.                5.3      5.6       7.3       7.2      7.4       8.4      7.3      7.2       6.7      5.9       5.6     5.3        5.1
1. To states                                   1.0       1.1       1.7      1.9      1.7       2.1      2.2       2.1      2.1       2.2      2.2      2.3       2.5
11. To PE's                                    1.3       1.3       1.5      2.3      2.7       3.5      3.4       2.9      2.2       1.7      1.5      1.3        1.1
11.1 Controlled                            0.8      0.9       0.9       1.7      2.2       2.7      2.5      2.2       1.6      1.1       0.7     0.6        0.5
11.2  Mon-Controlled                       0.5      0.5       0.6       0.6      0.6       0.8      0.9      0.7       0.6      0.6       0.8     0.6        0.6
III. to the Private Sector                     3.1       3.2       4.1      2.9      2.9       2.8       1.8      2.2      2.4       2.0      1.9      1.8        1.5
2.3 Other                                            -0.9     *0.5      -0.5      -0.6     -0.3      -2.1     -1.7     -1.2      -0.3     -0.9      -1.5      1.6      -0.9
3. Capitol Expenditure                                     8.2      9.2       9.6      12.9     10.2       7.5      6.7      6.1       6.0      5.5       4.4     3.9        4.9
1. federal                                               2.8      3.1       3.1      5.1       3.7       2.7      2.3      2.2       2.2      2.1       1.1     1.3        1.6
2. PE                                                    5.4      6.2       6.5       7.8      6.4       4.8      4.4      3.9       3.8      3.5       3.3     2.7        3.3
1. PENEX                                             2.5      2.8       2.8      3.8       2.9       1.9      1.6      1.3       1.2      1.2       1.0     0.9        0.9
II. Other Contr. PE's                                1.9      2.2       2.5      2.5       2.3      1.6       1.7      1.6       1.6      1.5       1.5     1.1        1.3
111. other Non-Contr. PEs end Other Ag.              1.0      1.1       1.2      1.5       1.3      1.2       1.1      1.0       1.0      0.7      0.8      0.7        1.0
E. Primary laerne                                          -2.2      -2.7     -3.0      -8.0     -3.5       4.8      5.S       3.9      2.6       5.6      7.9      8.3        7.9
F. Interest Payments                                        3.0       3.2      3.5       5.0     12.0      13.0     12.6      11.9     17.0      20.0     17.1    13.1       10.2
I.Domeatic                                               1.9      2.0       2.4      2.9       4.9       7.7      8.0      7.8      12.1     15.3      13.1     9.2        0.0
of kich: Monetary Correction                          1.0      1.2       2.0       2.4      3.1       3.5      3.0      3.5       8.8      15.4      4.7     3.0        4.5
2. forelgn                                               1.1       1.2      1.1       2 .1  3.3          4.6      3.9       3.7      4.4      4.4       3.6     3.5        0.0
3. Exchwge lossee                                        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      3.8       0.6      0.7      0.4       0.5      0.3       0.4     0.5        0.4
G. Economic Blrnee                                         -5.2      -5.9   *6.5    -13.0    -15.6         -8.1     -7.1      -8.0    -14.4    -14.4      -9.2    -4.8        -2.3
N. financial Intermediatlon                                -1.1      -1.3      1.0       1.1      1.3       0.5      1.4       1.5      1.1       1.0      1.6      0.6        1.1
Difference with sources of fInancing                                      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.4       0.7      1.5     0.1        0.1
1. Overall *alince                                         -4.1     *4.6      -7.5    -14.1    -16.9       -8.6     -8.5     -9.6      15.9    -16.0   -12.3    -5.5         -3.5
J. inflation Adjusted Econmlic Islae                       -4.2      -4.7     -4.6    -10.6    -12.4       -4.7     -4.1      -4.6     -5.6       1.1     -4.5    -1.8        2.3
K. Overell Belance                                         -4.1      -4.6     -7.5    -14.1    -16.9       -8.6     -8.5      -9.6    -15.9   -16.0    -12.3    -5.5          -3.5
1. External *orrosiing                                    2.5      2.7       2.8      8.2       3.6       2.9      1.3      0.3       1.2       1.4      4.4     0.5        0.6
2. Dometic Financing                                      1.5      1.9       4.7      5.9      13.3       5.8      7.2      9.3      14.7      14.6      7.9     4.9        2.9
L. Doeatic Debt
1. IxO Methodology. End od Perlod.(EOP)                  22.3     23.5      25.4     29.3      27.7     25.0      24.2     22.7      32.7     34.8      21.3    23.0       23.5
2. IUtD Method. Interest-Bearing(EOP)                     7.2      7.9       9.4      12.3      7.5       7.4      7.7     10.7      22.1     27.4      16.5    18.8       19.0
M. Pidlic Savings                                           3.0      3.3       3.1      -0.1     -5.4      -0.7     -0.4      -2.0     -8.4      -8.8     -4.8    -0.8        2.6
Inflation Adjusted Piblic Savings                        4.0      4.6       5.0      2.3      -2.3      2.8       2.6      1.5       0.4      6.6      -0.1     2.2        7.2
M. inflatlon Tax                                            2.1      2.1       3.0       3.3      6.3       6.0      4.6      3.7       5.9       5.1      1.5      0.6       0.8
Nemorarv   I te:
Cepital Tranfers from  Federal Gowrrent                 0.6      0.9       2.3      3.9       2.5       2.3      1.8      2.3       2.3       2.2      1.2      1.3       1.0
to PE's and Other Fed. Cov. Agencies                0.2       0.3       1.2      1.7      0.9       1.3       0.9      1.2       1.2      1.1       0.8     0.9        0.7
of WiAch: Controlled PE's                    0.2      0.3        1.2      1.7      0.9       1.3      0.9       1.2      1.2       1.0      0.8      0.8        0.6
Mon-Controlled AgencIes           0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0       0.1     0.1        0.1
to the Private Sector                              0.4       0.6       1.1      2.2       1.6      1.0       0.9      1.1       1.1      1.1       0.4     0.5        0.4
.. It -         ...h..  a   ...........   taxes on gasolIne.....Aug-91..
t            1~~~~/ It Inctudes both VAT erd Exclse,(IEPS) t xex an gazotine.                                                                                                        29-Aug-91



B. National Accounts                                                      Bl.
NEX I c                                          HEX
STANDARD TABLE 1                                  9
Nationa  Accounts Suwmry                           9
(In billions   of nationa                          9
9
1986     1987     198       1989     1990     1991     1992      1993     1994     1995     1996      1997     1998     1999      2000
...................................... .............................................................................. ............. ......................... ..... ..... ... 
GDP at mrket prices          79536   193552   396073   516710   668691   S29236   965894  1115607  1265099  1434622  156734  1777165  1977985  2201497  2450266
GDP at factor coat           73-27   174U41   360506   468922   605834   751288   875100  1010740  1146179  1299767  1446641  1610112  1792054  194556  2219941
Agriculture                  7466    16676    33966    44021    59272    73503    85617    98M8    112138   127165   141535   157528   175329   195141   217192
Indu try                   26921    69909   140203   1U617   199744   247941   2O802   333567   378264   428952   477424   531372   591417   658248   732630
mining wrd quarrying        2899     9810    12776    13621    15501    19339    22527    26018    29505    33458    37239    41447    46131    51343    57145
Niwfacturing               19646    50123   106741   125875   152794   189675   220934   255178  289372   328148   365229   406500   452434   503559   560462
Services, etc.              45148   106967   221903   308072   409675   5O7791   591475   683153   74696   871505   977n76  1ou265  1211239  1348109  1500445
i0orta of GNFS               10025    24394    56461    76648   111548   147053   161727   192742   222884   265333   322781   386621   456836   518601   579031
Exports of CXFS              13655    38223    6S611    81058   102f95   120178   135061   171891   209328   258514   315084   378234   446897   505917   563425
*esoiwce balance              3629    13829     9150      4410    -3253   -26875   -26667   -20851    13556    -6820    -7697   -8387        9939   -12614   -15606
Total Expenditures           75906   179722   386923   512300   671944   856111   992560  1136458  1278655  1441441  1604431  1785552  1987924  2214111  2465873
Total consumptlon, etc       61417   142558   303713   394483   540656   644762   755586   868069   967678  1OU794  1211935  1348704  1501712  1672957  1863568
general gavwr,ant            7208    16505    32961    54460    75692    90267   105782   121530   135475   152431   169671   18818   210240   234214   260899
Private  etc                54209   126052   270751   340023   464964   55449S   64984   746539   832203   936363  1042264  115985  1291472  1438743  1602668
Statistical discrepancy        0        1        1        -1        0
Groas domestic  nvestutnt   14489    37165    83210   117118   131288   211349   236974   268389    10976   35264?   392496   436849   486212   541154   602305
GDFI                        15415    35667    75196    92620   13128    182326   222486   262811   304651   345474   384513   427963   476323   530147   590054
Nonfinanciel P". Sect    4774    10730    17301    20365    26849    28813    42450    59271    71382    80994    90113   100260   130143   142216   158286
General Goverruent
Centrot Govt.|
State wnd Local Coav                                           .                                                                                                        n
honfinnclel Pub  Ent         .t
PNfivate sctor            10641    24937    S7896    72255   104440   153512   1S0036   203540   233269   264480   294400   327703   346179   387931   431768
Chages In Stocks             -925     1498     8014    25198              29023    14488      5575     6325     7173      7984      86      9890    11007    12251
Gross dometic saving         18119    50994    92360   122228   128036   184474   210308   247538   297420   345828   384800   428462   476273   528540  5S6699
Net factor Income           -4712    -974   -16760   -19203   -21368   -18284   -21899   -25952   -28730   -33997   -37769   -42208   -46325   -49619   -53235
Net current tranfers          211      529      902      4731     6207     7443      7998     9430    10658    12124    13531    15052    16705    18203    19836
Gross national saving        13616    41789    76502   108133   109932   17632   196407   231017   279349   323955   360562   401305   446653   497125   553300
Net Indirect Taxes            6319    18710    35567    4789    62857    77948    90794   104867   11a919   134854   150093   167054   185931   206941   230325
Indirect Taxes              8541    23523    45548    56423 .             91216   106248   122717   139161   157808   17564    195488   217578   242165   269529
Subsidies                    2222     4813     6981     8456 *.           13268    15454    17850    20242    22954    25548    28435    31648    35224    39204
Gross natloNs  product       74824   183818   379313   497507   647323   810951   94399   1089655  U36369  1400625  1550966  134957  1931659  2151871  2397031
IFS convermlon factor      611)7  1378.18  2273.10  2461.47  2812.60
IEC conwersion factor      611.7n  1371.18  2273.10  2461.47  2812.60
GOP at vp (curr. mill. US  130009   140438   174243   209898   237040   27458i   312385   I3233    3438Ui   365463   388544   413230   439634   476388   5162i4
-..  . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .



B2
MxIco
STAISA  TALE 2:                                                    B. National Accounts
NXtlimal Accmata Summry
(in billilns of natiomn
1966     196      1968     1989     1990     1991      1992     1993     1994     1995     1996     197      1998     199       2000
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ... .... . ........................ ........ .............. ... ... .. .............. ......................... .. .......................... .......................................... ....
CDP et mrket priec           4736     4820      4889     5041     5236     5446     5664     5947      6244     6556     684      7228     7590     7969     88
Net Indirect Taxes            376       e6       439      46       492      512      532       559      587      616      647      e79      713      749      787
CO  at factor coat           4359     4354      4450     4575     4744     4934     5131     5388      5657    5940      6237     6549     6876     7220     7581
Agriculture                   405      412       399      381      394      408      425       446      48       492      516      542      569      598      628
Indoatry                     1474     1523      1560     164I3    1731     1803     1875     196       2067    2170      2279     2393     2512     2638     2770
ining mnd qiarryirg          174       183      184      183      189      561      583       612      643      675      709      744      781      820      861
Nwnufacturieg                996      1026     1059     1134     1193     1242      1292     1356     1424     1495     1570     1e48     1731     181       1908
Srvices, etc.                2857     285       2930     3017    3111      3235     3364     3532      3709     3894     4089     4294     4508     4734     4970
loert of GNFS                 322      338      465       553      680      808      888      918      963      1042     1168     1291     1408     1505     1583
EIporte of Clf                785      869       913      940      989     1060     1148      1265     1395     1566     1760     1950     2127     2263     2367
seseurce balence              464      531       448      387      309      252      260      347       433      523      592      659      718      758       785
Total Expenditurs            4272     428      4441      4654     4927     5194     5403     5600      5812     6033    6293      6569     6871     7211     7583
lotal- eensLption. etc       35r     3543     3603    3M         3949     4174     4424     4582     4704      4895     5156     5427     5714     6017    6332
Geral goverromnt              5e       559       556      553      562      618      655      678       696      724      763      803      846      891      937
Private  etc                 3011     2964     3047      3220     3387     3556     3770     3904     4008      41O      4393     4624    4868      5126     5394
Statistical  discrepny    -18.8       1.8      4.5       2.3  -13.49                                                                        ..
gross domestic It       t     711      745      838       881      978     1020      979     1018      1108     1139     1137     1143     1157     1194      1252
SF7 m                                  n6      821       874      991     1145     1248     1340      1438     1510     1586     165      1748     1836     1928
entn mnlm l  See.    t     284      267      214       199      210      316      362      415      435      457       480      SU       617      648      681
enral GovCermnt
Centrol Gwt.                                                                                                                   .                                       I
State  nd Local ,ev      ..            .
Nonfinancial tub. Ent      .         .        ..       .         .       .         .       .         .        .        .         -       .         .
Private Sctatr             493      S09      608       675      781      829      886      926      1003     1053     1106     1077     1131     1188      1247
Omamg   In Stacks             -6e      -31        1T        7      -13     -126     *269     -322      -331     -372    -49       -523     -591     -642      -676
Net fwetor Icm               -281     -242      -207     -187     -167     -120     -118     -127      -130     -143     -150     -158     -163     -165      -166
Not eurent trwwfe              17       22        16       50       Ty       49       47       50        52       55       58       61                          6 66  67
Gross national prodet        4455     457      4682      4854     5069     5326     5546     5820     6114      6414     673s     7071     7427     75       8201
Gross destc saving            812      936      914       913      958      872      833      919      1049     1112     1109      l1ls    1127     1158      1209
gross natioal sawing          548      716       723      775      8U       801      762      842      972      1024     1017     1018     1027     1059      1110
Caalty to lot                438      530       540      585      660      661      742      819       904     1015     1140     1263     1378     1468      1540
Teiw  of trade adjustmnt    -347      -340      -372     -355     -329     -400     -407     -446      -491     -550     -619     -687     -749     -795      -827
gross dometic Income         4389     440       4517     4686     4907     5046     5257    5501       5753     6006     6265     6541     6841     7175      7541
Groes ntioenl income         4108     4237      4310     4496     4740     4926     5139     5374      5623    5863      6115     638      667      7010      7374
..  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .



cl
IEXICO                                              C. Balance of Payments
STIAIAD TABLE 4.1:
ao nce of Payente Sumno
(in billion of US dolt
1986     196?     19U      1989     19       191      1992     1993    199       1995     1996    17        198      1999     2000
.................. ................................... . .... ........ .............. .. .. ... ... ..... ...... ................... ...................................... ... .. .
Exp.of CS (Incl. Wrkrs Re 23.86    30.106  32.216   37.713    43.61  42.258   46.267   52.560   59.797   68.9.4  79.964  91.447  103.042  113.431  122.879
Exports of GCIFS           21.873    27.61   29.055   32.863  38.389   39.794   43.681   49.827   56.900   65.855   76.671   87.948   99.329  109.192  118.700
Merchandse (FOB)          16.031   20.655   20.566   22.765   26.M    26.981   29.220   33.096   37.543   43.083   49.880   56.981   64.176   70.674   76.638
mon-factor services        5.842    6.95S    8.489   10.098   11.616   12.813   14.461   16.731   19.3S7   22.M    26.791   30.967   3S.1S3   38.818   42.063
lsports of GNIFS           16.307   17.231   24.947   31.099   39.542   48.693   52.305   55.871   60.555   67.592   78.544   89.898  101.538  112.221  121.988
NerchWilse (FOB)          11.432   12.222   18.898    23.41  29.799   38.703   41.574  44.408   48.155   53.725   62.430   71.454   go.706   09.198   96.961
Non-fwctor services        4.875    S.009    6.049    7.689   9.743    9.990   10.731   11.463   12.430   13.867   16.114  18.444   20.832   23.024   25.027
Resource blance             5.56   10.379    4.108    1.764  -1.153   -8.89    -8.624   -6.044   -3.68S   -1.737   -1.873   -1.950   -2.209   -2.730   -3.2U8
Net factor Income          -7.703   -7.059   -7.118   -7.797   -7.57s   -6.054   -7.082   -7.523   -7.809   -8.661   -9.190   -9.814  -10.296  -1O.737  -11.215
Factor receipts            1.811    2.289    2.952    3.106   3.201    2.873    2.747   3.252   3.203    3.118    2.90    2.939    3.021    3.154    3.289
Factor paymnts             9.514    9.348    10.O7   10.903   1o.n76    8.928    9.829   10.7M    11.013   11.779   12.180   12.753   13.317   1.892   14.504
Totel Interest WRE        8.375    8.325    8.711    9.274    7.679    7.221    7.969    8.851   8.815    8.732    8.393   8.238    8.2S3    8.292    8.383
Other Fector Paymants *   1.139    1.023    1.359    1.629   3.097    1.707    1.861    1.923    2.197    3.046   3.787   4.515    5.064    5.600    6.12l
Net current trutfers        0.345    0.38     0.397    1.922   2.207   2.64"    2.587    2.734    2.897    3.089   3.293    3.500    3.713    3.939    4.179
Current Receipts           0.34S    0.38     0.397    1.922    2.207   2.46      2.587    2.734    2.897    3.069    3.2      3.500    3.713    3.939    4.179
Workers remIttnces         0.18    0.207    0.209    1.744     2.02    2.464    2.587    2.73     2.89?    3.089    3.293   3.SOO    3.713    3.939    4.179
Other curr. trwfers       0.165     .17    0.188    0.178    0.187       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Currant Payments               0        0        0    0.016    0.014      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Curr.A/C Ool before off.  -1.792    3.704   -2.613   -4.111   -6.521  -12.489  -13.120  -10.833   -6.597   -7.309  -7.771   -8.26U   -8.793   -9.528  -10.324
Off. Captal Crents  I/   0.119    0.26        0.17    o.1S3    1.266       .        .        ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       .         .
Curr.A/C Sal after Off. 6  -1.673    3.968   -2.443   -3.9f8   -S.255  -12.489  -13.120  -10.833  -8.597   -730.   -7r.nH   -8.25   *8.793   -9.528  -10.324
LT Capital Inflows          0.433    4.044   -0.677    2.298    5.105  1M.534   12.741   14.042    9.481   10.156    9.615   11.056   11.166   12.448   12.807
Direct investent           1.523    3.246    2.594    3.037   2.632   11.409   10.123    9.929    7.924    8.202   8.429    9.002    0.492    9.983   1o.473
Met Lt Sorrowing           0.545    3.7n9   -1.483    -0.24    S.724    4.125    6.418    6.012    3.456    3.378    2.611    3.479    3.174    3.965   3.8341
disbursements             4.968    7.174    4.715     3.96    9.385  12.266   11.016   10.121    8.824    6.375    8.80    8.382    8.628    S.895    8.61?
repayments DUE            4.423    3.395    6.21S    4.576    6.254    8.141    4.597    4.109    5.368    4.997    6.269    4.904    5.455    4.930    4.78
Other LT Inflow  (nt)   -1.635   -2.981   -1.718  -0.49    -3.251   -0.000   -3.800   -1.900   -1.900   -1.425   -1.425   -1.425   -1.500   -1.500   -1.500
Adj. to Schdledld Debt *       0        0   0.017    0.375    3.003    2.62         -0    0.124       -0       -0        0        0       -0       -0        0
1. Debt service not Pat       0        0    0.01?    0.375    3.003    2.642       -0    0.124       -0       -0        0        0       -0       -0        0
a. Intwrest  ot Pold         0        0        0        0    0.41         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
b. Principal Not Paid        0        0    0.017    0.375    2.593    2.642       -0   0.124        -0       -0        0        0       -0       -0        0
2. Arrears led/Pr-p e         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        a        0        0        0        0        a        0
Total Other Ite_  (Net)     1.152   -2.42   -3.535    1.464    -0.55   1.169    1.148   -2.026   0.482   -1.6f    -0.675   -1.860   -0.426  *1.355  -0.983
Net short-term capital     0.694   -5.047   -0.678   -0.936     4.11    2.352    2.443   -0.458    2.062   -0.085    0.8M0  -0.319    1.164    0.286    0.711
Capital flows n.e.l.           0        0   -0.017   -0.375   -3.003   -1.183   -1.29S   -1.568   -1.580   -1.569   -1.53S   -1.541   -1.590   -1.641   -1.694
Errors nd omIsslons        0.458    2.605    -Z.84    2.7m    -1.6S5        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Chnges In net reserves      0.088    -s.57   6.638   -0.179   -2.303   -6.826   -0.769   -1.306   -1.366   -1.192   -1.169   -0.931   -1.947   -1.565   -1.500
Not credit from INF        1.091    1.103   -0.358    0.286    1.461    0.172   -0.569   -1.206   -1.266   -1.117   -1.094   -0.856   -0.447   -0.065    0.000
Reserve changes n.e.l.   -1.003   -6.673    6.996   -0.465   -3.7r6    -7.000   -0.200   -0.100   -0.100   -0.075  -0.075   -0.075   -1.500   -1.500   -1.500
Escrow Account                .
Cross Reserves (excid. Go   5.67   12.464    s.279    6.32i    9.83 
gross Reserves (inc. Col  6.674   13.692    6.327       6.74   10.217  17.346   17.546   17.646   17.746   17.821   17.896   17.97i   19.41  20.971   22.47i
Mom. Off. (Ain. sv.)(rf 611.M   1378.18   2273.1  2461.47   2812.6  3020.0  3092.0  3449.8  3678.9  3925.5  4109.5  4300.7  4499.2  4621.2  4746.6
cMa. Off. (End-of-year)(   923.5  2209.7    2281       2641  2945.4                 .
IWNYKwnuf. ( changq)         9.8      7.3    -0.7       s.7      5.7 2r  2.i                3.i      3.i      3.i      3.i      3.i      3.i      3.i      3.
Index Real Eff.0(IF)     60.623   55.756   6.548    73.78   75.422         ..       ..      ..       ..        .        .        ..       ..       .
Inice... ......a...  ... A...................ll......................................................................... l. ............. l  .......    -
I/ Indicate aove as All



Dl
D. Debt Structure
IIEX I CO
STAtDARn TaBLE 7.2:
External Debt:
(USS millions at Current
1986     1987     1988     1989     1990      1991     1992     1993     1994     1995    1996      1997     1998     1999      2000
INTEREST
Public A Pihlicly GCur. L  6175.4  6322.7  6630.9  7086.7  5364.8  5453.3  5644.8  5783.2   5526.1  5304.3  5067.0  4898.5   4728.   4549.7  4406.1
1. Official Creditora      763.S    933.9   1130.2   1124.2  1390.7   1814.3  1976.9  2070.7   2173.5  2331.1  2395.2  2485.0  2553.3  2608.2   2671.4
a. Multilateral         579.2   750.3    832.4    808.6   1004.7   1138.4  1210.2  1241.8   1299.7  1361.5  1425.2  1507.3  1564.9  1614.1   1674.0
of which IDA            0        0         0        0        0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
of Witch IRRD       395.2   505.1   573.5   567.4   751.4   890.1    941.4   937.1    951.8   971.5   998.5   1048.6  1077.3  1090.3   1106.4
b  llateral            184.3   183.6    297.8   315.6         386    675.9   766.6   828.9    873.8   969.7   970.1   977.6   988.4    994.1    997.5
2. Private Creditors      5411.9  5358.8  5500.6  5962.6    3974   3639.0  3667.9  3712.5   3352.6  2973.2   2671.8  2413.s  2174.8   1941.4   1734.7
a.  onds                408.8   364.2    411.5        458   1112.8  2736.8   2737.6  2699.4   2499.5  2282.8  2058.4  1865.6  1695.8  1519.1   1339.6
b. Commercial Banks     654.3  4679.8  4621.6  4954.2   2336.5    857.4    857.6   935.9    782.2   626.0   553.1   489.6   430.4   394.6   385.8
c. Other Private        348.8   344.8    467.5   550.4   524.8    44.9    72.7           77.2      70.8    64.4    60.2    58.3    48.6    27.7           9.2
Private Non-Guaranteed LT    1500      1369      911      793      400    802.5  1308.4  1937.5   2269.0  2460.0  2493.1   2604.4  2841.8  3079.1   3316.5
Adjust.-Interest Not Paid       0         0        0        0      410      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
Adjtut.-Arreare  Reductlon      0        0         0        0        0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Total LT Interest DOE      7675.4  7691.7   7541.9  7879.7  6174.8  6255.8  6953.2   mo.8   7795.1  7764.3   7560.1  7502.9  7569.9  7628.8   M2.6
lIf Service Charges         265.9   283.4    339.3   397.6   521.7    321.9   355.6   369.2    275.7   248.9   147.5              66.7    15.2       0.0      0.0
Interest on ST Debt           434      350      830       997      982    643.3   659.8   761.1    744.2    718.9   685.1   668.2   668.2   668.2    668.2
Total Interest DUE         8375.3  8325.1   8711.2  9274.3  7678.5   7221.0   7968.6  8851.1  8815.0  8732.1  8392.7  8237.9  8253.3  8297.1  8390.8
Arrears (Interest)             0         0        0        0        0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
Arrears (Principal)            0         0      0.9      4.4        0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
DEST OUTSTANoING 4 DIS .
Public & Publicly Guar. L 75817.8  84349.2  80589.7  76059.4  76204.2  78475.8  72666.5  70648.2  66398.5  64651.8  63024.7  61460.4  59440.6  58163.8  56701.8             a
1. Officiel Creditors    12082.2   15725  16109.9  16787.3  22690.1  24493.4  26006.8  27355.7  28621.6  29821.7  31040.4  32254.4  33258.5  34334.5  35279.8
a. Multfiateral        8176.9   10380  10332.6  10752.9  14302.5  14638.7  15169.5  15819.8  16574.1  17309.0  18180.5  19148.9  19981.0  20954.9  21840.3
of which IDA            0        0         0        0        0      0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
of which IBRO      5565.9  7346.5   7426.8  7820.8  11030.1  11210.2  11341.9  11424.1  11579.3  17M.8  12194.6  12753.1  13216.7  13581.1  13895.0
b. BlaIteral           3905.3    5345   SM.3  6034.4  a387.6   9854.7  10837.4  11535.9  12047.5  12512.7  12859.8  13105.5  13277.5  13379.6  13439.5
2. Private Creditors     63735.7  68624.1  64479.9  59272.1  53514.1  53982.4  46659.7  43292.5  3m6.9  34830.0  31984.4  29205.9  26182.1  23829.3  21422.0
a. Bonds               3375.8  286S.7   4218.1   3756.9  40315.2  42334.0  35743.3  32919.1  29992.5  27585.7  25300.9  23235.0  21009.7  18768.1  16471.9
b. Commercial Bans   55143.1  59821.6  54009.9  49402.1  6849.4  11324.6  10629.4  10140.1   7612.7  7094.7  6540.8  5a34.9  5043.0  4931.9   4820.7
c. Other Private       5216.8  5936.8   6251.9  6113.1  6349.5    323.8   286.9    233.4    171.7   149.6   142.7    136.0   129.4   129.4    129.4
Private xonC-Guranteed LT   15103    14148      5931     3971     4409  13640.0  18640.0  23140.0  27140.0  29441.0  30807.0  33807.0  36807.0  39807.0  42807.0
Totat LT OD               90920.8  98497.2  86520.7  80030.4  80613.2  92115.8  91306.5  93788.2  93538.5  94092.8  93831.7  95267.4  96247.6  97970.8  9950o.8
Use of IMF Credit          4060.1  5162.9  4804.5  5090.6  6551.3  6523.1  5954.4   4748.1  3482.3  2365.3  1271.5    415.4   -31.5    *96.5    -96.5
Short-Term Debt              5900     5800     9456    10295      9645   8445.0  8445.0   a4S.0   845.0   8445.0   8445.0  8445.0  8445.0  8445.0  8445.0
Total External Debt      100880.9 109460.1 100781.2   95416  96809.5 107083.9 105705.9 106981.3 105465.8 104903.0 103548.2 104127.7 104661.1 106319.4 107857.4
Norwndum Itoo:
S Debt on Concesslonal Te     0.6      0.6       0.6      0.6      1.6      1.7      1.7       1.7      1.8      1.7      1.7      1.6      1.5      1.4       1.3
X Debt at Variable Int.     79.2      78.3      79.4     79.4    46.3      44.4     45.3    46.6      47.2    47.8    48.2        48.1     47.6    47.2      46.3
X Bliat. Debt on Conc. To     0.4      0.4      0.4       0.4      1.2      1.3      1.3      1.4       1.4      1.4      1.4      1.3      1.2      1.1       1.0
1 Nulti. Debt on Conc. Te    0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Pref. Crqditor DS (Multi+   12.5      18.9        19    24.1    39.8       23.3X    27.7X    28.8X    26.81    28.9X    28.51    31.0X    28.6X    26.41    27.2X
Share of I&RD Portfolo         ..       ..        .
a/ Creditor detall for hi due on scheduled basli
b/ Historical years only



D2
D .   Debt Structure
ME XICo
STAN0ARD TABLE 7.1:
Externat Debtt:
tUSS millons at Current
1986     1987      1958      1989     1990      1991     1992      1993      1994     1995      1996     1997      1998      199      2000
DISBURSEMENTS
Public & Publicly Guar. L    3268       6927   4511.6   2890.2   7901.2   5843.7   5461.2   5229.8   4475.6   4874.8   5880.1   5382.3   5628.1   5895.1   5617.6
1. Official Creditors      2344.8   1786.1   2259.4   2141.2   5532.9   3611.9   3728.7   4139.1   3456.7   3872.3   4880.1  4882.3   4961.4   5061.7   4617.6
a. Multltateral           1444   1083.9   1631.1   1618.1   3646.7   1596.2   1796.8   1907.6   2046.2   2301.4   2699.4   2877.3   2853.5   2810.5   2799.0
of which IDA             0         0         0        0         0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
of tAich IBRD       1015.6    982.6   1346.8       1297   3325.7   1172.5   1127.7   1056.2   1166.8   1458.0   1873.4   2064.3   2053.5   2010.5   1999.0
b. Bilateral             900.8    702.2    628.3    523.1   1886.2   2015.7   1931.9   223i.5   1410.5   1570.9   2180.7   2005.0   2107.9   2251.2   1818.6
2. Private Creditors        923.2      5141   2252.2    749.1   2368.2   2231.8   1732.5   1090.8   10l8.9   1002.5   1000.0    500.0    666.7    833.3   1000.0
a. lords                      0        0         0         0      975   1OO0.O   1000.0   1000.0   1000.0   1000.0   1000.0    500.0    666.7    833.3   1000.0
b. Cos _rcial lanks      214.3   4464.2   1231.3       47.1    444.4   1158.4    693.3        75.4     14.0       0.1      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
c. Other Private         708.9    676.8   1020.9        702    948.8      73.4      39.2      15.4      4.9       2.4      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Private Mon-Guaranteed LT    1700        247       203      1070     1484   6422.0   5554.0   4891.0   4349.0   3500.0   3000.0   3000.0  3000.0   3000.0   3000.0
Totat LI Oisburemmnta         4968      7174   4714.6   3960.2   9385.2  12265.7  11015.2  10120.8   8824.6   8374.8   8880.1   82.3   8628.1   8895.1   8617.6
IMF Purchases                869.8    785.9    470.5   1208.9   2183.6   1283.0    332.4           0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Net Short-Term Capital                                                          0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Totat Disburseints          5837.8   7959m.    5185.1   5169.1  11568.8  13548.6  11347.6  10120.8   8824.6   8374.8   8880.1   8382.3   8628.1   8895.1   8617.6
REPAYMENTS DUE e/
PtA le I  Ptbliciy Guar. L  2433.2   2311.1   3279.5   2400.7   2615.4   4399.2   4043.4   3594.4   5018.8   3797.8   4634.6   4903.6   5454.5   4930.1   4783.4
1. Official Creditors       832.4    896.3   1266.2   1204.2   1284.S   1782.9   2215.3   2790.2   2190.8   2672.1   3661.5   3668.2   3957.3   3985.7   3672.3
a. Multilaterat          520.8    699.S    881.2    889.9        1037   1259.9   1266.0   1257.2   1291.9   1566.5   1827.9   1908.9   2021.4   1836.6   1913.7
of which IDA             0         0        0         0         0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
of which IBRD        423.8    566.7    672.5    677.3    801.3    992.3    996.0    974.0   1011.6   1258.5   1457.6   1505.8   1589.9   1646.1   1685.1
b. Bitaterat             311.6    196.8       3U5    314.3    247.5    523.0    949.3   1533.0    898.9   1105.7   1833.6   1759.3   1935.9   2149.1   1758.6
2. Private Creditors       1600.7   1414.8   2013.4  l196.5   1330.8   2616.3   i8v8.1    804.2   2828.0   1125.7    973.1   1235.4   1497.1    944.5   1I11.1
a. Bonds                 555.3    749.9   1131.7    260.5    465.5    181.0    363.5    170.5    220.1    583.1    412.3    522.8    698.6    833.3   1000.0
b. Canercial Bae*        688.2    497.2    435.2    280.9    188.8   2362.7   138.5    564.7   2541.3    518.2    553.9    705.9    791.9    111.1    111.1
c. Other Private         357.3    167.8    446.5        655    676.5      72.6      76.0      68.9     66.6      24.4      6.9       6.7       6.6      0.0       0.0
Private Non-Curenteed IT       1990     1084      2918      1800     1046   1100.0    554.0    391.0    349.0   119.o   1634.0           0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Adjust.-Prlncipel Not Pal         0         0       1I       375     2593   2641.8      -0.0    123.6       -0.0     -0.0       0.0      0.0      -0.0      -0.0      0.0
AdJLt.-Arreare  Red/Prepa         0         0        0         0        0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Total LT Repayments PA       "23.2   3395.1   6214.5   4575.7   6254.4   8141.0   4597.4   4109.0   5367.8   4996.8   6268.6   4903.6   5454.5   4930.1   4783.4
I"F Repurchases              147.1    366.8    563.2        820   1190.7   1111.0    901.1   1206.3   1265.8   1117.0   1093.8    856.1    446.8           65.0       0.0
Total LT Repay dua  + IMF   4570.3   3761.9   6M.7   5395.7   7445.1   9252.0   5498.5   5315.3   6633.7   6113.8   762.4   5759.8   5901.3   4995.1   478.4
NET FELWS
1. Official Creditors      1512.4    889.8    993.2        937   4248.4   1829.0   1513.4   1348.8   1265.9   1200.2   1218.6   1214.1   1004.1   1076.0    945.3
of which IDA             0         0        0         0         0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
of which IBRD        591.8    415.9    674.3    619.7   2524.4    180.2    131.7         82.2    155.2    199.5    415.8    558.5    463.6    364.4    313.9
CWU4iIMENTS
11t0 comitments              1272      1695      1265   2325.5      2562     2453      1915      1950     1950      1950      2000     2000      2000     2000      2000
oft wich fast Disburain       500      500       565      1750      380         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0
IDA comituentr                   0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0
oft  hich fast Dilbrin          0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0
. ,. .........._................ ...... .. .. ................... L....................................................................... ........................................... .. ............ ..................... ..........
a/ Creditor detall for h dLo on a schediled beais
b/ Historical years only



El
E. Collateral Accounts
IOvSM) *E&L11tC4 91 11194C0#0 Pt LAS CAg.N?6A9  dyo,CAPAT
FOR IL C0S62930 FloISAL PAS& It PLOW 9t e6mVC4109 91 LA  199*D  UtIICDAN
AL Jo 01 51c629911 01 990e
---t.--                             ---.---------.ree.eIOto
lost$ so'           lelto.                        Iqle-Sq6                                k-.
Close do               Reseda de       diate.   Nomads as   dilere.            gesede de      dilated    Eoseod  do       dil[sire a     ote6
Nosed.                         ~~~~~      ~~boee  Soil    .rii!..    *s%Orteeeef   jsje      oerlessese        *tite.     emefteeSee        oteths     *oteo           94
Silarog sootfeosee                 ~~A doe....,.     A       2.429.291    2.I19*291        241.214       145.2)4        11f.t16       169.916        154.131       IS4.161       46.i19
Slim,.. omeuioo,o.                 ~~A doo.oome.    9        a.ai6.*..     *.416.6s,       241.911       iis.eti        mn2,12        n,3.iso        1am,81        216.029      312161
hlio6ree  "OV.rheeoe                           A deee.ooee       c       1.1.1    1.                  au..te 241.0   19.6           111.621      312.611         111.416       111.414       19.146
Osier*e enr6aemoo                              a  ee.eoet.       9       4.0iI.62I    4.96i.621       401.441       402.441         616.442       416.1St        116.144    Eit.14            !I6
mite,.. e.orites.*at  per                                        a        .211.4l1   6.211.436        614.g4.        614.646        116.669      2166949         261.111       tol.111      061.191
Wiotee  "esoleomee                             A to per          S       1  6336   16.4611.1121i.ts.,s            1.111.911         464.911      406.912         121.666       22tlOli      961.291
Sdtreo Oedoo                                   A doemeo.om                  162.494       640.641        6.430         .1.16         16.966        26.619         11.661        10.040        -
plortere b1962..d.o                            A  @0@t                       16.161        6611 10.       .141         6.941          4.111         1.160          4.953         1.114                    U
a to Pat                    3111416       691.9)f       11.169        10.646         199114        11.339         11.611        11.624       0-
Froesso I,oreoeoo0                              469de.66st                   62.712        62.096        1.661           144         619.90         1.664         1#.971         1.111        -
to6 row                 9.211.181    241.1623.       161.016         91.266        942.961       696.31)6     1o622.6l4       266.3120
Liras $toilsome  (1)                           ato lpot                    914.711       914.1t6       94.611        04.41 1466.961.696            906.11  620.691.710         160.614
lease jep.esoes                                   doeaseoet               .12.10130        62.191     292.961          2.344        119.113          .9 1.96 #.9il               6.414        -
aIs gag                14.916.990        I11.412   S.893.964         41.1)9     12191.42)         16.963      2.406.042        62.?19 
From**. oueog                                  6 t  per                     311.164      116.661       61.01t        11.3166         -- 
Nore~. e.eoeoo4                                a dOeO.Omto                  1666.11       t66.496       11.4191       64192.122                    64.041         24.6968       04.641
a to per                 23621999    !a1*1421.6                     !!'4 1.62                     !S     0i      111.191    - 1!!! 61  --
(6) L0 *ecaetts dol prieulpol as sesetfte.p 00 461ot.o
Lee melee edjeetee som Force ImlegrmaeeI. 4. coc la IeIooleeI     fIeeel.re.
bit  de -potaggeses 4 1:4681%strelor  esere
a                               I~~~~~~e  e%11.:1



Fl
- 59 -
F. MIX OF OPTIONS CHOSEN BY COMMERCIAL BANKS
1. Mix of options chosen by non-Mexican creditors (US$ millions).
Base
a. New Money          4571.1              4571.1
of which:
Facilities 2&3   693.0                693.0
-. Discount Bonds   11927.23             18349.58
c. Par Bonds         22427.41            22427.41
Total: a+b+c      38925.74            45348.09
2. Mix of ovtions chosen by Mexican creditors (USS millions).
Base,
a. New Money           690.9                690.9
b. Discount Bonds    1424.8                2192.0
Total              2115.7               2882.9
3. Mix of options by all creditors. (US$ millions)
a. New Money          5262.0               5262.0
b. Discount Bonds   13352.03              20541.58
c. Par Bonds         22427.41             22427.41
Total: a+b+c      41041.44             48231.0



- 60 -
_   '   ____ _ .  .    ~~~~~~MIX OF OPTIONS: BY CEIT.R~ COUNRY                                                                                F2__
rals                                       O~~~~~~~~~~~~ r C I O N E S   t  Of  O  L AJ   f tS
. . ... ___-----------             ---------------------      ---------------------     ---------------------     ---------------------
T O T Ai L               Itf;  *040                    DISCOUNT lamaRE 4N OMET
hoI;lo                  ROXTO           ftOACS            KNON1          PORtr             NONTO          *OAC1
ARCENTINA                       42,295,000.00            46.:685,000.0Q   100.00                              0.00                             0.00
AUSTRAJLIAs                     lb,409,000.00            74 /j ,000 QO   34.41           141,947.000.00   6 .57 ? 0
AlUSTRIA t/                     36 ISbti. 92;. 24        97,291,987.76   7i.4S            3t,507,195.43   2$. 57                               0.00
e0tAHAAS                       34;,"017,000.00  . ...34 ,017,00t0.06  100.00                   O.QQ                             O             OQ
D"AMARA12                      767.3el  000.00         75E1 9Z7,000 00   lEq7              i. 4 o,0G4,O.00    1.10                             0.oo
PELGI6tUh                      244l,167,000U.00         21,q?1,ooo.cQo       7.1         220. 19 6, ow. 00   T0 13                             0.00
IERAUDA                          2,00.000.00O             2,000,000.0G   100.00                               tl.OO                            0.00,
RAIst7L                         99.067,76 .91                                0.00                             0.00        79,067,782.92  100.0
CANADA 1/                   S 006.405,QSJ.05         1,75Z.626,000.00   :6.32          1.2S:,171.097.04   41- j                                O.Ou
CATXAND ISLAfNDS                3 O0iO,000.00            3,090,0000   10C  J.OP                               0.00                             o OC
COLOMetA                        24,73i,000.00            24,731,000.00  IOO.fJO                               0.00                             OQ
DENA.ARK                        32,74S,000 0Q           27,412,000.00   93.92              5,264,00;.00   16.068.0
EGIPT             ,21,063.000.00                         24.0f69,004).00  100.00                              -                               0.0
FINLANO                          5,-J65,000.Oo            13:S,9,000O0    !.S.2            :"3,:5  .0 QQQ 0O.18E                                0.00
FRANCE  It                                                                  eu. 4ss6,5,9o   'I     q         ,b,5.7.....E.- , Q16,691.6l  4!2,2S7,9C7.81   12.67
GERMANY tl                  l.9955,5',4,56.74         ,$,x,6.S E.7                       ;   $75a,             :i                              0.00
SAECCE             .1. I131I  QQG.OQ                      2.161.000.00 IOQ.OC0                                 0.0                             0.00
hc..4x KON5f                    3i5., 0,40".00          j; !505 CO9.00  Ifmo                  .00                             0.t5             O.f]
HUiSAiqY                         1 ,07 ,000.00                               0.00          1,0, ^ .0 IO.u . fO. CO
i451$*                            6o,O.50~, O  Q. 0     26,367,000.00    !i.74            20,1ti'600.00qrf    ;.26                             0. 0,
IR.4                             2 QOO,OOQ.0O            2 000,000.00  105.00                                 0.00                             0. 1
IJ .A EL                         7.469,000.00             3,23,9,000.OC   4,,. 17            1 Z 1;; 000. 00   56i 65                          O.OQ
ITAI.Y It                               1,35,S,   O    S4;-,I40,662.v    11.16            lt S41 000.00    0.94                                0.00
JAFAxA 11                   6.70Z.94$5,00017         1,7#97,56i6,694.70    2i.66      J, 901 , I 0-J^.614. 2   7j. 11      1,7,.E..             O.,,;
JOD2AN                          31,27Q,OQO.00           35,:10.000 00  lOO.fJO                                o.noC.
WGUdT                           73,0:!,000.oo           72,975,000.00    99.9Z                 60!000.00      0.03                              0.0O'
LIoYA     .                     44,7297,000.00           44,72S,000.OO   10!.00                              0.00                              O.CG
LUSQH6dU16 ii                  l5 5,   IufiX.rn        104,140,639S.l   67.81             26,6 Q,QOO.OO    17.47           22',412,659.04   14 f,9
AACvAU                           2,101,003).00            2,101,0CO.Of   10u.00                               rl0 oo                            O O
ISLAYSIA                         7,7;Q,OOf0.OO                               0.00          7,7 30,0CQ.OO   IOO.OG                               0. OC
HE1, tO                     2,26 1,764,114.32               3 7o, 00t3. 0    0.0)      1,527,426.000.00    66,.74        758,963,114.31   3;.75
Nl"EfiLANOS tt        ~725,243,7ac?.56          400,442,209.24   67.53           20?,77!2.4,5.14   tg rst          32,05?,0951  sn      i *
N3RWA?                          2c,9;T,0oG.OO             7,173t000.00    tt.00           1;,00i,00G.00    62.00                                0 00
FlA!N;M                          40t0,;000.00             4,OCtQ,0OO.OO   Iv'.OO                              O.OO                              O.GO
POLAKO                             300,ocO0.00(             300,000.0-0  IL0.00                               o.or.                             010;
fuiTUCA, I/                    121,104,6741.7           OZ '710,&71.51   69.12            37,3q4,000.00   SQl.d                                 O  .00
Rl. Of lIELAIID                 3%72',000.00            26,QOQ,O00.00   1".71             9q7n.roo0.00    2J.22                                 O.0Q
S;A'Jo1 4.R.rsI                 77,3;',000.00           77,1f),4,000.00   95.56               S3s.^?o.Oo.         t         o 040.0
SOUTH rCREA                     :7, 1 1Q,120).00        -",  0,OOoc.O   9s'.71                                O.OO          l,J,I'O.OO0.r       7.2;
SPAIN                           73,19?,00'j.00)          73,1sio,o0o.w;  I6J.Ot                               0.00                              0 . 0(
iWEj0EN                          4,715ffi00.o0                               0.00          4, 71 .0!00   lr,} oro                               O.0u
SwirirERLA-9 1i               ?I1,176,905.2$           61,$-9?.2            690          2171,2.,7,00.00   2?.42            8,140,97'-67        O.8i
lE'1All   :SOs,O.t .O 9,rszS,00.00 0.00                                                                         . Q                             O.OO)
TlUltEY                          2,20'1,00;).00          2,231,000.0s  IOti.OO                                0.00                              0.00
Ur;1TE5 kxAa EXIRAIES          136,467,000.00          136,46S,000.0G   IOO.OO                                0.00                              0. cl.
UnITED KINGDtOr! J/          ..6'd8,6'4,114.76       3,03a,121,000.o1..... 5;.9EI                             ,J,' !0.! 31.43  61'?,0;4,174.75    1 1. B3
W f  r C o 'AI    C 3 11   1.11.  10 4              6714,,ov  ....Oki.  J         {    -1, i   ! V .  0 0   N . 4 4   2 ,    , 39i', 4! J . 13 |  ?    r
UptlrwUE!                        719 tor                   ,1,000.0;  It00.00                                'w.00                             0. O-
TOIAL V. Of.U04    .        )CE  .5fr:4.,    '               e,. 9,j'f,e   ':.5  I ;' .t .;             I    ;;17    4X,0.a7O                 Ito F'
..    . . .  . .. .. .. . . . .   . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .    .   . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . .



- 61 -
MIX OF OPTIONS: BY CURREPCY                                                            F3
--------  ------                  . .......... ....                   ............ ......................      ..............
.PAIS                          1 0 1 A L                TAR tONO                     DISCOUNT 30710                     NEU' MaONY
NONEDA        ------------.       --- ... ..... ... ................. ---------------------   --------------------
MtttTO                 NrtMtfO        PM1t1            rtOMbTO        ,oacr             rOIATO        FO?CT
.__.__. ... ...__._...____,_,__.__.___................................____........ .. . -------------------------------- . ,..................        _ .... ,._...............
AUSTRIA       TOTAL USO      136,19,91. 24            17,297,987.74    71.43           38,Y07,E95.48   25.57                              
onZ           74,7b8,000.00           6,43,000.00        9. 14         1,331,000.00    11.14                             0.00;
USe          72,194,0Q0.00           58,189,O000.00   63.12           34,00s,OOQ.00   34.BS                              0.00
CA!ADA        lOrAL USO  :,006,8O5,t17.05          1,753,626,000.00   !;'2    1,253,179,097.05   41.69                                   0.00
CAN          162,496,000.0                               0.00      12,4`6,000.00  100.00                               0.00
USO       2,8&9,319,000.0O        1,753,626,000.00   61.12    1,113,&92,000.00   35.68                                   o.OQ
FRANCE        IOTAL USO   t,463,97E,505.9O         2,7?4,963,?S.979   30.t9          230,1;b,631.11       6.64       436;,S Q7.I1    I2.;-
06U              740,662.44                              0.00                            7.00            740,642.44  100.00
'"             "64,000.00                               0.00            646,000.0(   100.00                             0,00
FFF       1,736,337,354.04        8 ,194,00,000.00   ims              b&t,715,000.00     0.72       491,022,354.04       5.50
USO       1,942,733,&68.44        1,3S9,097,000.00   70.47           216,0$4,000.00   Il."i         354,602,602.44    i5.26
6ERI.YY       TOTAL US3  1,995,9!4,569.74          1,690,036,960.S3  84.67           304,117,5e8.51    15.3-                             .0 0
DMK       2,67e,50b,000.00    2,521,329,000.00    7'.13              151,177,000.00      -.97                            0.o0
JSD        S41,621,000.00           206,204,000.00    49.14          213,4!7,000.00   50.Sh                              0.0Q
IT ALY        tOTAL USJ  1,54, 473,662.05          1,343,lo,6w.0;   99.1t             11,34%,000.00    0.94                              0.00
LRA       1198:1S446553.00        119$  *e4S555.00  IQU00                                0.00
USO          799,734,OOU.00        3,399,(00.00    97.16            11,34:,000.00       2.84                           0.00
JAPAN        IlIAL USD  6,10!, 94,090.49           1,77e?,56,e94.7Q   26.66    4,901,100,6'4.23   7;.11               1.,117,5 3.56       .23
*cA      36,597,400,000.00   34,8W5,00,00000    1-.2i              t,732,500,000.00       4.74                           0. 0
UED       6,4s9,641,531.56        1,554,927,000.00   24.07    4,E9'7,537,0Q0.00   75.i9               I5g177,5cl.5&      0.2)
LUIEABURSc   1OTAL US3       153,503,298.e5          104,140,I47.3!    '.e4           2?,112U,000.00    17.47         :2, AJ,69S.0A J   I:S
OFF         S12,191,717.OC                               0.00                             0.0o      Si2,19`,747.V0   l0f.00
FFF           37,245,000.00           37,245,000.00   10u.00                              0.00                           0.00
US3          132,490,000.00           97,660,000.00   73.72          2U,820,000.00   20.24             5,000,000.0o      6.04
NEIHERIiANDS ITAL USC        723,743,739.58          489,44?,2C7.24    67.53         202,702,43:.14    28.03          32,099,094.20       4.4:
oGU         363,730,000.00           332,470,000.00   11.41           31,260,000.00       8.5?                           O,0h
UsO         Si3,217,094.20           31,747,000.00    5.7.P          lai,371,00o.C'.   34.9I         32,099,0i4.20       6.02
PORTUCAL      TOtAL USli    17!,104,674.57            93,710,674.57    69.12           37,394,000.00   30.68                              0.00
FFF            5,70;,(000.00           5,705,000.00   100.00                             000                            0. ;
USO          120,11t.000.00          e2,714,0Q0.00   68.6;            37,394,000.00    3l.13                             0oo
SWrI2EiR.LND TOFAL USD    921,676,9t2,.              642,4sf.,'72.t    694            271.251,000.00   21.4 A,         6,1.972.67         0.67
SWF         351,397,134.7;          351,364,Oi'.00   1g.!?                               0.00             I3I1I4.72      0.01
VID         St07,4t7,19i.12         40a.0,0oV0.0on    5V.36          271,2,7,000.00   39.40           e,l3a,'s.2          1.19
ul1pTEO KIN61N 0TAL U5D  :,629,614,174.76          3,038,427,0('.0,  5s.96    It1772,151,000.00   31.4!              818,0;4,114.li    14.53
chi           13,912,409.58                               0.00-                           0.00        13,978.40.89   100.00
SUC            1,691,000.00                              0.00                             0.00         1,69i,ooo.co  l0o0'.
use       5.116L9,47,V5,.l8-   3,038,127,'1).0ftJ   5'.!'    I,772,153,O00.00   31.54               811,6$7,B53.5'     j  39
SIIIrttC l!lTAL t;r[ 11,119,Wr,407.43                                6781i7n L.07    :,:1 .I ,,000.OG   ici. 44  .1J, 39t,407. 4' f- ti41
Fif               73.41qr.44                             0.00                            O. (!C           73'a?0.4;  10'. O';
U-O      I  I,1i9 Y96jf.4         4 .4   44?. OQL.0 t             2.2  "1.000.0:'   29.44    2,167.3E,  .42    1. 4e
. ...............           .        ...        ............................................... .......................................... ...............



- 62 -
SUtAARY OF 1989-1992 MEXICO FINANCING PACKAGE                     05 Dec90
fond Serls    1rovwtstion   USo EquJivatent
Par fonds           latc         Par Sonds
a..........um    Ss.U....   aumgmm.b...  
DCU                            332,470,000          1.9141      173,695,209
DMK                          2,587,T66,000          1.6992    I.SZZ,931,968
FF                          i,237,550,000          S.7471    1,433,340,293
LET                     1,198,538.446,555        1255.3300      954.759,662
SF                             351,364,000          1.4m90      234.398,933
YEN                         34,854,900,000        149.1234      232.639,895
USo                         l7,67i.,818,000         1.0000   17,674,1,1,000
w      . umE.*  S..a.   uaag=a.
Totat USO EQulv.:    22.426,583,960                    22,426,583,960 (A)
Sond series    iranstatlon   USO Equivalent
Discount Bonds            Rate  *fter Gross-Up
.U.S.*.a.......... ...sU.n......  *USSCS~n
Cs                             162,496,000          1.1819      211.518,611
DOU                             31.260,000          1.9141       25,125,285
0MK                            166,154,000          1.6992      150,436,404
FF                             62,715,000          5.7471        16,788,400
TEN                         1.732,500,000         149.1234       17,790,176
YSD                         11,498,163,000          1.0000   17,689,481,538
cx Disc. Bonds              1,523,426,000          1.0000    2,343,732,308
loret Uso Equlv.:    13,295,667,270                    20,454,872,722 (a)
hew Naoncy loea
4,38$6.29,512 tC)
lotaL Now Money
Cornmitrments:    1,090,748,612 (In USO)
7OTAL BASE
CA484C);                   47,962,205,250 Note: this Includes Fecitities 243 portion
not comn Irtted to any option tMm931m ) .
Par cords:                           C6.76%
Discount Bornd:                      42.65X
New Money:                            9.15X
?acs. 2S3 Unconrafted:                1.452
100.002



- 63 -
ANNEX1
Page 1 of 1
THE 1982-83. 1984-85 AND 1986-87 DEBT RESCHEDULINGS
1.    In the 1982-83 debt renegotiation Mexico rescheduled US$23.1 billion of
commercial public debt due in 1982-84 for 8 years with a 4 year grace period.
The interest charged was 1 and 7/8 over LIBOR and 1 and 3/4 over Prime.
Simultaneously Mexico obtained new money: US$5 billion from commercial banks
and US$2 billion from the Paris Club. The new commercial loans had a maturity
of 6 years with a 3 year grace period and carried an interest equal to LIBOR
plus 2 and 1/4 and Prime plus 2 and 1/8. In 1983 the government also
rescheduled USS12 billion of private foreign debt for 8 years with a 4 year
grace period. The vehicle for this was FICORCA, a trustee of the Bank of
Mexico that provided exchange rate insurance to private firms that contracted
debt abroad by 1982. A new debt renegotiation covering commercial
amortizations falling due in 1985-90 took place during 1984-85. In total
about US$48 billion were restructured including the US$23 billion previously
restructured and the US$5 billion of new money provided in 1982-83. The US$43
billion of principal falling due in 1982-90 were rescheduled 14 years and
carried a smaller, albeit growing, spread over LIBOR (7/8 of 1% in the first
two years, 1 and 1/8 of 1% in the following 5 years and 1 and 1/4 of 1% in the
last 7 years). The maturity of the new money granted under the 1982-83
rescheduling (US$5 billion) was also extended and the spread over LIBOR and
Prime reduced.
2.    Domestic conditions in Mexico had severely deteriorated as a consequence
of the 1985 earthquake in Mexico City and the sharp decline in international
oil prices in 1986. The latter implied a Us$8 billion loss in oil revenue in
1986. In this context the IMF and World Bank supported Mexico, respectively
with US$1.7 billion and US$ 2.3 billion of new money to be disbursed over
1986-87, conditional on commercial banks providing US$6 billion of new money.
The new loan package included an IMF contingent loan for US$2.4 billion
(contingent on a further drop of oil prices and growth below a given target
for the first quarter of 1987) and a commercial bank contingent loan for
US$1.7 billion. The 1986-87 debt renegotiation comprised as well: the
rescheduling of US$ 52.3 billion of commercial loans, of which 83% were
extended for 20 years with a 7 years grace period, and the spread over LIBOR
was reduced to 0.8125S and the restructuring of US$9.7 billion of private
foreign debt managed by FICORCA for a 20 year period with 7 years grace.



- 64 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
MACROECONOMIC STABILIZATION
1.    In late 1987 the Government implemented the "Economic Solidarity Pact"
(Pacto), an agreement between business, labor, and government which called for
accelerated structural reform, further tightening of fiscal and monetary
policy, a freeze of minimum wages and of basic public and private sector
prices, and, the cornerstone of the "Pacto", a freeze of the nominal exchange
rate against the U.S. dollar. This partial freeze was extended at three-month
intervals through the end of 1988, and renewed, with important modifications,
by the new Mexican Administration under the name of "PECE" (Pact for
Stabilization and Growth). The main adjustments brought about under the PECE
initially were one-off catch up increases in selected public sector tariffs
and in prices of key inputs, adjustments in the minimum wage, and a daily
adjustment of the exchange rate of about one peso against the U.S. dollar
during 1989. In succesive PECE renewals contractual wages were liberalized, a
growing portion of price controls were liberalized and the daily rate of
adjustment of the peso against the US dollar was reduced to 20 cents for 1992
(a 2.4% annual devaluation). The Pacto also brought about a further
tightening of fiscal policy, the primary fiscal surplus rose to an average of
8% of GDP in 1988-90. This helped weathering the initially low credibility of
the Pacto by preventing that high domestic interest rates lead to an explosive
domestic debt service.
2.    On almost every target that is under direct or indirect governmental
control, performance under the "Pacto" and "PECE" has been exemplary, in some
instances going beyond what was originally planned. For example, after
adjusting for changes in world oil prices, interest rates, and gross external
financing, Mexico satisfied all of the performance requirements set out in the
new Extended Agreement with the IMF, often by substantial margins. In trade,
the Government had originally committed to a three-year program of reforms
supported by the Bank. These reforms were designed inter alia to lower the
maximum import tariff to 30% ad valorem by the end of 1988. In fact, during
the first month of the Pacto, December 1987, tariffs were lowered such that no
tariff exceeded 20%, i.e., 10 percentage points lower than originally agreed
and one year ahead of schedule. As yet another example of fiscal prudence the
proceeds from the 1990 oil windfall and from the privatization of commercial
banks and TELMEX were deposited in a contingency fund. In September, 1991 the
Government applied 20 billion pesos (about US$6.6 billion) from the fund to
reduce domestic public debt held by the Banco de Mexico.
3.    The fiscal measures, backed by the temporary exchange rate freeze and an
array of formal and informal wage and price controls, have had a dramatic
success in reducing the rate of inflation, from 159% in 1987 to 20% in 1989.
Some rebound occured in 1990, when inflation reached 30%, due to price
liberalization but the downward trend was resumed in 1991. At the same time,
the economy has shown encouraging signs of economic recovery, led by a strong
resurgence of private investment. Output growth was 3.2% in 1989, 3.9% in
1990 and is estimated to be 4% in 1991. Interest rates have declined to



- 65 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
record low levels for the last 15 years; they have declined by about 20
percentage points within days after the announcement in July 1989 of the debt
reduction agreement between Mexico and its commercial bank creditors. The
sharp drop stems, in all likelihood, from an improved climate of confidence
fostered by the overall consistency of the economic program which was, in
turn, fed by the 1990 debt agreement, the commercial bank's reprivatization,
and discussions on the North America Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Also
reflecting improved confidence in the economy Mexico began to receive massive
private capital inflows in recent years, on average US$ 9 billion in 1989-90
and an estimated US$17 billion in 1991.
4.    The current account balance has deteriorated from a 1988 deficit of US$3
billion to an estimated deficit of about US$11 billion in 1991. This is
largely due to higher imports drawn in by accelerating private sector
investment and, to a lesser degree, lower private saving. Public saving
actually increased. However, manufactured export growth continues at an
annual rate of about 10% and international reserves experienced a sharp
recovery in to reach an estimated level of US$ 17 billion by the end of 1991.
In short, while adjustment is by no means complete, the progress which has
already been achieved augurs well for a period of sustained growth.



- 66 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
STRUCTURAL REFORMS IN MEXICO
1.    Mexico has transformed itself into one of the most open economies in the
world through a trade reform supported by four policy-based loans provided by
the Bank. Trade liberalization to date has lowered the percentage of domestic
(non-oil) tradeable production covered by import quotas from 100% in 1984 to
less than 20% at present. Maximum import tariffs were sharply cut down to 20%
and the average tariff is now 12.5%. Non-oil merchandise exports, which
represented less than one-third of total exports in 1984, have doubled their
share since then.
2.    These "core" reforms have been complemented by many others.  Recognizing
that the era of public sector-led growth had passed, the Government took a
number of measures to stimulate greater private investment. In May 1989,
foreign investment regulations were considerably relaxed and made more
transparent. A long-standing prohibition against majority foreign ownership
was removed, the fishing, petrochemical, and mining sectors were opened to
foreign investors for the first time, the licensing of proposed foreign
investments under US$100 million was made automatic in those sectors, and
approval of larger investments became automatic following a 45-day waiting
period, unless the Government interposed formal objection within that waiting
period. In most sectors 100 percent foreign ownership is allowed, in some
sectors where foreign participation was previously banned a 49 percent
minority stake is permitted, with the exception of brokerage houses and banks
where the limit is 30 percent. Foreigners are now allowed to purchase
securities, including government paper, in the Mexican stock market.
Portfolio investment in 1990 was US$2 billion and more than US$6 billion is
expected for 1991. Since 1986, the tax system underwent a series of reforms
bringing marginal tax rates more in line with levels in major industrial
countries, encouraging the repatriation of flight capital, and increasing the
sanctions for tax evasion. Also, profits are for tax purposes now adjusted for
the effects of inflation on assets and liabilities, and the previous bias
against equity finance has been reduced substantially.
3.    To encourage improved mobilization of domestic savings, the Government
initiated a parallel process of financial market liberalization, supported by
a Financial Sector Adjustment Loan from the Bank. Commercial banks no longer
face any ceilings on the deposit interest rates they can charge; the system of
forced allocation of commercial credit towards favored sectors has been
abolished and credit subsidies through official development banks have been
reduced significantly. The financial system has been growing rapidly: the
ratio of private sector financial claims on the financial system jumped from
34% to 44% of GDP between 1988 and 1990. The stock exchange has increased by
350% in dollar terms between the end of 1988 and mid-1991. Moreover, the
development banks in the public sector have been significantly restructured
and their balance sheets cleaned up.
4.    To reduce the role of the public sector in production, about 900 state-
owned enterprises were sold, transferred, or liquidated from 1983 to the
present. Many large-scale enterprises underwent major financial and partial



- 67 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
managerial restructurings. More recently, the national telecommunications
company was sold out (the government now only holds a minority stake in
TELMEX) and the largest commercial banks were privatized (about US$ 10 billion
is expected from bank privatization alone). The loss making steel company
SIDERMEX was also sold recently. An action plan for initiating widespread
deregulation in telecommunications has been approved. A radical deregulation
of the transport sector has already been implemented. Such deregulation is
useful in its own right, but it also increases the efficiency gains from the
trade reforms undertaken earlier.
5. Negotiations on the North America Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) are well
underway but it seems unlikely that a draft will be ready by the first quarter
of 1992. One of the most contentious issues is the definition of the rules of
origin. In the key automobile industry, while Canada and the US want a 70%
domestic content, Mexico is pressing for 50 percent. Agriculture is one area
were liberalization may take a longer period. This is because some 20 million
Mexicans and their dependents would be affected, and a rapid liberalization
could cause strong migration pressures. On the Mexican side there seems to be
reluctance to an immediate opening of the financial sector and to surrendering
PEMEX's oil monopoly. On the US side the main concerns are about the
environment and labor.
6. A profound transformation of the agricultural system is being pursued.
The system constructed after the Mexican revolution relied on perpetual land
reform, communal ownership of land (the "ejido") and heavy Government
intervention in output and input prices. The system was further distorted by
Government control of agricultural marketing and subsidized credit. The
reforms in the agricultural sector have been towards more reliance on market
forces. Subsidies on inputs such as fertilizer, electricity and water have
been reduced. The rural financial system has been reformed and credit
subsidies have also been significantly curtailed. Output pricing has been
substantially liberalized and protection to agriculture reduced, with the
notable exception of maize and wheat.
7.    The most recent and far reaching proposal is the constitutional reform
to the agrarian law. The present law provides every Mexican with the right to
land, creating uncertainty for landowners. In addition there are restrictions
on land use and on maximum size farms. Ejido land cannot be pledged as
collateral for credit and cannot be rented or exploited through sharecropping
or other tenancy arrangements. The proposed constitutional reform would
firmly establish private property rights to land by abolishing the
constitutional obligation to distribute land and authorizing domestic and
foreign investment in agriculture. Major reforms in the ejido system are also
envisioned. Under the new system, the ejidatarios would have security of
tenure, the option to remain on communal property or to become individual
proprietors, be allowed to lease out their land, and to enter into joint
ventures with other ejidatarios or the private sector (foreign and local).
The implementation of these reforms is expected to boost productivity by
stimulating investment and promoting a more efficient use of land.



- 68 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
PRE-DEAL DEBT STRUCTURE AND MEDIUM-TERM FINANCE REOUIREMENTS
Debt Structure
1.    At the end of 1988, Mexico's external debt was at $100.4 billion. Of
this total, most was held by commercial creditors (see Table 1), with the
remainder held by official creditors. Among official creditors, the Bank held
$7.4 billion and the IMF $5 billion. Of the commercially held debt ($70.6
billion), a small amount ($5.1 billion) was never rescheduled. The bulk of
this $5.1 billion consisted of PEMEX liabilities ($3 billion) that
traditionally have been rolled over automatically.
Table 1: MEXICO: EXTERNAL DEBT BY CREDITOR AS OF END OF 1988
(US$ billion)
Commercial banks:                       70.6
of which to:
Public Sector             65.1
of which:
Rescheduled           37.9
New Money             14.8
non-rescheduled        5.1
Inter-Bank             7.3
Private Sector                    5.5
Other Creditors:                        29.8
of which to:
Public Sector                    28.8
of which
IBRD                7.4
IMF                 5.0
Bilaterals          8.7
Bonds               3.7
Others                      4.0
Private Sector                    1.0
TOTAL                                  100.4
Medium-Term Financina Reauirements
2.    Mexico's total gross financing needs over the 1989-94 period (based on
estimates at the time of deal negotiations) amounted to $51.1 billion (Table
2). This level of financing accommodated a growth target of an average 4%
over the six years, provided, however, that the non-interest current account
would generate a surplus of 2.4% of GDP on average. At prevailing interest
rates and for the given structure of the country's debt, this led to a
cumulative current account deficit of around $23 billion (around 1.5 percent
of GDP on average). In addition, reserves were expected to increase by $3.1



- 69 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
billion, as stipulated under the currently operative IMF Extended Fund
Facility, raising the total to $26 billion. Total financing requirements
included, in addition, the scheduled net amortization payments to commercial
banks, bondholders, suppliers and holders of private non-guaranteed debt,
about US$18.3 billion over the same period.
Table 2: MEXICO'S FINANCING NEEDS AND SOURCES 1989-1994 (bUS$) /
Needs                                 Sources
Current Account deficits              Direct Foreign Investment       21.9
and reserve changes :    26.2         International Financial
Institutions                3.4
Net Scheduled Amort.:    18.3                   of which:
of which to:                                       IBRD:         4.93/
Comm. Banks  12.7                               IMF :-1.33/
Bonds          1.2                 Bilaterals                       2.3
Priv.Non-                          ------------------------------------
Guar.Debt    4.3                  Subtotal                        27.6
Suppliers     0.1
Other Capital Outflow       6.52/     FINANCING GAP                   23.5
Total                     51.1        Total                            51.1
Notes:
1/ Pre-deal projections included in the Report and Recommendations of the
President to the Board (totals may not add up due to rounding error).
2/ "Other Capital Outflows" is the bookkeeping counterpart to the current
account item "imputed interest earnings on private assets held abroad."
3/ This does not include additional disbursements of US$ 950 million and
USS 600 million under the Interest Support Facilities of respectively the
Bank and the IMF.
3.    To meet the above needs, funding was expected to be available from net
lending by bilaterals and the international financial institutions. In
addition, substantial direct foreign investment (DFI) was projected to take
place in response to the sound economic reforms and consistent policies of the
Government, including the recent liberalization of the foreign investment
regime. However, Table 2 indicates that funds available from these sources
fell short of gross financing needs: the financing gap was projected at $23.5
billion cumulatively over the period ending in 1994, or almost $4 billion per
year. This included amortization on commercially held debt ($12.7 billion).
Therefore, the corresponding net financing required from debt service
reduction, new money and return of Mexican flight capital was $10.8 billion.
Net cash-flow savings implied by the deal covered approximately half of the
financing gap.



- 70 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 1
THE INTEREST SUPPORT LOAN AND BANK SUPPORT FOR THE DEBT AND DEBT
SERVICE REDUCTION PLAN
1.    The Interest Support Loan is part of the Bank's support for the Debt and
Debt Service Reduction plan of the Government of Mexico which included the
following elements:
(a) Release of set asides of US$ 375 million, consisting of US$125
million under each of the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (3085-ME), Public
Enterprise Reform Loan (3086-ME) and the Industrial Sector Policy Loan (3087-
ME), for financing collateral on discount bonds to be issued for reducing the
stock of commercial bank debt of the United Mexican States;
(b) Allocation and release of additional net asides totalling US$375
million, consisting of $150 million under the Fertilizer Sector Loan (2919-
ME), US$ 175 million under the Agricultural Sector Loan (2918-ME) and US$50
million under the Steel Sector Adjustment Loan (2916-ME), for financing
collateral on discount bonds to be issued for reducing the stock of commercial
bank debt of the United Mexican States;
(c) Approval of an Interest Support Loan to the Banco Nacional de
Comercio Exterior, S.N.C. with the guarantee of the United Mexican States for
the equivalent of US$1.26 billion for financing collateral in respect of
interest payments on discount and par bonds to be issued for reducing the
stock of commercial bank debt and debt service payments of the United Mexican
States;
(d) Waiver of the negative pledge restriction in existing loan and
guarantee agreements between the United Mexican States and the Bank to permit
a pledge of up to US$7.5 billion equivalent by the United Mexican States as
collateral for the principal or interest payments of discount and par bonds to
be issued for reducing the stock of commercial bank debt and debt service
payments of the United Mexican States;
(e) Restructuring of the Bank's guarantees of US$750 million under
"Facility 2" and "Facility 3" of the 1987 Multi-Facility Agreement.



- 71 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 5
TERMS OF THE 1989-90 DEBT AGREEMENT
1.    The debt agreement, signed in February 1990, consisted of a menu of
financing options which included two debt and debt service reduction
facilities and four new money facilities. On the same day, the Government of
Mexico disseminated a term sheet to all of its commercial bank creditors and
invited them to participate in the financing operation. The following were
the summary terms of the financing options offered by Mexico to its commercial
bank creditors under the 1989-92 Financing Package:
Debt and Debt Service Reduction Options
Option A: Collateralized Floating Rate Discount Bond Exchange.
Creditors may exchange eligible debt for new collateralized floating
rate discount bonds issued by the United Mexican States in a principal
amount equal to 65% of the principal amount of the elegible debt offered
for exchange. The new bonds will be in registered form, will mature in
a single installment on December 31, 2019 and will bear interest at a
rate of 13/16% per annum over the six-month LIBOR rate for the currency
in which the bonds are issued. (Bonds will be issued in: Canadian and
U.S. Dollars; Belgian, French and Swiss Francs; Deutsche Marks; Dutch
Guilders; Italian Lire; Japanese Yen; and Pounds Sterling). Payment of
the full principal amount of the Discount Bonds on December 31, 2019
will be secured by a pledge by Mexico of zero-coupon U.S. Treasury
obligations (or other comparable collateral for other currencies).
Payment of interest will be secured by a pledge by Mexico of cash or
permitted investments in the currency of the bonds in an amount equal to
eighteen months' interest (calculated at a constant interest rate of 10%
per annum in the case of discount bonds issued in US dollars).
Option B: Collateralized Fixed Rate Par Bond Exchange.
Creditors may exchange eligible debt for Collateralized Fixed Rate Par
Bonds issued by the United Mexican States in a principal amount equal to
100% of the principal amount of eligible debt offered for exchange. The
Fixed Rate Par Bonds will also be in registered form; will be issued in
the same ten currencies as under Option A above; and will mature in one
maturity on the same day as the Floating Rate Discount Bonds. The
interest rate payable on the Fixed Rate Par Bonds will be 6.25% per
annum for those issued in U.S. dollars and corresponding rates for those
issued in other currencies (3.81% for yen, 5.31% for Dutch florins,
5.01% for DM, 6.63% for French francs, 10.75% for Italian lire and 3.75%
for Swiss francs). Principal and interest payments on the Fixed Rate
Par Bonds will be secured in the same fashion as for the Floating Rate
Discount Bonds, except that instead of using the assumed constant
interest rate concept, the interest payments on the Fixed Rate Par Bonds
will be secured to their full contractual levels.
New Money Options



- 72 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 5
Option C: 1989-92 New Money Credit Agreement.
Lenders may elect to commit to lend up to 100% of their New Money
Commitment (defined as 12.5% of Facilities 2 and 3 advances under the
1987 Multi-Facility Agreement and 25% of all other eligible debt) in the
New Money Credit Agreement which will provide the United Mexican States
(with an undertaking by Banco de Mexico to provide foreign exchange)
with a 15 year (7 years grace) loan at an interest rate of (a) 13/16%
over LIBOR, or (b) 13/16% over the three months Certificate of Deposit
rate or (c) a fixed rate calculated to provide a comparable yield to
maturity as the floating rate options. The loans will be made in the
same currencies as the Debt and Debt Service Reduction Bonds, except
that European Currency Units can also be lent under the New Money Credit
Agreement. Amounts under this Agreement will be available for
disbursement in six semi-annual tranches commencing on December 1, 1989
and concluding in July 1992. The first tranche will permit the
disbursement of 40% of the loans and each subsequent tranche will permit
the withdrawal of 12%.
Option D: New Money Bonds.
Each creditor may elect to purchase New Money bonds in an amount up to
50% of its New Money Commitment, although not more than $500 million of
New Money bonds will be issued in total. New Money Bonds will be issued
by the United Mexican States; they will be in registered form, issued in
U.S. dollars; and will bear interest at the rate of 13/16% over LIBOR.
They will be issued on the date of the borrowing of the first tranche
under the New Money Credit Agreement, and will be repayable in equal
semi-annual installments beginning in 1997 and ending in 2004 (15 year
maturity, 7 year grace).
Option E: Onlending Facility.
Up to a limit of 20% of its New Money Commitment, each creditor may
elect to make advances to a trust established by Mexico (with Banco de
Mexico as trustee) for the purpose of onlending funds to Mexican public
sector borrowers with the guarantee of the United Mexican States. These
advances will have the same repayment schedule as the loans made under
the New Money Credit option (15 years maturity, 7 years grace), at an
interest rate of (a) 13/16% over LIBOR, or (b) 13/16% over the three
months Certificate of Deposit rate. Advances made under the Onlending
Facility may be in any of the currencies permitted under the New Money
Credit Agreement; and the same restriction on availability applies as
the one on loans under the New Money Credit Agreement.
Option F: Medium-Term Trade Credit Facility.
Up to a limit of 20% of its New Money Commitment, each creditor may
elect to make advances to a trust established by Mexico (with Banco de
Mexico as trustee) for the purpose of financing certain eligible trade
credits (e.g., unguaranteed portions of bilateral trade credits to



73 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 5
Mexican public sector borrowers, or trade credits to Mexican private
sector borrowers for transactions approved by Mexico). The Medium-Term
Trade Credit Facility will have the same primary terms and conditions as
the Onlending Facility.
2.    Creditors holding claims in their home currency could, if that home
currency was not the US dollar, choose whether to maintain the original
currency denomination or switch into US dollars. If they have chosen to
remain in their non-dollar home currency, the total funds devoted to
enhancement could not exceed what would have to be provided for an equivalent
dollar claim. - Banks holding Mexican obligations contracted in the 1983-88
period could reschedule them to 7 years grace with 15 years maturity to the
extent they were not swapped for par or discount bonds. Mexico's external
creditors provided all the necessary waivers to make feasible the issue of new
debt and debt service reduction instruments with credit enhancement.
Debt-Equitv Conversion
3.    Banks participating in the 1989-92 financing package had access to a
debt/equity program which authorized up to $3.5 billion. This program was
limited to public sector companies that are being privatized and to qualified
infrastructure projects. The entire debt-equity swap quota was over-suscribed
in two auctions but, as the secondary market price shot up (de facto
eliminating the relatively small subsidy), the acquired debt-equity swap
rights were not exercised.
Recapture Clause
4.    Banks that have chosen discount or par bonds were eligible to recover
some of the money given up through a "recapture clause". Under this clause,
beginning July 1996, 30% of the additional oil revenues Mexico gets if the
price of oil rises above $14 per barrel (to be adjusted for US inflation),
will accrue to the banks that have granted debt and debt service relief. The
total amount to be recaptured, however, would not exceed in any year 3% of the
nominal value of the debt exchanged for debt reduction instruments at the time
of the exchange (i.e. there was no indexation of this cap). Furthermore, the
amount available under this clause was scaled back by the percentage of the
total debt brought under the two debt reduction options.
Credit Enhancement
5.    All discount and par bonds would be repaid in a single installment on
December 31, 2019. The principal would be secured by the pledge of zero
coupon US Treasury obligations (or other comparable securities for bonds in
other currencies) with a maturity date matching that of the Mexican bonds. In
1/ There is one exception to this rule. Up to 5% of the Yen-denominated debt
held by Japanese creditors is eligible for full collateralization of principal
through zero coupon bonds and 18 months of interest coverage.



- 74 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 5
addition, interest payments would be partly secured by a pledge of cash or
permitted investments in the relevant currencies for an amount equal to 18
months of interest payments due. / The securities and cash pledged as
collateral are held in special collateral accounts managed by the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York, the collateral agent.!/ Creditors' debt service
would be paid out of these collateral accounts in case the Government failed
to make interest payments for longer than 30 days, for as long as there are
funds in the accounts. To enable establishment of the special collateral
accounts, waivers of the negative pledge restrictions were necessary and have
been received from Mexico's commercial bank creditors, IDB and IBRD.
6.    The Government was entitled to buy back any of the newly issued discount
or par bonds if (a) it is current on interest payments, and (b) the collateral
account for interest support is either not drawn upon or replenished. This
latter restriction lapses after end-1994.
7.    To implement Mexico's credit enhancement scheme for the discount and par
bonds, it was necessary for the Government to obtain limited waivers of the
restrictions against giving security on other external debt -- the negative
pledge restrictions -- contained in agreements that Mexico has entered into
with the Bank, IDB and other external creditors including the commercial
banks. Mexico requested and obtained from the Bank, the Japan Exim Bank, the
IDB and commercial creditors the necessary waivers. In particular, the Bank
did consent to the pledge by the Government of collateral up to US$7.5 billion
for the principal and interest payments on the discount and par bonds.
Individual holders of outstanding Mexican bearer bonds were granted an equal
and ratable security on their outstanding Government obligations; these bonds
amounted to some US$163 million, and the required collateralization cost was
US$24 million. As the Morgan bonds were secured and had no negative pledge
restriction, those bond holders were not consulted.
8.    Finally, to facilitate the implementation of the debt deal the Bank had
to restructure US$750 million of guarantees under "Facility 2" and "Facility
3" of the 1987 Multi-Facility Agreement. The Bank provided guarantees up to a
total amount of US$750 million to guarantee 50% of the principal at final
maturity of each of a US$1 billion "Facility 2 - Cofinancing New Money" and a
US$500 million "Facility 3 - Growth Cofinancing"under Mexico's 1987 Multi-
Facility Agreement. It was agreed that the entire Facility 2 and 3 loans
(US$1.5 billion) would be brought in the new money base. However, the new
money base in respect of Facility 2 and 3 loans were limited to the
unguaranteed portion, i.e. 50%, or US$750 million. Thus, as stated in the
term sheet, commercial banks have been invited to commit new money up to 25%
of the unguaranteed US$750 million.
2/ That is, covering three semi-annual interest payments.
3/ More than one account is used to secure interest payments denominated in
different currencies.



- 75 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 5
9.    Under the 1989 agreement Mexico or any Mexican governmental agency were
allowed to purchase diucount and par bonds at any time by tender or in the
open market at any price. Upon cancellation of the bonds redeemed or
purchased, the pro-rata amount of the principal and interest collateral for
such bonds would be released to Mexico.



- 76 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 5
CALCULATION OF MARKET VALUE OF MEXICAN CLAIMS
1.    Why claims have to be valued?  Estimates of the market value of
commercial claims before and after the agreement are necessary since the face
value of claims alone does not indicate the cost or gain; the difference in
market value then represents the value accruing to the banks. It is tempting
to use the secondary market prices quoted by traders and brokers before and
after the agreement as a starting point for such an analysis. One would then
equate the gains of the banks associated with the injection of official funds
to the difference in market value of the commercial claims between say March
1989, the announcement of the Brady plan, and early 1990, the time when the
agreement was concluded and claims were reduced.
2.    However, the result of such an exercise could be far off since for this
kind of analysis secondary market prices suffer from a number of shortcomings.
First of all, until recently, volumes of trade in the secondary market have
been low, the market has been illiquid and easily influenced by a single,
relatively small trade. Also, regulations under which commercial banks
operate heavily influence prices and have been changing over the period
considered. Also, prices over the period of time when the agreement was
negotiated were influenced by a number of exogenous factors, most notably the
oil price. This clearly contaminates the comparison between ex-ante and ex-
post prices as a measure of gains accruing to banks. Also, ex-ante prices
incorporate the market's anticipation of the upcoming debt reduction
agreement, further contaminating them. Moreover, secondary market prices for
sovereign debt were very volatile in the period leading up to the Mexican debt
negotiations, fluctuating between 35 and 40 cents most of the time. Finally,
the Mexico agreement involved the creation of claims with different seniority
status (the new money claims are junior to the debt relief bonds); this too
makes an evaluation using secondary market prices alone difficult, because the
new money claims to date are not quoted. The use of secondary market prices
is further complicated by the fact that ex-post no prices of pure Mexican
commercial claims are quoted. The only market prices available are those of
the debt relief bonds which have third-party guarantees in the form of
principal collateralization and rolling interest guarantees. Consequently,
the prices of these bonds will reflect the expected repayment by Mexico as
well as expectations regarding the repayment from the collaterals. Simply
comparing the ex-ante market value with the ex-post market value of the
commercial claims would involve comparing claims of a very different risk
nature.
3.    These considerations point to the need for an analytical pricing model
of sovereign claims with and without third-party enhancements. Such a model
will allow a benchmarking by pricing the claims before the deal and the new
instruments afterwards using the same model. The choice of a particular
pricing model should be led by the nature of the repayment behavior on a
sovereign claim, the different seniority structures of the old and new claims,
the particular enhancements schemes used, and the contingent nature of some of
the repayment obligations (the recapture clauses).



- 77 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 5
4.    Option pricing is a logical choice.  Methodologies developed in finance
for the pricing of contingent claims can be adapted to the problem of pricing
sovereign debt. In fact, option models have been used by Genotte et alii
(1987), Cohen (1989), and Dixit and Bartolini (1990).JI The main issue with
option pricing is to specify the underlying stochastic process driving
Mexico's repayments to the commercial banks. In general, repayments will be
difficult to predict and be the result of a complex bargaining process between
the country and its banks. They will be influenced by factors such as export
earnings, terms-of-trade shocks, the benefit of future access to international
capital markets, the position of other lenders, and domestic political and
economic factors (Cohen (1991) Y).
5.    The following procedure was therefore used for deriving the stochastic
process for the net amount of financing available each period to service
foreign commercial bank debt. First, non-oil exports, import requirements and
net scheduled capital in- or outflows consistent with the constraints imposed
by domestic economic and political factors, were modelled to obtain the
expected non-oil, non-interest current account (see van Wijnbergen (1989)).
Second, the non-oil, non-interest current account is adjusted for debt service
to more senior claim holders, for foreign direct investment flows and for
capital account transactions such as reserve accumulation (see van Wijnbergen
and Pena (1989) l). Third, oil earnings are added to the flow. In
accordance with the large share of oil in total exports and the very high
variance of oil prices, the behavior of oil exports introduces the stochastic
element in the net amount of financing available to service commercial bank debt./
l/ Genotte, H., H. Kharas and S. Sadeq (1987), "A Valuation Model for
Developing Country Debt", World Bank Economic Review, Vol 1, No 2; Cohen, D.
"A Valuation Formula for LDC Debt with some Applications to Debt Relief",
forthcoming Journal of International Economics; Dixit, A. and G. Bartolini
(1991) "Market Valuation of Illiquid Debt and Implications for Conflicts Among
Creditors", IMF Working Paper 90/88. These papers focus on the option a
creditor has either to call a default or to collect partial payments and
reschedule the remaining part of the claim falling due. We focus on the
option the country has not to service its debt fully in periods of low foreign
exchange availability.
2/ Cohen, D. (1991), "Private Lending to Sovereign Nations: A Theoretical
Autopsy", MIT Press, Cambridge, USA.
3/ van Wijnbergen, S. and S. Pena (1989), "Mexico's External Debt: Structure
and Refinancing Options", mimeo, World Bank.
4/The net amount financing available for debt service may itself depend on the
debt reduction agreement and the provision of third party guarantees. However,
theory gives no clear indication which way this effect goes. On the one hand,
strategic interactions could reduce the financing available from the country
once a guarantee is provided because of moral hazard. On the other hand, such
interactions may increase available financing because of the stronger
bargaining power of the third party providing the guarantee (see Bulow and



- 78 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 5
6.    Pricing Sovereign Debt With the above framework, option pricing model
can be introduced. Each period Mexico will pay to its creditors as much as
available financing allows, but never more than its nominal obligations in the
period:
(1) R-(t) = min [Rt,FXLj
R-(t) is the actual repayment, Rt the nominal obligation, and FX, the resources
available to service commercial debt, all in period t. One limitation of this
approach which is worth mentioning is that it implicitly assumes that the
amount not paid is forgiven. Equation (1) can be rearranged to yield:
(2)  R-(t)  =   - max[O,RR - FXt]
But max(O,Rt - FX1J equals the value of a put written on FXt with a strike
price of Rt. Thus the uncertain repayment can be represented by a certain
repayment R, minus a put. Having thus replicated the payoff stream at
maturity, its current value can be obtained as the current value of the
certain repayment R, minus the current value of the put:
(3)   V(R,) = exp(-rt)*R, - P(FX,,Rt,r,t,a).
where r is the (continuously compounding) interest rate and P(FX,,Rt,r,t,a) is
the current value of a put written on FXt with exercise price Rt, interest
rate r, maturity t and standard deviation a.2 The current value of a loan
with a series Rt falling due over time (where Rt can be different for each
period depending on the terms on the loan) is then simply the sum of the
current values of a series of these claims over the maturity of the contract.
7.    Pricing Guarantees and Recapture Clauses. The option pricing framework
also allows for straightforward pricing of the various guarantees and
recapture clauses. Consider the principal and interest guarantees first.
Rogoff (1989) for a multilateral bargaining framework); or financing might
increase because of the country's incentive to avoid a possible adverse signal
associated with defaulting. In the absence of strong analytical support either
way, we assume that the derived process is not altered by the conversion of
commercial bank debt into claims with guarantees.
5/ A constant interest rate r is used for notational convenience only. In the
application the maturity structure of interest rates was used. Even though
the state variable FX is a non-traded asset, and as such not priced directly
in the market, it is likely spanned by instruments which are traded and whose
current values are known. For example, forward and futures contracts on oil
can span Mexico's oil earnings. As a result, the option pricing model can be
used identically as in the case of traded assets.



- 79 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 5
8.    Princival and Interest Guarantees. The principal collateralization is
equivalent to an unconditional ouarantee of the full payment RT at maturity.
The implicit guarantee is equivalent to a put option with exercise price RT,
maturity date T and written on FX, provided by the guarantor to the creditor.
This put exactly offsets the put option representing sovereign risk on this
payment. Pricing the interest guarantee is more complicated. Recall that
this is done through an escrow account with a fixed number of interest
payments, say N, in it and no retention of interest earned in the account.
This is clearly a conditional ouarantee, of value only if there is in fact
money left in the escrow account at the time it is called. This would not be
the case if in the intervening years there have been at least N calls on the
fund. If there is at least one payment left in the account, the pricing
conditional on there being at least one payment in the fund is the same as the
unconditional guarantee pricing. Thus if FX, is serially independent over
time, an assumption that is made, the value of the rolling guarantee in year t
is:
(4)   PC(FX,,R,,r,t,o) = n,(t,R,,.),FX,t,),o)*P(FX,,R,,r,t,o)
where {t'} is the set of t' preceding t. fl(t,..,o) denotes the probability
that the guarantee has been called at most N-1 times during {t'}, leaving at
least one payment in the account. Martin and van Wijnbergen (1989) show that
the value of 0,(tR,t,),FX t.),o) can be derived using a simple recursive formula
on the level of the funds in the escrow account in conjunction with some
obvious initial conditions./ The total value of the rolling interest
guarantee provided through the escrow account in then equal to the summation
of (4) over all years that interest payments are scheduled.
9.    The Recapture Clause.  The recapture clause (available only to creditors
choosing one of the two debt relief alternatives) is equivalent to a portfolio
which consists of a fraction a=0.30 of the difference of two series of calls.
The long position is in a series of call options duplicating the 30% of the
additional revenues if oil prices go over $14.- (plus indexation adjustment);
the short position is in a second series representing the cap on payments
under the clause. The long position is in contracts written on FX with
exercise prices equal to the base year oil revenues, indexed, and scaled back
by the percentage of old debt brought under the two debt relief options; call
this L. L equals the predetermined level of oil exports times a stochastic
oil price. The short position is in a series of calls that are written on FX
with exercise prices equal to U - L + M/a. M (the maximum payments under the
recapture clause) equals 3% of the face value of the debt brought under
alternative A or B. To see the equivalence between the sharing rule and the
portfolio of options just described, consider the payoff structure for the
recapture clause at a maturity date T', with T' > 1996:
(9)  I,. = max(amax[FX,,.)-L,O],M]
6/  v(trR1t),FX(t.),o) = 1 for t < N; note that it is logically impossible to
get more than N-1 calls in less than N payment periods.



- 80 -
ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 5
= a*(max[FX(,)-L,0] - max[FX(,,,-U,0J); U=L+M/a
The expressions in the two brackets in the last equation are the two calls
mentioned above, with exercise prices L and U=L+M/a. The total (discounted)
value of the recapture clause equals I = -r.1996 exp(-rT')*I,..
10.   Pricing the Various Options.  To obtain the values of the various
options the forward prices for the foreign exchange available, the volatility
of the forward prices, and the interest structure are needed as inputs. As
noted, the variability of the FX variable is predominantly a result of the
uncertainty of the price of oil./ The maturity structure of forward prices
is therefore modelled consistent with market expectations for forward oil
prices at the time of agreement: flat for the first 3 years and afterwards as
upward sloping.
11.   For the forward prices, lognormality could not be rejected at reasonable
confidence levels, so the options can be priced using the Black option pricing
formula (see Black (1976)). An estimate of the standard deviation of the
forward prices was obtained by calculating the volatility of futures prices
for contracts of all maturities that are consistently quoted on the New York
Mercantile Exchange between July 1986 and July 1990. This excludes the
effects of the Gulf crisis. Daily (settle) prices were used. The resulting
term structure of volatilities for different maturities (number of months to
expiration) indicates that the volatility of the longer maturity contracts is
much below that of the nearby contracts and that volatility converges to a
level of about 22%. In accordance with this decline in volatility, commercial
institutions priced long-dated options using volatilities of around 20% at the
time the agreement was concluded. A standard deviation of about 20% is also
confirmed by the standard deviations implied by actual market prices of oil
options at the time the agreement was reached. Therefore a volatility of 20%
was used as input in the option pricing model.
12.   Secondary Market Pricina.  Using the option pricing model outlined
above, the ex-ante value of commercial bank claims on Mexico was calculated.
Before the Brady speech on March 10, 1989, the amount to be renegotiated was
widely believed to equal $52.7 bUS. At the "base case" values for the
distribution of FXt, the model then predicts that the secondary market price
should be 37 cents before any debt reduction. The secondary market price in
February, 1989, just before the Brady plan was proposed, was in fact very
close to that value: on average 36 cents. It became clear later on during the
negotiations that much less debt was involved (only $48.9 bUS), calling for a
recalculation of the benchmark value. This yields a base price of 39 cents
(used in the text).
7/ The Mexican oil company PEMEX projects the quantity of oil exported to
remain at its current level over the near future (1.2 million barrels per day)
and to decrease in the late 1990s (to 0.8 million barrels a day).



- 81 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
FOREIGN DEBT FACTORS BEHIND EXCHANGE RATE UNCERTAINTY AND PRIVATE
FIXED INVESTMENT
Unscheduled devaluation expectations and exchange rate uncertainty can
be captured by the interest differential between peso-denominated domestic
public debt and dollar-denominated domestic public debt adjusted by the pre-
announced devaluation. V To assess the impact on the above measure of
unscheduled devaluation expectations and exchange rate uncertainty of foreign
debt management we construct two variables: a measure of the projected average
net transfer to foreign creditors over the following 48 months; and a measure
of the smoothness of the net transfer to foreign creditors (the index reported
in Figure 8 in the main text).
We first define the discounted net transfer of month t+i measured at
month t (DS,.,) as:
(1)  DSt+i =  (rt+l*Ft+l- + At+, - Dt+1)/(1.0064)'
where:  r*F11 is the interest on the stock of debt in the month i-1
At+r, Dt+i are amortizations and diebursements at (t+i)
1/1.0064 is the constant discount factor (equivalent to an 8%
annual discount rate)
The average projected net transfer over the following 48 months measured
at month t (NTt) is then:
(2) NT, = SUM (DS,+,)/49      i = 0... 48
And the measure of the variance of the net foreign transfer at time t
is:
(3) SNTt = SUM [(DSt1i - NT,)2/(1.0064)1]     i = 0...48
The period for which NT and SNT measures were estimated covers March
1988, after the Morgan deal was concluded, to December 1990. However, actual
projections go as far as December 1994. The net transfer data actually
employed in the calculation was: i) in 1988 we used actual net transfers
during 1988 (obtained from the Bank of Mexico) and 1988.12 World Bank
projections for the following 48 months (IECDI-World Bank projections are only
1/ For construction of this variable see Annex 3 of Daniel Oke (1991) n
Devaluation Expectations and Interest Rates in Mexico: the Role of Domestic
Debt Management", World Bank, LAC Internal Discuosion Paper.



- 82 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
run on December of each year); ii) in 1989.1-1989.6 (prior to the DDSR plan
announcement) we used 1988.12 World Bank projections only; and iii) in 1989.7-
1990.12 we used actual net transfers until 1990.12 and 1990.12 World Bank
projections after.
The following econometric regressions were obtained for the period
1988.3-1990.12 period using Ordinary Least Squares (OLS).
(5)       wf - -0.0177 +  0.0238*NT  +  0.1027*SNT  +  0.3135*ir-
(-0.46)       (0.55)           (1.96)          (9.45)
R2 = 0. 81     D-W - 1.57            F - 42.18
where: ir is the interest differential between peso-denominated domestic
public debt and dollar-denominated domestic public debt
adjusted by the pre-announced (and assumed certain)
devaluation
t-statistics are in parenthesis
Regression (5) shows that the variance of the net transfer is a
statiscally more significant factor of n than the net transfer itself. In
fact, a. regression (6) shows, almost no explanatory power is lost when we no
longer have the net transfer as a regressor.
(6)   n  -  0.1065*SNT   +    0.3158*n_i
(7.62)             (9.89)
R2= 0. 81          D-W - 1.61               F - 133
To assess the impact of NT and SNT on a monthly index of private fixed
investment, Ip (obtained from "Indicadores Economicos" of Bank of Mexico), the
following regressions were run for the 1988.04-1990.12 period using OLS:
(7)      Ip  -  53.533   -   19.8394*SNT   +   3.9441*NT    +    0.502*Ip-,
(3.18)           (-2.94)           (0.96)             (3.13)
R2 = 0. 70         D-W - 2.25               F - 22.57
(8)      Ip  -  53.7297  -   17.0076*SNT   +    0.5146*Ip-,
(3.20)          (-2.81)            (3.23)



- 83 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
R2 = 0.69           D-W = 2.23                F = 33.5
(8)      Ip  -  16.3705  -   1.3514*NT   +    0.8265*Ip-,
(1.32)          (-0.32)             (6.34)
R2 = 0.61           D-W = 2.31                F = 23.5
The above regressions show that the variance index (SNT) was a
statistically significant explanatory factor of private investment (Ip)
whereas the net average projected net transfer (NT) was not.



- 84 -
3  Office Memorandum
o   s                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Attachment 1
Page 1 of 3
Comments from IMF
To:       Mr. Kanchuger                                         June 3, 1992
From:     Thomas Reichma  f annd Charles Collyns
Subject:  Mexico--Draft Project Completion Report on the
1990 Interest Support Loan
We welcome the opportunity to comment on this paper. Our
comments are as follows.
References to the Fund
We noted a few inaccuracies regarding the involvement of the
Fund in Mexico, and would be grateful if these could be corrected.
While it is true that the Fund in some cases has tolerated
external payment arrears to commercial banks while negotiations with
banks were proceeding, it is incorrect to state (as in page 9,
paragraph 23) that the Fund made it clear that it would condone
Mexican arrears to commercial creditors. The last sentence of this
paragraph should be dropped altogether.
It is also incorrect to state that the Fund made public its
support of the Mexican claim that a debt reduction was needed. We
suggest to drop the word "publicly" from the last sentence of
paragraph 16, page 7.
The EFF was approved by the Board in May 1989, and not in
February as mentioned in paragraph 16, page 7. Also, the augmentation
was not approved in May 1989 as stated in paragraph 19, page 8, but
instead in January 1990.  We suggest you end the sentence after ".
30% of quota for debt reduction operations" and to insert the
following sentence:
"On January 29, 1990 the Executive Board of the Fund approved
an augmentation of the EFF by the equivalent of 40 percent of quota
(SDR 466 million) for interest support in connection with DDSR
operations."
Table 2, page 15 is somewhat inaccurate. Accumulated set
asides amounted to SDR 279.7 million, while the accelerated
disbursement of the 1990 set asides amounted to SDR 209.8 million.



- 85 -                      Attachment 1
Page 2 of 3
Features of the 1989 Packaze
The report should mention that under the 1989 agreement,
Mexico or any Mexican governmental agency were allowed to purchase
discount and par bonds at any time by tender or in the open market at
any price. The paper could also stress that upon cancellation of
discount and par bonds redeemed or repurchased, the pro rata amount of
the principal and interest collateral for such bonds would be released
to Mexico. In that regard, the collateral would be released upon
cancellation of the bond, not upon repurchase of the bond as stated in
paragraph 76, page 37. These points are all the more topical
following the Mexican Government's announcement that about
US$7.2 billion worth of bonds have been repurchased in the open
market.  These bonds have not been canceled yet.
We do not think it appropriate in this context to raise the
issue of whether the Brady bonds could be restructured or whether the
1990 debt conversion has impaired significantly the flexibility of
Mexico's foreign debt management. The 1989 Term Sheet specifies that
Mexico will covenant that (a) neither of the bonds will be considered
part of a base amount with respect to any future requests by Mexico
for new money and (b) the bonds will not be subject to any future
restructuring requests. More importantly, the potential restructuring
of the Brady bonds is not expected to become an operational issue in
the foreseeable future. Consequently, we suggest dropping paragraph
63 altogether.
It is our understanding that some conversion rights acquired
in the context of the two 1990 auctions were exercised. We would
suggest redrafting the last sentence of paragraph 33 of page 12 to
say: ". ... most of the conversion rights .... were not exercised."
You might want to mention (possibly in paragraph 34 of page
13) that the bonds received by Mexican commercial banks were not
enhanced, i.e., were not collateralized.
Miscellaneous general points
The report should mention (possibly in paragraph 3, page 2)
that three debt restructurings were agreed by Paris Club creditors
during the 1980s.
We suggest stopping the last sentence of paragraph 70 after
"third quarter of 1991" and to add the following sentence if a
reference to the most recent developments is deemed warranted
(incidentally, the reference to yield spreads dropping to 178 basis
points does not match our records).



Attachment 1
- 86 -                    Page 3 of 3
"Yield spreads dropped to an average of 195 basis points
during the first quarter of 1992."
cc. Mr. Leddy
Mr. Loser



Attachment 2
-87 -                   p 10 
EI THE EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OPJAN
WASHINGTOQN OFFICE                         TLPOE  223184
2000 PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE, N.W.                    TELEPHONE: (202)331-8547
SUITE 3350, WAS11INGTON, D.C., 20006                FACSIMILE: (202)7751990
(FACSIMILE COVER SHEET)
DATE:         June Il, 1992
ATTENTI ION:              Mr. Daniel Fernando Oks
ORGANIZATION:             LA2C1, World Bank
FAX NUMBER:               676-1464
NUMBER OF PAGES TrO FOLLOW:                             6
MESSAGE:
Re: Our CoIrilrerIts on yoLur Initerest Support Loan Completion Report:
Please niote that our coniTneTits are subject to internal clearance but
we believe that they are useful to you even at this stage of preparation.
I will let you know as soon as we have obtained the clearance.
Regards.
FROM:  Taku  Yamamoto, DeputyClhiefRepresentative  &1



Attachment 2
- 88 -                        Page 2 of 7
Oraft                                                    June 12, 1992
Mr. Robert Kanchuger
Acting Chief
Mexico Country operationsi Division
Department II
Latin America and the Carilbbean Region
The World Bank
Dear Mr. Kanchuger:
Re: Commeny on pL of  t        nterestp o Lcd
Pursuant: to your request made to Mr. Yamamoto, our Senior
Representative in Washington, please find attached our comments on
the draft Project Coinpletion Report (PCR) ot the Interest Suppor-t
Loan to Mexico (Ln. 3159-ME).
in addition to the attached comments which were prepared as
Attachment 2 to PCR, we also have additional comments on factual
matters on the draft PCR. They are as tollows:
ZQrgj_4ph, 2. Pretace1,   Strictly speaking JEXIM was not a
cofinancier to the IntureuL Support Loan, although it cofinanced
with three World Bank sector adjustment loans.  We suggest that
this fact be explained in a footnote for claritication. (As you
are probably aware, JEXIM can not cofinarice with any World Bank
loans that are devoted to the sole purpose of providirig enhancement
Such as debt management loans and interest support loans, since
JEXIM's untied loons can only be used to finance imports)
rine_ v2 and                     l    .  The total contribution
from the Government of Japan to credit enhancement was not US$2.05
billion but USS1.9 billion consisting of JEXIM's parallel lending
with the IMF'5 EFF amounting to US$1 billion and JEXIM's
cofinancing with three World Bank sector ad)ustment loans totaling
US$900 million.  The US$150 million difference between these two
amounts, which later contributed to materializing the US5315
million cofinancinig loan with the World Bank for an envIronment
project upon the request of the Mexican government, should not be
considered as part of JEXIM's support for the Mexico's debt deal.
similar corrections on the amount of JEXIM's contribution are
required in other relevant sections of the draft inclucllrg
paragraph 19 (paqe 8), Table 2 (page 1Y) and paragraph 41 (paqe
17).
iAne 8, kJarArp_ 19, age 8.  We suggest that reference to
the maturity of JEXIM loans be deleted because its parallel lending
with EFF has a shorter nmaturity than that of cofinancing loans with
World Bank loans as rerorred to in the draft.  The maturity of the
parallel loan was 12 years including a two years graco period.



89 -                   Attachment 2
Page 3 of 7
Line 6. Dara(rao7} y           10.  We. * euggest that. "c-nmmercial
creditor53' be changed to "othker exterrnal creditors" as JEXrM also
granted a waiver to negative pledge restrictions.  Similar changes
are needed to paragrapti 30 (paige 12), paragraph 76 (page 37), and
paragraph 7 of Anntex 6 (pyLie 4).
If you have any questioanz concerning these comments, please
contact Mr. Kiyoahi NiLshimura, Economic Pol Icy AralyFis Department.
Mr. Nishimura's  telephone  number  (Tokyo)  is  3287-9535  and  fax
number is 3287-9582.
La5t but not leaut, thank your f-r giving us the opportunity
to commeynt Qil this well written report.
Sincerely,
YVohifuml Matsuzaxi
Director General1
Economic Policy Analysis De)partment
rhe Export-import Bank of Japan



- 90 -                   Attachment 2
Page 4 of 7
June 12, 1992
.2EXIM''  Comments -n the Projec:t Cornple-iton
_JJgot (PCR)of_the  htterest    p0ft Loan
Mexico-s debt and debt !.ervice reduction (DDSR) operationc. was
the  first case  for the Export-Import Bank of Japan  (JEXIM)  to
provide financial aupport to such operations urnder the Japanese
governmen%Ll  policy to support the blew Debt Strategy initiated by
the proposal made by U.S. Secretary Biady in March 19A9.
The total tinancial aupport of US$1.9 billion was made
available from JEXIM to Mexico for the purpose of asaisting, albeit
indirectly, the funding tor credlt enhancement required for DDSR.
Of this  total comxmtment,  USS1.0 billion  was  provided  through
parallel lending with the Extended Fund Facility of the IMF and
US5300 each wa6 provided through cotinancing with three World Bank
6ector adjuatment loanti, namely Financial Sector Adjustment Loan,
Public Enterprise Reform Loan and Industrial Sector Policy Loan.
Some US$1.25 billion of the total commltment was frontloaded to
become  dvailable  in  March   1990   in  time   for  the  actual
implementation  of the  lDSR operations.   In  addition  to three
financial supports, JEXIM also granted, in March 1990, a consent to
the creation of a security interest over the collateral for the
principal and interest payments on the discounted and par bonds as
well as outstandinq Mexican bearer bonds.



Attachment 2
- 91 -                   Page 5 of 7
As PCR pointc out, the experience of Mexico'l  IDDSR operations
was a clear success.  They have ptovided not only direct benefits
of caf;h flow relief In both fiscal and external aspect6 but also
even  larger  indirectly  benefits  of aharp)y  improved  domnestic
expectations and lower real interest rates.  The lower domestic
Interest rates cut Government interest obligations and allowed
private investment to robound, thu3 creating favorable environments
for sustainable economic growth.
Several points are worth mentioning on PCR'S evaluation of
this Mexican Pxperience as follows:
First, Mexico did not tace a short-term liquidity crunch as a
consequence of the DDSR operations. This was made possible as the
outflow of resources required to purchase collateral was mostly
financed with additional resources which were not going to be
available in the absence or the operations (paragraph 77) . Ot the
additional resources totaling approximately US$4 billion, about a
halt was provided by JEXIM.  'Fhis indicates a crucial importance of
JEXIM's participation in the Mexican operatiorns.
Second, as. PCR states, so called erfficiency gains from DDSR
might not have materialized, at least to the extent that they did,
if the other deep and widespread t.tructural reforms that Mexico
underwE'i&t in the recent paat had been absent (paragraph 79) . This
prove6 the importance of a medium-term adjustment program with a
2



Attachment 2
- 92-                   Page 6 of 7
strong element of btzuctural  reform  for successful DDSR.   tile
Mexican experience clearly supports JEXIM's policy to request
consistcnt policy commitment for structural 4d)ustinent over a
considerable leuiyth of period at a precondition ut its support ot
DDSR.
'rhird, successful DDSR should be predicated on appropriate
burden sharing among creditors which, however, is difficult to
evaluate in practice.   By using 4 measure based on the expected
contributions  of each  creditor claus  to reducing Mexico's  net
foreign debt. repaymerits, PCR concludes that there Was qood burden
sharing between official and private creditors (paragrdph 60). On
the other hand, the alternative measure in PCR on the basis of
change in the relative amount of debt outstanding to each creditor
class presents  a rather  ambiguous  conclusion  (paragraph  61).
Furthermore, even by the former measure based on the drop in net
repayments, bilateral official c:reditors appear to havc born
disproportionats burden vis-a-vis multilateral official creditors
and private creditors. (Table 7 indicates that the drop in net
repayments over 1990-94 aa a percentage of the initial stock of
debt was 15.41 tor bilateral official creditors compared to 6.1%
and 9.4% for multilateral official creditors and private creditors,
respectively.) These results indicate the need or turther research
on analytical rramework for the overall assessment ot the burden
sharinq amonq different creditors which could contribute to
developing more equitable DDSR package.
3



- 93 -                  Attachment 2
Page 7 of 7
Fourth, Mexico's DDSR operations were large scale complex
transactions where cooperation among various parties involved waa
essential  for  the  success.    one  such  example  was  JEXIM's
flexibility in designinq Its financial support so that the maximum
trontloading of its contribution waa possible to meet large upfront
financial requirements of the deal (paragraph 36).
Finally, the succe^stul implementation of the DDSR operations
has made significant contribution to Mexico's favorable prospect o0
sustainable economic growth for the medium-term.   However, the
rapid deterioration ot the external current account balance in
recent yearu suqgests the continuous need for prudent fiscal and
monetary policies.   Together with turther structural adjustment
efforts, these policies would secure Mexico's returned economic
prospect  againt  the  risk  of  di&sipating  DDSR':9  positive
contribution (paragraph 8).



