Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCiAL USE ONLY
At! 3ArX'- M6
Repot No. P-5235-ME
REPORT AIND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTRuTIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED NTREST SUPPORT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$1.26 BILLION
TO
SANCO RACIONAL DE COMERCIO EXTERIOR, S.N.C.,
-WITH THE GUARATEE OF THE UNITED MEIDCAN STATES
AND ON
RELATED MEASURES TO SUPPORT THE DEBT REDUCTION
PROGRAM OF THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
JANUARY 18, 1990
This document has a restcted ditribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wold Bank authorization.



CURRENCY UNIT - PESO (MEX$)
On December 12, 1989, the exchange rate in the controlled market was
US$l - Mex$2,620.00; the free market exchange rate stood at
US$1 = Mex$2,642.00.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha) = 10,000 square meters (m2) = 2.47 acres (a)
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2) = 0.39 square miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)   2,205 pounds (lbs)
1,000 kilograms = 1 metric ton (t) - 0.98 long ton
1 liter (1) = 0.26 gallons (gal)
ABBREVIATIONS
BANCOMEXT   - Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior
CCFF        - IMF Compensatory Facility
DFI         - Direct Foreign Investment
EFF         - IMF Extended Fund Facility
FERTIMEX    - Fertilizantes Mexicanos, S.A.
GDP         - Gross Domestic Product
IBRD        - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB         - International Development Bank
IFC         - International Finance Corporation
IFI         - International Financial Institutions
IMF         - International Monetary Fund
IR          - Interest Reduction
LIBOR       - London Interbank Offering Rate
NM          - New Money
PECE        - Stabilization and Growth Pact
PEMEX       - Petroleos Mexicanos
PR          - Principal Reduction
SDR         - Special Drawing Ri-rts



FOR omCAL USE ONLY
INTEREST SUPPORT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   i
PART I - THE ECONOMY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
A.    Background  .....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    2
Macroeconomic Stabilization .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
C.    Rationalized Private Sector Incentives .  . . . . . . . . . .    4
D.    Reorientation of Public Spending .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
E.    Medium-Term Finance for Growth .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
PART II - DEBT RELIEF AND MEDIUM TERM FINANCING PLAN  . . . . . . . . . .    7
A.    The Case for Debt Relief  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
B.    Structure of the Debt and Pre-Deal Financing Gap  . . . . . .    8
C.    Financing Requirements and Financing Plan 1989-94 . . . . . .    9
PART III - THE DEBT AGREEMENT BETWEEN MEXICO AND THE COMMERCIAL BANKS . .   10
A.    Terms of the Agreement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Debt-Equity Conversion  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
Recapture Clause  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
Oil Contingency Facility  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
Credit Enhancement  .............                    ....      .    14
B.    Evaluation of the Agreement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
Debt Relief . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
Impact on Financing Gap and Creditworthiness  . . . . .   19
Impact on Growth - Materiality Test . . . . . . . . . .   20
PART IV - PROPOSED BANK SUPPORT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   23
A.    Set  Asides   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  23
Implementation Arrangement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
B. Interest Support Loan .26
Funding Level . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
Implementation Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
Transfer of Funds and Effectiveness . . . . . . . . . .   28
Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
C.    Waiver of the Negative Pledge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
D.    Restructuring of IBRD Guarantee under the 1987 Multi-
Facility Agreement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
E.    Guarantee for Oil Contingency Facility  . . . . . . . . . . .   30
F.    Cofinancing with the Export-Import Bank of Japan  . . . . . .   31
G.    Monitoring, Reporting and Auditing  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   32
H.    Burden Sharing  .....................                                   33
I.    Creditworthiness  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   35
J.    Benefits and Risks  . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . .   35
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   37
A.  Country Assistance Strategy .37
B.    Sectoral Composition of Bank Lending  . . . . . . . . . . . .   39
Agriculture ....................                                 39
Trade    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  30
Industry and Finance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .0
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



2
Infrastructure  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
Housing and Others  ...... ...........    41
Social Sectors and Environment  . . . . . . . . . . . .  41
C.  IFC Operations  ........   . ..............   .   41
PART VI - COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41
PART VII- SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS ................. .  42
Table 1:   Basic Macroeconomic Indicators
Table 2:   Key Economic Indicators with a Debt Package in Place
Table 3:   Balance of Payments with a Debt Package in Place
Table 4:   Projected Foreign Exchange Requirements with a Debt Package in
place
Table 5:   Sources and Needs of Financing With > Debt Package in Place
Table 6:   Sources and Needs of Financing Without a Debt Package in Place



MEXICO
INTEREST SUPPORT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:          Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior, S.N.C.. (BANCOMEXT)
Guarantor:         United Mexican States
Amouat:            US$1.26 billion equivalent
Terms:             Repayment in 17 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable rate.
Objectives:        The proposed loan is part of the Bank's support for the Debt
Reduction Plan of the Government of Mexico, putting in place
funds required for credit enhancement, in connection with the
Debt Reduction Plan. The external financing requirements of
the Government would be covered through the Debt Reduction
Plan for 1989-94, thus, helping support the Government's
adjustment program, further structural reforms and the
resumption of sustained economic growth.
Description:       The proposed loan and related measures for the Debt Reduction
Plan of the Government would provide for: (a) US$750 million
in set asides for collateralizing discount bonds; (b) US$1.26
billion in collateral for interest payments of discount and
par bonds; (c) Waiver of the negative pledge restriction up
to an amount equivalent to US$7.5 billion; and (d)
Restructuring of IBRD guarantees of US$750 million under the
1987 Multi-Facility Agreement.
Benefits and       The proposed loan and related measures would help achieve a
Risks:             debt relief of 242 after the interest recapture allowance,
measured as a reduction in the discounted value of the debt
service as a percentage of the face value of the outstanding
debt. This is achieved by reducing both amortization and
interest payments. Reduced net transfers abroad would enable
the Government to recover sustainable growth, while concluding
the stabilization and adjustment programs.  As a result, a
protracted deterioration in living standards would be stemmed,
jobs would be generated, targeted and cost effective social
sector programs would be expanded, and the country's
environmental conditions would be gradually improved. Mexico's
growth program faces several risks, including declining oil
prices, rising interest rates and protectionist trends in the
trade policies of its major trading partners.   Any, or a
combination, of these risks could adversely affect the balance
of payments and seriously compromise the Goverrnent's growth
objectives. To help deal with these risks, the Government may
relax the targeted reserve buildup and tighten fiscal
measures under the EIF program of the IMP. These arrangements
would provide a short term breathing space to implement new



policies, in order to deal with the consequencea of the
external risks. But, more importantly, the commitment of the
Government to stay the course in macroeconomic and adjustment
policies would suggest that a derailment of the program has
a low probability. In any case, the substantial conditionality
of the Bank's adjustment loan portfolio provides for early
warning signals on any worsening trend in domestic policy or
the country's external environment and would thus enable the
Bank to consider timely measures to protect its portfolio and
longer term interests in Mexico.
Disbursements:    The proceeds of the set asides and the proposed interest
support loan would, unless the Bank otherwise agrees, be
disbursed concurrently upon compliance with the conditions of
effectiveness and disbursement, for the purpose of acquiring
collateral. It is expected that the Bank's set asides and
interest support will be fully disbursed by March 31, 1990.
Rate of Return:   Over 36Z
Appraisal Report: Not applicable



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE eRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
INTEREST SUPPORT LOAN TO BANCO NACIONAL DE COMERCIO EXTERIOR, S.N.C.,
AND ON OTHER MEASURES TO SUPPORT THE DEBT REDUCTION PLAN OF THE
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
1.    I submit the following report and recommendatitn for a series of
proposed measures to support the Debt Reduction Plan of the United Mexican
States. The proposed Bank measures would include the following elements:
(a) Release of set asides of US$ 375 million, consisting of US$125
million under each of the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (3085-ME), Public
Enterprise Reform Loan (3086-ME) and the Industrial Sector Policy Loan (3087-
ME), all of which loans were approved by the Executive Directors on June 13,
1989, for financing collateral on disco, t bonds to be issued for reducing the
stock of commercial bank debt of the Un;_ed Mexican States;
(b) Allocation and release of additional set asides totalling US$375
million, consisting of $150 million under the Fertilizer Sector Loan (2919-
ME), US$ 175 million under the Agricultural Sector Loan (2918-ME) and US$50
million under the Steel Sector Adjustment Loan (2916-ME), which loans were
approved by the Executive Directers in March 1988, for fina-.cing collateral on
discount bonds to be issued for reducing the stock of commr cial bank debt of
the United Mexican States;
(c) Approval of an Interest Support Loan to the Banct. Aacional de
Comercio Exterior, S.N.C. with the guarantee of the United Mexican States for
the equivalent of US$1.26 billion for financing collateral in respect of
interest payments on discount and par bonds to be issued "r reducing the
stock of commercial bank debt and debt service payments of che United Mexican
States;
(d) Waiver of the negative pledge restriction in existing loan and
guarantee agreements between the United Mexican States and the Bank to permit
a pledge of up to US$7.5 billion equivalent by the United Mexican States as
collateral for the principal or interest payments of discount and par bonds to
be issued for reducing the stock of commercial bank debt and debt service
payments of the United Mexican States;
(e) Restructuring of the Bank's guarantees of US$750 million under
'Facility 2" and "Facility 3" of the 1987 Multi-Facility Agreement.



2
PART I - THE ECONOMY
A.    Background
2.    Between 1950 and 1974, Mexico enjoyed a remarkable period of high
growth, low inflation and moderate external debt accumulation. Real growth
averaged 6.4%, and inflation was in single digits throughout the period, in
line with the prudent fiscal policies followed. This era of fiscal
conservatism came to an abrupt end in the early seventies. Government
involvement in the economy expanded rapidly, and increased public expenditure
pushed up aggregate demand and the rate of economic growth. However, the
higher government expenditure was not matched by rising public sector
revenues. As a result, the inflation tax and external debt became
increasingly important sources of public finarce.  At the same time, a decline
in private savings incentives (real interest rates turned sharply downward)
prevented a matching increase in private savings; extern.i debt thus
increased, increased oil revenues notwithstanding. The period of single digit
inflation ended in 19i3, the real exchange ratell started to appreciate and
the accumulation of external debt accelerated above the GNP grow.h rate. A
serious, but comparatively brief, financial and economic crisis in 1976
terminated following major oil discoveries in 1977. The ensuing prosperity
lasted until 1982, when soaring domestic inflation, falling international oil
prices, rising world irnterest rates, and massive capital flight led to a
refusal by external creditors to roll over Mexico's short-term debt and a
subsequent suspension of Mexican payments of interest on its external debt.
3.    Over the 1982-88 period, economic growth ground to a virtual halt. This
was accompanied by sharply falling living standards, a deteriorating
infrastructure, high inflation, and a loss of investor confidence. Towards
the second half of this period, a series of measures was taken to reverse
Mexico's declining fortunes. Among the most important goals were:
(a) macroeconomic stability; (b) a ratlonalized set of incentives for private
sector investment; (c) reallocation of public spending to support private
sector-led growth, improved social services and the environment; and (d) a
credible financing plan to remove the unsustainable overhang of external debt.
In each of these areas, the Mexican Government has achieved notable progress.
B.    Macroeconomic Stabilization
4.    The onset of the financial and economic crisis of 1982 brought in its
wake explosive inflationary and balance of payments difficulties. Initial
strong fiscal and monetary adjustment efforts were alternately not sustained
for a sufficiently long period (1983-85) or undermined by external shocks such
as the collapse in international oil prices (1986). Inflation, rather than
slowing down, accelerated, partially in response to the sharp real devaluation
of the exchange rate necessitated by the 1986 downturn in the terms of trade.
1/. The real exchange rate is defined as the price of foreign goods relative
to domestic goods. Appreciation means a decline in this relative price.



3
The subsequent de facto targeting of the real exchange rate, together with an
increase in the frequency of wage and cost adjustments, introduced an element
of inherent instability into the system, culminating in a run on the peso in
the last quarter of 1987 and triple-digit inflation.
5.    The Government responded with the "Economic Solidarity Pact' (Pacto), an
agreement between business, labor, and government. This agreement called for
accelerated structural reform, further tightening of fiscal and monetary
policy, a freeze of minimum wages and of basic public and private sector
prices, and, the cornerstone of the 'Pacto", a freeze of the nominal exchange
rate against the U.S. dollar. This partial freeze was extended at three-
month intervals tlhrough the end of 1988, and renewed, with some modifications,
by the new Mexican Administration under the name of "PECE" (Pact for
Stabilization and Growth) through July 1990. The main adjustments brought
about under the PECE initially were one-off catch up increases in selected
public sector tariffs and in prices of key inputs, a two-stage 26% cumulative
adjustment in the minimum wage, and a daily aijustment of the exchange rate of
about one peso against the U.S. dollar. More recently, it has been announced
that public sector prices will be adjusted more regularly but by smaller
amounts, in line with general inflation targets. In addition, there has been
substantial progress towards more flexible pricing, most recently in
agriculture. The current policy stance is thus more flexible and more in line
with current actual inflation than it was one year ago; arguably the FECE's
,soft landing" has been achieved.
6.    On almost every target that is under direct or indirect governmental
control, performance under the "Pacto" and "PECE" has been exemplary, in some
instances going beyond what was originally planned. For example, after
adjusting for changes in world oil prices, interest rates, and gross external
financing, Mexico satisfied all of the first half 1989 performance
requirements set out in the new Extended Agreement with the IMF, often by
substantial margins. In trade, the Government had originally committed to a
three-year program of reforms supported by the Bank. These reforms were
designed inter alia to lower the maximum import tariff to 30% ad valorem by
the end of 1988. In fact, during the first month of the Pacto, December 1987,
tariffs were lowered such that no tariff excecded 20%, i.e., 10 percentage
points lower than originally agreed and one year ahead of schedule.
7.    The fiscal measures, backed by the temporary exchange rate freeze and an
array of formal and informal wage and price controls, have had a dramatic
success in reducing the rate of inflation, from 159% in 1987 to 20% in 1989.
At the same time, the economy has shown encouraging signs of economic
recovery, led by a strong resurgence of private investment. Industrial
production was 6% higher in the first half of 1989 than in the same period a
year earlier, and the economy has grown by an estimated 3% in real terms for
the year as a whole. Interest rates, although still high by historical
standards, declined by about 20 percentage points within days after the
announcement in July 1989 of a debt reduction agreement between Mexico and its
commercial bank creditors. The sharp drop stems, in all likelihood, from an
improved climate of confidence in the consistency of the economic program and
the prospects for renewed growth. The same factors have also led to more than
US$2 billion in returned flight capital and increased foreign investment.



4
8.    The current account balance has deteriorated from a 1988 deficit of US$3
billion to an estimated deficit of about US$5 billion in 1989. This is
largely due to the increased imports drawn in by accelerating private sector
investment and a drought-induced decline in net agricultural exports.
Manufactured export growth continues at an annual rate of about 10%.
International reserves experienced a sharp recovery in July and August, rising
by over US$1.5 billion during that period. In short, while adjustment is by
no means complete, the progress which has already been achieved augurs well
for a period of sustained growth.
C.    Rationalized Private Sector Incentives
9.    Mexico has transformed itself into one of the most open economies in the
world through a trade reform supported by four policy-based loans provided by
the Bank. Trade liberalization to date has lowered the percentage of domestic
(non-oil) tradeable production covered by import quotas from 100% in 1984 to
less than 17% at present. Maximum import tariffs were cut by similar
magnitudes. Non-oil merchandise exports, which represented less than one-
third of total exports in 1984, have doubled their share since then.
10.   These "core" reforms have been complemented by many others.  Recognizing
that the era of public sector-led growth had passed, the Government took a
number of measures to stimulate greater private investment. In May 1989,
foreign investment regulations were considerably relaxed and made more
transparent. A long-standing prohibition against majority foreign ownership
was removed, the lishing, petrochemical, and mining sectors were opened to
foreign investors for the first time, the licensing of proposed investments
under US$100 million was made automatic in those sectors, and approval of
larger investments became automatic following a 45-day waiting period, unless
the Government interposed formal objection within that waiting period. Since
1986, the tax system underwent a series of reforms bringing marginal tax rates
more in line with levels in major industrial countries, encouraging the
repatriation of flight capital, and increasing the sanctions for tax evasion.
Also, profits are for tax purposes now adjusted for the effects of inflation
on assets and liabilities, and the grevious bias against equity finance has
been reduced substantially.
11.   To encourage improved mobilization of domestic savings, the Government
initiated a parallel process of financial market liberalization, supported by
a Financial Sector Adjustment Loan from the Bank. Commercial banks no longer
face any ceilings on the deposit interest rates they can charge; the system of
forced allocation of commercial credit towards favored sectors has been
abolished and credit subsidies through official development banks have been
reduced significantly. The principal development and agricultural banks in
the public sector are in the midst of significant managerial and financial
restructurings, designed to consolidate institutions, clean up balance sheets,
and reform lending practiceL.
12.   To reduce the role of the public sector in production, over 750 state-
owned enterprises were sold, transferred, or liquidated from 1983 to the
present. Many large-scale enterprises underwent major financial and partial



5
managerial restructurings. More recently, the Government announced plans to
sell the country's largest airline and its telecommunications company. It
also placed in receivership for eventual sale or liquidation the country's
largest mine. An action plan for initiating widespread deregulation hes been
approved. A radical deregulation of the transport sector has already been
implemented. Such deregulation is useful in its own right, but it also
increases the efficiency gains from the trade reforms undertaken earlier.
D.    Reorientation of Public Spending
13.   Since 1982, a major retrenchment of public expenditure has taken place.
Non-interest spending declined by 36% in real terms. The composition of the
cutbacks was, perhaps, not ideal from the standpoint of growth. Real
investment expenditures were cut more deeply than current outlays, posing the
risk, now that growth is underway once again, that infrastructural bottlenecks
in areas such as roads, communications, urban services, and skilled manpower
availability might impose constraints on potential growth.
14.   Also, some of the gains in reducing illiteracy, infant mortality, and
nutrition during the seventies are threatened by the sharp cutbacks in public
expenditures for social programs. The social sector's budgetary share
declined from 20% or more in the years preceding the 1982 to around 13%
currently. This trend is probably unsustainable, given the already sharp
reduction in real wages, widespread unemployment, ai.d worsening inter-personal
and inter-regional income disparities.
15.   As for the environment, it is widely recognized thac the cumulative
effects of past growth, combined with generations of public indifference about
ecological issues, has resulted in severe degradation of Mexico's air, soil,
water, and forestry resources. Mexico City is now one of the world's most
seriously polluted cities, but many medium-size cities suffer from problems
nearly as grave. The Salinas Administration recognizes the urgency of broad-
based efforts to clean up the environment and welcomes the assistance of
international agencies.
16.   In recent years, two successive administrations have sought to soften
the blow of reductions in social expenditures. Global consumer subsidies for
basic food items have been replaced by less expensive, but more targeted,
subsidies to the poor. Last year, a new "National Solidarity Program" has set
aside US$400 million to coordinate the activities of existing agencies and
provide limited additional budgetary support for productive agriculture,
infrastructure, and social programs in Mexico's ten poorest states. For
example, title to 300,000 urban plots Is to be regularized, 150,000 hectares
)f semi-arid arable land rehabilitated, and tubewells, irrigation works, and
rural infrastructure extended. It is hoped that the program can be tripled in
1990. Another US$200 million is being channeled into a revitalized federal
program of primary health care in 12 states. And, starting in June 1989, a
program to rehabilitate 25,000 primary and secondary schools began, with an
expected cost of nearly US$220 million.
17.   Given the severe fiscal constraints, the need to rebuild crumbling
roads, bridges, and other infrastructure is at present only partially met.



6
Resources are found by shifting public expenditure away from activities which
could be better carried out by the private sector, such as telecommunications.
to areas like transport infrastructure, where the state's role is more easily
justified. However, the restoration of sustainable growth will require a
gradual increase in public Investment over the next few years, particularly
for agriculture, the environment, transportation, energy, %nd the social
sectors.
E.    Medium-Term Finance for Growth
18.   Despite the far reaching reforms implemented in Mexico, international
capital markets have not provided the resources needed to bridge the period
between the current costs and the future benefits of the reform program.
Continuing high external transfers generated uncertainty about whether the
rapidly growing transfer burden could be met. This, in turn, generated
increased uncertainty about future exchange rates, taxation, and financial
regulation. Thus, to forestall further capital flighc, Mexico had to pay
unsustainable interest rates on its domestic debt. "Ex post' real interest
rates were almost 50% in the weeks before the debt accord was reached.
19.   Real interest rates so far above the real growth rate of the economy are
explosive under any circumstance; however in Mexico there is an additional
complication in that the government is in the middle of a stringent economic
stabilization program in which fiscal retrenchment plays an important role.
Between 1981 and 1989, the primary deficit (non-interest public expenditure
minus puhlic revenues) of 7% was transformed into a surplus of 8.4% of GDP.
At historical levels of domestic real interest rates and at the current level
of internal debt (20% of GDP), this is more than enough to avoid unsustainable
debt accumulation, even at the current low rate of inflation. However at a
30% real interest rate (the average level for most of the past year), the
current fiscal stance is far out of line with the stated inflation target of
18-20 percent. The reason is th-^., at 30% real interest rates on domestic
debt, the government needs more _.aan 6% of GDP in extra revenues for domestic
debt service alone. The uncertainty caused by future transfer problems,
through its impact on domestic real interest rates, was thus a direct threat
to the survival of the still highly successful stabilization program.
20.   Moreover, the fiscal impact of high interest rates forced sharp
reductions in public sector investment, to a share of GDP lower than at any
time in the past fifty years. The consequences for the provision of public
services and for public sector infrastructure, an important complement to
private sector capital formation, are worrisome. The same external debt
problems have also delayed the private sector's adjustment to the new
incentive structure. Revival of private investment and a cautious increase in
public sector capital formation are among the most important benefits one can
expect from the now successfully-concluded external debt negotiations.
21.   Thus, the impact of reduced uncertainty and renewed confidence will go
much beyond the direct fiscal effects of the lower costs of domestic debt
service. Reduced uncertainty is likely to have a substantial impact on
private investment and direct foreign investment beyond the direct impact of
lower interest rates. Moreover, reduced uncertainty will also have an impact



7
on the potential of capital flight reversal. Some of that is already taken
into account since a shift by the private sector from dollar into peso assets
is really what allows lower interest rates, but increased direct investment is
also a likely channel for the return of flight capital.
22.   Thus the beneficial domestic effects of the debt package will follow as
much from reduced uncertainty and improved expectations about future policies
as from the direct fiscal impact of any reduction in net transfers to
foreigners. But for such expectational factors to come into play, the deal
really needs to be of a medium term nature. Hence the imperative not only to
reach a solution, but a solution that would likely forestall debt problems for
the foreseeable future. With such a comprehensive solution, t e domestic
impact of removal of the uncertainty related to external debt is likely to be
as important as the direct effects of any debt relief granted. The almosc 20
percentage points drop in nominal interest rates immediately after the details
of tbe deal became known bears ample testimony to that. Z/
PART II - DEBT RELIEF AND MEDIUM TERM FINANCING PLAN
A.    The Case for Debt Relief
23.  Against the background sketched so far, Mexico initiated the debt
negotiations to seek international support for its far-reaching adjustment
program and recovery of economic growth. The Government has already
demonstrated its strong commitment to the program, but its continued success
depends on the availability of external support. Because of the high domestic
costs of continuing uncertainty, the required international support can mike a
substantial difference only if it is based on an unequivocal, medium term
commitment by the creditors. Therefore, Mexico has pressed in the
negotiations for a multi-year financing package.
24.   The need for debt relief, in the case of Mexico, needs to be seen from
this perspective. It is not so much the level of the country's debt, but the
current flow of debt service payments that is too high, and causes too much
uncertainty to allow growth and sustainability of adjustment. The need for
debt relief has to be seen ir. this context. Debt relief offers the most
certain way to reduce future net transfers for a long time to come. If
accompanied by a recovery of growth, as projected, it would also be most
effective in improving Mexico's debt indicators.
25.   There are more arguments, both political and economic, which stress the
need for debt relief, as opposed to the provision of new money only. In terms
of Mexico's domestic politics, Mexicans have made such enormous adjustments,
accepted such a large reduction in living standards, that any package without
a visible contribution by external creditors would not be acceptable
domestically. An economic argument for debt relief is related to the likely
Z/ Nominal interest rates have since then rebounded 4 percentage points.



8
time horizon ot new money commitments in the current international
environment. Such commitments are unlikely to go beyond three or four years,
possibly not enough to see a process of economic growth firmly established.
26.   The conclusion from the above analysis is clear:  Mexico needs external
acc mmodation. The Government has the structural policies and domestic fiscal
measures in place for sustainable growth to take off. What has been missing
was a sufficiently long period during which external creditors would allow
this inherently sound economic program to get off the ground. But Mexico's
successful debt renegotiations now provide the elements for a well structured
debt reduction plan, a plan which is expected to allow the Government to
achieve its growth objectives.
B.    Structure of the Debt and Pre-Deal Financing Gap
27.   At the end of 1988, Mexico's external debt was at $100.4 billion. Of
this total, most is held by commercial creditors (see Table 1), with the
remainder held by official creditors. Among official creditors, the Bank
holds $7.4 billion and the IMF $5 billion. Of the commercially held debt
($70.6 billion), a small amount ($5.1 billion) has never been rescheduled.
The bulk of this $5.1 billion consists of PEMEX liabilities ($3 billion) that
traditionally have oeen rolled over automatically.
Table 1: MEXICO: EXTERNAL DEBT BY CREDITOR AS OF END OF 1988
(US$ billion)
Commercial banks:                     70.6
of which to:
Public Sector           65.1
of which:
Rescheduled          37.9
New Money            14.8
non-rescheduled       5.1
Inter-Bank            7.3
Private Sector                   5.5
Other Creditors:                      29.8
of which to:
Public Sector                   28.8
of which
IBRD               7.4
IMF                5.0
Bilaterals         8.7
Bonds              3.7
Others                    4.0
Private Sector                   1.0
TOTAL                                100.4
28.   The new financing package covers the sum of the $37.9 billion that was
rescheduled during 1986/1987 and the $14.8 billion of new money that was
provided in the previous two rescheduling exercises (1983/1984 and 1986/1987).



9
This total ($52.7 billion) has since been reduced to $48.4 billion because of
cross-currency exr'hange rate changes, debt-equity swaps and cancellation of
debt held by Mexican institutions. Thus the basis covered by the debt package
is $48.4 billion. A certain amount of sovereign debt is held by Mexican owned
banks. Those claims will either be brought under the new money option
described below, or will not receive enhancements if debt or debt service
reduction options are chosen.
C.    Financing Reguirements and Financing Plan 1989-94
29.   Mexico's total gross financing needs over the next six years amount to
$51.1 billion (Table 2). This level of financing would accommodate a growth
target of an average 4% over the next six years, provided, however, that the
non-interest current account would generate a surplvs of 2.4% of GDP on
average.  At current interest rates and for the given structure of the
country's debt, this leads to a cumulative current account deficit of around
$23 billion (around 1.5 percent of GDP on average). In addition, reserves are
expected to increase by $3.1 billion, as stipulated under the currently
operative IMF Extended Fund Facility, raising the total to $26 billion. Total
financing requirements include, in addition, the scheduled net amortization
payments to commercial banks, bondholders, suppliers and holders of private
non-guaranteed debt, which is currently estimated at US$18.3 billion over the
same period.
Table 2:  MEXICO'S FINANCING NEEDS AND SOURCES 1989-1994 (bUSS)
Needs                                Sources
Current Account deficits             Direct Foreign Investment       21.9
and reserve changes :   26.2         International Financial
Institutions                3.4
Net Scheduled Amort.:    18.3                  of which:
of which to:                                      IBRD:        4.93I
Comm. Banks  12.7                              IMF :-1.3/
Bonds         1.2                 Bilaterals                       2.3
Priv.Non-                         ---------------------------_
Guar.Debt    4.3                 Subtotal                       27.6
Suppliers     0.1
Other Capital Outflow      6.52/     FINANCING GAP                   23.5
Total                     51.1       Total                           51.1
Notes:
1/ Totals may not add up due to rounding error.
2/ "Other Capital Outflows" is the bookkeeping counterpart to the current
account item "imputed interest earnings on private assets held abroad."
3/ This does not include additional disbursements of USS 950 million and
US$ 600 million under the Interest Support Facilities of respectively the
Bank and the IMF.



10
30.   To meet the above needs, funding is expected to be available from net
lending by bilaterals and the international financial institutions. In
addition, substantial direct foreign investment (DFI) is projected to take
place in response to the sound economic reforms and consistent policies of the
current Government, including the recent liberalization of the foreign
investment regime. However, Table 2 indicates that funds available from these
sources fall short of gross financing needs: the financing gap is projected
at $23.5 billion cumulatively over the period ending in 1994, or almost $4
billion per year. This includes amortization on commercially held debt ($12.7
billion). Therefore, the corresponding net financing required from debt
service reduction, new money and return of Mexican flight capital would be
$10.8 billion.
31.   This scenario is sensitive to developments in the world environment.
Every dollar decrease in world prices for Mexican oil costs Mexico $0.5
billion in foregone export revenues per annum. Thus if oil prices are two
dollars lower than assumed, Mexico would lose up to $6.0 billion over six
years.2' The financing gap would increase correspondingly. Of course
unanticipated increases in the price of oil would reduce the financing gap.
Similarly, a one percentage point increase in international interest rates
would increase the cumulative current account deficit by close to $6 billion
over the period, with a matching increase in the financing gap. This
sensitivity to international interest rates highlights the potential benefits
of fixed interest debt instruments.
PART III - THE DEBT AGREMNT BETWEEN MEICO AND THE COMRCIAL BANKS
A.    Terms of the Agreement
32.   On September 15, 1989, the Government of Mexico and the Bank Advisory
Committee representing the commercial bank creditors reached agreement on a
financing package covering the period 1989-92, restructuring approximately
US$48.4 billion of Mexico's external debt. The agreement consists of a menu
of financing options which includes two debt and debt service reduction
facilities and four new money facilities. On the same day, the Government of
Mexico disseminated a term sheet to all of its commercial bank creditors and
invited them to participate in the financing operation. The following are the
summary terms of the financing options offered by Mexico to its commercial
bank creditors under the 1989-92 Financing Package:
Debt and Debt Service Reduction Options
Option A: Collateralized Floating Rate Discount Bond Exchange.
./ Oil export volumes are projected to remain constant for the next six
years. The oil prices mentioned refer to the average price of Mexico's oil
exports. Recently, this price has stayed about $3.50 US$ below the price for
West-Texas Intermediate.



11
Creditors may exchange eligible debt for new collateralized floating
rate discount bonds issued by the United Mexican States in a principal
amount equal to 65% of the principal amount of the elegible debt offered
for exchange. The new bonds will be in registered form, will mature in
a single installment on December 31, 2019 and will bear interest at a
rate of 13/16% per annum over the six-month LIBOR rate for the currency
in which the bonds are issued. (Bonds will be issued in: Canadian and
U.S. Dollars; Belgian, French and Swiss Francs; Deutsche Marks; Dutch
Guilders; Italian Lire; Japanese Yen; and Pounds Sterling). Payment of
the full principal amount of the Discount Bonds on December 31, 2019
will be secured by a pledge by Mexico of zero-coupon U.S, Treasury
obligations (or other comparable collateral for other currencies).
Payment of interest will be secured by a pledge by Mexico of cash or
permitted investments in the currency of the bonds in an amount equal to
eighteen months' interest (calculated at a constant interest rate of 10%
per annum in the case of discount bonds issued in US dollars).
Option B: Collateralized Fixed Rate Par Bond Exchange.
Creditors may exchange eligible debt for Collateralized Fixed Rate Par
Bonds issued by the United Mexican States in a principal amount equal to
100% of the principal amount of eligible debt offered for exchange. The
Fixed Rate Par Bonds will also be in registered form; will be issue' in
the same ten currencies as under Option A above; and will mature in one
maturity on the same day as the Floating Rate Discount Bonds. The
interest rate payable on the Fixed Rate Par Bonds will be 6.25% per
annum for those issued in U.S. dollars and corresponding rates for those
issued in other currencies. Principal and interest payments on the
Fixed Rate Par Bonds will be secured in the same fashion as for the
Floating Rate Discount Bonds, except that instead of using the assumed
constant interest rate concept, the interest payments on the Fixed Rate
Par Bonds will be secured to their full contractual levels.
New Money 0Rtions
Option C: 1989-92 New Money Credit Agreement.
Lenders may elect to commit to lend up to 100% of their New Money
Commitment (defined as 12.5% of Facilities 2 and 3 advances under the
1987 Multi-Facility Agreement and 25% of all other eligible debt) in the
New Money Credit Agreement which will provide the United Mexican States
(with an undertaking by Banco de Mexico to provide foreign exchange)
with a 15 year (7 years grace) loan at an interest rate of (a) 13/16%
over LIBOR, or (b) 13/16% over the three months Certificate of Deposit
rate or (c) a fixed rate calculated to provide a comparable yield to
maturity as the floating rate options. The loans will be made in the
same currencies as the Debt and Debt Service Reduction Bonds, except
that European Currency Units can also be lent under the New Money Credit
Agreement. Amounts under this Agreement will be available for
disbursement in six semi-annual tranches commencing on December 1, 1989
and concluding in July 1992. The first tranche will permit the



12
disbursement of 40% of the loans and each subsequent tranche will permit
the withdrawal of 12%.
Option D: New Money Bonds.
Each creditor may elect to purchase New Money bonds in an amount up to
50% of its New Money Commitment, although not more than $500 million of
New Money bonds will be issued in total. New Money Bonds will be issued
by the United Mexican States; they will be in registered form, issued in
U.S. dollars; and will bear interest at the rate of 13/16% over LIBOR.
They will be issued on the date of the borrowing of the first tranche
under the New Money Credit Agreement, and will be repayable in equal
semi-annual installments beginning in 1997 and ending in 2004 (15 year
maturity, 7 year grace).
Option E: Onlending Facility.
Up to a limit of 20% of its New Money Commitment, each creditor may
elect to make advances to a trust established by Mexico (with Banco de
Mexico as trustee) for the purpose of onlending funds to Mexican public
sector borrowers with the guarantee of the United Mexican States. These
advances will bave the same repayment schedule as the loans made under
the New Money Credit option (15 years maturity, 7 years grace), at an
interest rate of (a) 13/16% over LIBOR, or (b) 13/16% over the three
months Certificate of Deposit rate. Advances made under the Onlending
Facility may be in any of the currencies permitted under the New Money
Credit Agreement; and the same restriction on availability applies as
the one on lcans under the New Money Credit Agreement.
Option F: Medium-Term Trade Credit Facility.
Up to a limit of 20% of its New Money Commitment, each creditor may
elect to make advances to a trust established by Mexico (with Banco de
Mexico as trustee) for the purpose of financing certain eligible trade
credits (e.g., unguaranteed portions of bilateral trade credits to
Mexican public sector borrowers, or trade credits to Mexican private
sector borrowers for transactions approved by Mexico). The Medium-Term
Trade Credit Facility will have the same primary terms and conditions as
the Onlending Facility.
33.   Creditors holding claims in their home currency can, if that home
currency is not the US dollar, choose whether to maintain the original
currency denomination or switch into US dollars. If they choose to remain in
their non-dollar home currency, the total funds devoted to enhancement will
not exceed what would have to be provided for an equivalent dollar claim. 4/
Banks holding Mexican obligations contracted in the 1983-88 period will
reschedule them to 7 years grace with 15 years maturity to the extent they are
i/ There is one exception to this rule. Up to 5% of the Yen-denominated debt
held by Japanese creditors is eligible for full collateralization of principal
through zero coupon bonds and 18 months of interest coverage.



13
not swapped for par or discount bonds. Mexico's external creditors would
provide all the necessary waivers to make feasible the issue of new debt and
debt service reduction instruments with credit enhancement.
34.   The Government would be entitled to buy back any of the newly issued
discount or par bonds if (a) it is current on interest payments, and (b) the
collateral account for interest support is either not drawn upon or
replenished. This latter restriction lapses after end-1994.
35.   Mexico would continue to service the interest on its existing loans on
their contractual terms until the signing of the 1989-92 financing agreement.
However, the terms of the agreement would, upon signing, be implemented with
retroactive effect from July 1, 1989. For the new money commitments, this
implies that at the time of the signing, participating banks would disburse
immediately all the installments due until and at that time, subject to the
satisfaction of certain conditions precedent (which include the issuance of
the discount and par bonds). Similarly, once the discounted and par bonds are
issued, Mexico would deduct from the initial interest payments the amounts of
interest paid on the exchanged loans in excess of the interest due on the new
bonds, after July 1989. This clause was introduced to eliminate any possible
perverse incentive on the part of the banks to delay the signing of the
agreement.
Debt-EauitX Conversion
36.   Banks participating in the 1989-92 financing package will have access to
a debt/equity program which would be authorized up to $1 billion per year.
This program would be limited to public sector companies that are being
privatized and to qualified infrastructure projects. The lower limit of
discount would be 35% on par bonds, new money and eligible old debt, and the
conversion of discount bonds would not be higher than the face value.
Recaeture Clause
37.   Banks that have chosen discount or par bonds are eligible to recover
some of the money given up through a "recapture clause". Under this clause,
beginning July 1996, 30% of the additional oil revenues Mexico gets if the
price of oil rises above $14 per barrel (to be adjusted for US inflation),
will accrue to the banks that have granted debt and debt service relief. The
total amount to be recaptured, however, would not exceed in any year 3% of the
nominal value of the debt exchanged for debt reduction instruments at the time
of the exchange (i.e. there is no indexation of this cap). Furthermore, the
amount available under this clause will be scaled back by the percentage of
the total debt brought under the two debt reduction options.
Oil Contingency Facility
38.   Furthermore, arrangements are under negotiation for contingent financing
in case of a decline in the price of oil; these are to be provided in a
separate package. A small group of banks has been approached to put up
contingency financing for the event that oil prices might fall below a trigger



14
level which is to be determined. These funds would be made available in
addition to the new money option and are expected to take the form of a
revolving three year credit line of up to US$500 million. Mexico could draw
on these funds during the period 1990-92, if oil prices went below the trigger
level, and would need to repay if oil prices rose above another, higher,
trigger level, also yet to be negotiated. At the end of the three years, any
outstanding advance would be converted into a 7-year loan with a four year
grace period. An important feature of this arrangement is that the contingent
nature of the facility ensures that commercial funds would become available in
circumstances under which it might be difficult to obtain lending on a
commercial basis.
39.   Preparation of this facility is unlikely to be completed by the time the
Executive Directors consider the proposals contained in this report because
Mexico and the Bank Advisory Committee decided to complete the financing
package first. So far, commitments totalling US$150 million have been
received from two major banks, and some ten additional banks are expected to
come in. The Government has submitted to the Bank a 1htter, signed jointly by
those two banks, setting out their commitment to take the lead management of
the facility, provide the amount specified above and make a best effort to
fully fund the facility.
Credit Enhancement
40.   All discount and par bonds would be repaid in a single installment on
December 31, 2019. The principal would be secured by the pledge of zero
coupon US Treasurv obligations (or other comparable securities for bonds in
other currencies) with a maturity date matching that of the Mexican bonds. In
addition, interest payments would be partly secured by a pledge of cash or
permitted investments in the relevant currencies for an amount equal to 18
months of interest payments due. 11 The securities and cash pledged as
collateral will be held in special collateral accounts, to be managed by the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as collateral agent.11 Creditors' debt
service would be paid out of these collateral accounts in case the Government
failed to make interest payments for longer than 30 days, for as long as there
are funds in the accounts. To enable establishment of the special collateral
accounts, waivers of the negative pledge restrictions are necessary and have
been received from Mexico's commercial bank creditors. As discussed in para.
82, it is recommended that the Bank would also provide a similar waiver.
l/ That is, covering three semi-annual interest payments.
J More than one account may be needed to secure interest payments
denominated in different currencies.



15
Table 3           ENHANCEMENT FUNDS REQUIRED (US$ billions)
T                   T
Discount    Par         Total
Bond      Bond
Principal collateralizaton:    1.16       2.18        3.35
Interest Coverage              1.80       2.11        3.90
Total                          2.96      4.29        7.25
Note: Based on a 6 months based 30 year bond yield of 7.925%, or a cost of
9.7 cts per dollar, a debt base of $48.4 billion, and a mix of 46% Par
Bond, 38% Discount Bond and 16% New Money. Debt held by Mexican banks is
not included in the calculations. Totals may not add up due to rounding
errors.
41.   According to the term sheet, a total of at least $7 billion is needed to
secure the debt and debt service reduction instruments subscribed by Me.ico's
commercial creditors, and more if at the mix chosen $7 billion is not enough
for full collateralization of principal and 18 months interest coverage. As
of January 11, 1990, with almost 99% of the commitments obtained, 49% of the
debt not held by Mexican agencies has been committed to the par bond, and 41%
to the discount bond, with the remainder going towards the new money option.
Based on current information on the likely choice of the remainder of the non-
Mexican creditors, and placing Mexican creditors in the new money option for
purposes of the calculations, results in a mix of 46.4% par bond, 38.1%
discount bond and 15.5% new money. This mix would require $7.25 billion
(Table 3), $0.25 billion more than has been committed sofar. The calculation
is based on the long term bond yield at which the US Treasury has agreed to
sell 30 year zero coupon debt instruments to the Mexican Government.
42.   The commitments and timing of the various sources are shown in Table 4
below. The Table outlines which of the various commitments will be available
in February/March 1990 and the extent to which bridging facilities will be
needed.
43.   Credit enhancement is scheduled to be implemented in February/March
1990. Collateralization of principal through purchase of discount bonds
requires availability of the full amount of enhancement money on or prior to
the time when the bonds are issued. Moreover, although it is possible to
think of arrangements where interest coverage would be provided gradually, in
line with accumulating interest obligations, such a gradual release would
clearly reduce the value of the coverage unless at least the discounted value
of interest payments during a period equal to the amount of coverage provided
is available up front. Any other arrangement would diminish the effectiveness
of the enhancement operation. Therefore, to be useful, enhancement money for
interest payments too needs to be available up front. As a result, the full



16
amount of the set asides and the interest support loan must be made available
to the collateral agents by February/March 1990.
Table 4      AVAILABILITY OF ENHANCEIENT MONEYS (US$ millions)
MF4/        IBRD        Mexico      Japan        Total
Available Feb/March 1990
Interest support        6063/        12603O
Scheduled Set Asides    272           375
Advancing 1990 IF Set
Asides to Feb/March 90  3643'
Advancing a Portion of
IBRD 1990 Set Asides
to Feb/March 90                     3753/
Japanese Parallel financing
and Cofinancing                                             14001.21
Enhancements Available
Feb/M1rch 90            1242         2010        1243        14001/       5895
Enhancements
available later          455                                  6501/       1105
Total Enhancements      1697         2010        1243        2050"/      7000
Available
Total Enhancements Required                                              250
Total Available for Debt Reduction Only (IMF and Bank Set Asides)          :1841
Total Available for Interest Support Only; Interest Facility IMF and Bank:1866
Notes:
1/  Japanese money includes cofinancing for $1.25 billion, which is not
directly available for credit enhancement purposes, and a bridge loan of
US$150 million by Japanese conmmercial banks.
2/  Of which $900 million is conditional on compliance with the second tranche
conditions of Bank adjustment loans.
3/  Subject to Board approval.
4/  The dollar value of the IMF contributions has been calculated on the basis
of a SDR value of US$1.30.
44.   To meet the enhancement requirements by February/March 1990, the Bank,
the Export-Import Bank of Japan Zl/ and the IMF have committed themselves to
1/ EXIM Bank loans are for cofinancing and are not direct   available for
credit enhancement purposes.



17
front load their contributions to the extent possiblo. The table above shows
the degree to which front loading by each party is feasible. As the front
loading obtained provides only 'JS$5.9 billion by the target date, available
funds fall short of the required US$7.25 billion. The Government has
therefore approached a group of commercial banks for a bridge loan to provide
Us$1.1 billion towards filling the gap. Furthermore, to cover the remaining
US$240 million, an agreement has been reached to provide only the discounted
value of interest enhancement funds up front, to be placed in safe securities
in such a way that the full amount will become available in line with growing
interest payment obligations. This is estimated to reduce up front
requirements by US$205 million, leaving an estimated shortfall of some
$40 million. The Government will fund the remaining shortfall from reserves.
To ensure that the debt exchange can go through as scheduled, the Government
would, as a condition of the proposed loan's effectiveness, submit a sound
financing plan to the Bank, confirming that the full amount of the required
enhancement funds will be available on time.
B.    Evaluation of the A4reement
Debt Relief
45.   Given the current status of subscriptions to the 1989-92 financing
package, it is now expected that debt and debt service reduction instruments
totalling almost US$41 billion, and new money instruments of about US$7
billion (inclusive of debt held by Mexican banks) would be secured upon
signature of the agreements.1 To ensure that Mexico's financing package is
firmly in place before Bank funds are made available for credit enhancement,
it would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan, that the
Government has concluded agreements for the exchange of debt aggregating at
least US$40.5 billion and for new money loans aggregating at least US$5
billion equivalent.
46.   Table 5 below summarizes the element of debt relief embedded in each of
the three options the commercial banks can choose between. In addition, the
Table evaluates the impact of the actual subscription, a blend of 46.4% par
bonds (IR), 38.1% discount bonds (PR), and 16% new money (NM). Discount bonds
chosen by Mexican banks are treated as new money, i.e. they are not counted in
the measure of debt relief.
1/ The total falls short of $48.4 by about $0.4 billion. This represents the
unenhanced portion of the Facility 2 and 3 instruments brought into the debt
or debt service reduction options.



18
Table 5:          DEBT RELIEF IMPLIED BY THE THREE OPTIONS
Percentage Debt Relief:
Without Recapture       With Recapture
New Money                       0                       0
Interest reduction            28                       25
Principal reduction           35                       32
46% IR/38% PR/16% NM          26                       24
Note: Debt relief is defined as the reduction in the discounted value of deut
service as a percentage of the face value of the outstanding debt.
47. Of course, new money implies no debt relief. The principal reduction
option involves 35% debt relief, since the mark-up of 13/16 of one percentage
point on top of LIBOR will not be changed under this scenario. Evalu&ted at
current interest rate projections, the low 'nterest rate option implies 28%
debt relief. Of This results in a debt relief percentage for the 46/38/16 mix
of 26 percent of the face value of US$48.4 billion.
48. Furthermore, the debt and debt service relief options qualify for the
recapture clause. The value of these provisions depends both on expected
future oil prices and on the variability of these prices. Thus any evaluation
needs explicitly to incorporate the impact of uncertainty on the expected cost
of this clause; evaluating the impact of the recapture clause on debt service
obligations at some point in the future based on estimated oil prices is not
enough. Preliminary estimates using market information on the pricing of oil
options suggest that the recapture clause is worth about 3% of the amount
brought under the debt/debt-service reduction options. Thus, the debt relief
would be reduced to 23.8% for the 46/38/16 mix. In absolute amounts, this
would imply $1.2 billion less debt relief. However, this reduction would not
affect the available financing in the next six years, since the clause does
not come in operation until 1996. Also, the 46/38/16 scenario would still
involve a substantial amount of debt relief, as the Table indicates.
49. One can assess the amount of debt relief from two angles. First, is it
enough given the resources devoted to the package? In other words, is it a.a
efficient use of the enhancement funds? Close to $12 billion debt relief
(23.8% of $48.4 billion, Table 5) for $7.04 billion dollars of enhancement-U/
9/ This number is sensitive to the projections used for international
interest rates. The Table uses a LIBOR of 8.5% for 1990 and 8% for the
remaining years. The two debt relief options are equivalent in terms of
implied debt relief if LIBOR would stay at 9.1% for the coming thirty
years.However, the interest reduction option provides more than debt service
relief. Because the interest rate on this exit instrument will be fixed, it
also provides insurance against interest rate fluctuations.
IQ/ 7.25 minus 0.205, the expected cost saving of the arrangement under which
Mexico needs to put up only the discounted value of the required moneys for
interest support.



19
represents a discount of almost 40 percent; this was close to the market
discount for cash buy-backs at the time the negotiations were concluded,
although the se^urity offered to banks through the enhancements is in fact
much less than what would be provided with an actual cash buy-back. The fact
that the implicit discount comes so close to what could have been obtained
through cash buy-backs in spite of offering much less security than cash would
have provided suggests an affirmative answer.
50.   An alternative approach to the same question would compare the implicit
rate of return on the enhancement money with standard criteria for Bank
projects. Such a rate of return can be calculated by considering the whole
package as a project with as net benefits the reduction in scheduled cash flow
over the next thirty years that the deal will bring about. This calculation
indicates a real rate of return of 36%, clearly well above the vast majority
of approved Bank projects. Moreover, such a rate of return calculation, by
concentrating on the net foreign exchange savings, ignores the favorable
domestic impact of the deal and as such is an underestimate of the benefits of
the deal. The answer to the question of efficient use of Bank money would
thus seem to be unambiguously positive: this is efficient use of Bank funds.
51.   The second angle from which to assess the extent the amount of debt
relief is not from the point of view of use of enhancement moneys, but from
Mexico's point of view. Is it enough to allow efficient growth to take place
without the fiscal and balance of payment problems that have stymied the
process of growth over the past six to seven years? This question is taken up
in the following two Sections.
Impact on Financing Gap and Creditworthiness
52.   The effects of the debt package on the financing gap are shown in
Table 6. The table shows the impact of the 46/38/16 mixture on the financing
gap. The base case is also shown, with and without the rescheduling of $12.7
billion of amortization payments to the commercial banks for 1989-94.
TABLE 6: FINANCING GAP ($ billion)
Base Case:
Before     After     46/38/16
Year   resch.     resch.      mixture
89-91   12.0       6.5          2.1
89-94   23.5      10.8          2.0
53.   The 46/38/16 mixture would leave a gap cf -nly $0.3 billion per year on
average, a number that is well within the margix. of error of the estimates.
Moreover, for such a small number, it is not unreasonable to count on return
of flight capital in response to the renewed confidence in government
macroeconomic policies this deal has already led to and the favorable tax
treatment the Mexican Government has accorded to Mexican citizens repatriating
capital from abroad. In fact substantial return of flight capital has taken
place since mid-July (over $1.5 billion).



20
54.   Table 7 below lists the impact of the 46/38/16 mix on creditworthiness
indicators and, for comparison, the corresponding 'Base Case" projections. By
assumption, in the base case the financing gap is filled by new money at LIBOR
plus 13/16 so that planned output growth indeed does take place. Thus the
improvement shown in the Table is a conservative estimate of the favorable
impact of the debt deal; in reality new money would not have been forthcoming
and hence growth could not have taken place. Nevertheless, all the indicators
show substantial improvement in Mexico's creditworthiness indicators as a
consequence of the package.
TABLE 7:                CREDITWORTHINESS INDICATORS (percentages)
Debt/GDP  Base case       46/38/16         Interest/    Base         46/38/16
Year:    Before resch.   Mixture             GDP      Before resch.  Mixture
89-91       49.2         46.5              89-91             4.5         4.1
92-94       42.1          37.5             92-94             3.6         3.1
Debt service/                              Debt Service/Exports of
GDP                                        Goods and non-factor services
89-91        7.9           6.7             89-91             42.5       35.8
92-94        6.2          4.7              92-94             31.7       24.3
ImDact on Growth - MaterialitX Test
55.   The debt relief package will reduce the net transfer Mexico needs to
make to its creditors by almost $4 billion per year over the 1989-1994 period.
Half of this amount would come from traditional rescheduling of amortization.
The reduction in required external transfers will have a direct beneficial
impact on Mexico's fiscal situation and its likely output growth. However, at
least as important would be the indirect, "secondary" effects through renewed
confidence. A reduced net external transfer means reduced pressure on the
exchange rate. Also, because this is a medium term deal, the uncertainty
about future exchange rates, financial regulation and taxation has been
reduced considerably. This greatly reduces the risk associated with Peso-
denominated public sector debt. One should therefore expect a reduction in
domestic interest rates. Developments since the details of the package became
known in July 1989 support this argument. Nominal interest rates fell from
56% to around 36% on an uncompounded basis immediately after the details of
the package became kno-'n. U1 At the same time, the maturity structure of
public debt has widened considerably, another indication of private
confidence.
IV   Nominal interest rates have since then rebounded to 40%.



21
Impact of Debt Relief on Growth
m" plus arowth rat                                                  I
1.08
1916     1969      1990     1991      1992     1993      199
Year
-  WithOM DtRlif  -+- Not DA dbowt dff. -*- Noe DaDirIgndle El
56.   Figure 1 shows the impact on economic growth of the direct transfer
effect and of the secondary effect through restoration of confidence and
reduction of uncertainty. This is done by using an econometric model for
Mexico to simulate what would happen without a debt package.  /  The
difference between this simulation and the base scenario based on the
availability of the subscribed debt package, indicates the macroeconomic
impact of Mexico's debt package. In the absence of the debt package, Mexico
would have to service fully interest and amortization on all public commercial
debt. This would need to be met out of an already severely cut back budget.
Therefore, the Government would be forced to cut back public investment in
line with the decline of "allowable" external net borrowing. The drop from
the top line to the middle line in Figure 1 indicates the direct impact on
growth of this cut back in public sector investment. Moreover, it is assumed
that the Government would, even under such stressful circumstances, attempt to
maintain its stabilization effort. It would then be highly unlikely that
domestic interest rates would come down without a debt package. Therefore,
domestic real interest rates stay at 30% in this simulation; 30% is the value
that prevailed on average in the year preceding the debt accord. Thus,
private investment would decline because of higher real interest rates,
2/  The model is presented in S. van Wijnbergen (1989), "Growth, External
Debt and the Real Exchange Rate in Mexico", PPR Working Paper no 257.



22
compounding the negative impact on growth caused by the fall in public
investment. This secondary effect causes the further decline in growth from
the middle to the bottom line in the Figure 1.
57.   Both effects have a major impact on growth.  Output growth would be
lower by one percentage point initially; as time goes by the difference in
growth deepens to more than two percent by 1994, as both private and public
investment decline. Over the next six years, average growth would be almost 2
percentage points lower, to reach only 2.6 percent of GDP by 1994 and less
than that before. About half of the final slowdown in growth is due to the
impact a failure to implement a debt deal would have on domestic real interest
rates which, in turn, would reduce private investment. Not surprisingly,
employment growth would slow down too, by about one percentage point on
average. In this scenario, without access to external funds, a real
devaluation would be unavoidable. This is of course the main channel through
which uncertainty on the external debt situation influences domestic real
interest rates.
58.   If, instead of full service of existing debt obligations, one takes as
alternative the case where all principa is rescheduled but interest is fully
paid, the net marginal impact of the debt package on growth is still
substantial. In that case, the direct transfer effect is halved, for a total
of less than 0.5% per annum in total instead of slightly under one percent per
annum. But a pure rescheduling exercise would leave a substantial financing
gap ($10.8 billion), so no favorable domestic effects should be expected from
rescheduling alone. Accordingly, the full secondary impact of the debt deal
through its impact on domestic real interest rates and investor confidence
would not be affected by the change in alternative against which the
comparison is made. Thus, even judged against this less extreme alternative,
one should still expect a net marginal effect of the debt deal on GDP growth
of around 1.5 percent per annum over the 1989-1994 period.
59.   Such econometric results should be interpreted with caution; however, in
a well defined formal sense, they represent the best use of currently
available information. Based on these results a clear conclusion emerges: the
debt package does meet the minimum requirements for restoration of growth in
Mexico, provided that macroeconomic management remains stringent and
structural adjustment is pursued vigorously. But without the debt package,
growth can not be expected to exceed two percent in any of the coming six
years; with the debt package, a gradual restoration of growth towards 5% per
annum -- the Government's goal --is likely. Thus, the materiality condition
is met.
60.   A danger to this scenario would be excessive reliance on nominal
exchange rate policy in the inflation program; this puts the burden of real
exchange rate adjustment on inflation differentials, a slow process ut
Mexico's current low inflation rate. But the Mexican Government has taken a
considerably more flexible approach to nominal exchange rates since January
1989. The nominal exchange rate is now devalued more or less in line with
domestic inflation, which means that the real exchange rate depreciates at a
rate close to the foreign inflation rate. This is supported by the tightening
of fiscal policy that has also taken place.



23
PART rv - p'RPOSED BANR SU PPRTt
61.   Bank lending has, since 1986, made major contributions to policy reform
in Mexico providing support to the maintenance of a consistent macroeconomic
framework and deepening structural reforms aimed at creating the preconditions
for economic recovery.
62.   Adjustment lending in the past has supported critical reforms in the
trade, agriculture. parastatal enterprise and industry sectors. Earlier this
year, the Executive Directors approved three sector adjustment loans,
amounting to US$1.5 billion. These loans were in support of new policy
initiatives in the finance and industry sectors, and privatization and more
efficient management of public enterprises. The policy measures that these
Bank operations supported and the adjustment program and macroeconomic
policies of the Government provide a sound framework for the recovery of
sustainable economic growth over the medium term. In addition, they are likely
to contribute to the achievement of longer term goals of economic efficiency,
alleviation of poverty, and improved environmental management. In recognition
of Mexico's high debt burden and in anticipation of a medium term financing
and debt reduction plan, the Executive Directors also approved under the
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (3085-ME), Public Enterprise Reform Loan
(3086-ME) and the Industrial Sector Policy Loan (3087-ME) in June 1989 set
asides for debt reduction in the amount of US$125 million under each (total:
US$375 million), subject to there being a Debt Reduction Plan satisfactory to
the Bank.
63.   Subscription to the 1989-92 financing and debt package has now been
obtained for about 99% of Mexico's outstanding eligible public debt, so the
package has essentially been concluded. The Government is expected to sign
the package in early February. As the evaluation in Part III has shown, the
Government's medium term financing plan, including the debt reduction that
would be achieved, is satisfactory. This represents substantial progress
towards obtaining adequate financing for 1990 and the medium term beyond. But,
implementation of the debt exchange is subject to the availability of the
necessary credit enhancement from the Bank, IMF and other sources. All credit
enhancement elements discussed in paras. 40-44 will, therefore, now have to be
put in place. The Bank, together with the IMF and the other sources, has a
specific role to play in providing the necessary credit enhancement. Part IV
of this report summarizes the technical features of the various credit
enhancement elements and the terms and conditions under which the enhancement
would be made available. Cofinancing with the Export-Import Bank of Japan is
also described. Recommendations in respect of the whole package are sunmed up
at the end for consideration by the Executive Directors.
A.    Set Asides
64.   Consistent with the guidelines approved by the Board earlier in 1989, a
total of US$750 million would be set aside from adjustment loans to support



24
the reduction of Mexico's public debt with commercial banks. The set asides
may be used to provide principal or interest collateral for the discount bonds
that would be issued by the Government. The proposed level for set asides
amounts to 25% of all adjustment loans the Bank has made or expects to make to
Mexico in the three-year period FY89-91.
65.   The set asides would be funded from six different adjustment operations
over the FY89-91 period as shown below:
FY89      FY90      FY91
US$ Millions
Financial Sector Loan (3085-ME)           125
Public Enterprise Reform (3086-ME)        125
Industrial Sector Loan (3087-ME)          125
Fertilizer Sector Loan (2919-ME)            --       150
Agricultural Sector Loan (2918-ME)          --       175
Steel Sector Adjustment Loan (2916-ME)    --          50
New Adjustment Loans                        --        --
Totals                                    375        375
66.   The first US$375 million in set asides has been available from the three
FY89 adjustment loans since their effectiveness in June 1989, subject only to
a favorable judgement by the Bank that the Government's debt reduction plan
meets the materiality criteria as required by the Bank's Articles and as
elaborated by the guidelines approved by the Executive Directors for debt
reduction operations. As concluded earlier, Mexico's financing package does
meet these criteria. It implies an effective debt relief of 24% even after an
allowance is made for the recapture clause. In addition, it provides insurance
against interest rate fluctuations through the fixed interest rate on the par
bonds. These together assure that Mexico's economy can recover a sustainable
growth path. Therefore, the set asides would be released and disbursed for
collateral designated for the debt reduction program by the Borrower and the
Government, in accordance with agreed procedures.
67.   To make available the remaining US$375 million in set asides for debt
reduction in FY90, it is proposed to amend the loan agreements for the
Fertilizer Sector Loan (2919-ME), the Agricultural Sector Loan (2918-ME), and
the Steel Sector Adjustment Loan (2916-ME).
68.   With the approval of the Executive Directors, the Fertilizer Loan's
policy targets have been adjusted recently and the operation became effective
on November 2, 1989. The Bank has since reviewed the first tranche conditions
and found that they have also been met. The Executive Directors were informed
on December 14, 1989, that the first US$100 million would now be available to
finance eligible fertilizer imports. But, as anticipated in the December 14
note, with the concurrence of the Government, the loan agreement would be
amended to replace the originally proposed import financing with set asides.
It is proposed now to provide a total of US$150 million for additional set



25
asides in support of the Government's discount bonds. The proposed provision
would not jeopardize the availability of fertilizers the country needs.
FERTIMEX, the sector agency supported by the Bank loan, has already imported
adequate amounts of raw materials for fertilizer production for the
agricultural season beginning in late 1989, before the revised loan became
effective, and future imports up to US$50 million, to be financed from the
loan's second tranche, would be covered from reserves, as the imports take
place. Hence, the release of these set asides would not interfere with the
objectives of the operation.
69.   Another US$175 million wou].d be provisioned for set asides from the
Agricultural Sector Loan. Based on agreements reached with the Government
earlier this year, the loan's US$200 million second tranene would be available
shortly for the financing of general imports, including agricultural imports,
but excepting fertilizers. First drafts of studies of sugar pricing,
guarantee prices and water charges have recently been reviewed by Bank staff
and found satisfactory. The Government's budget allocation for investments in
the agriculture sector has been increased substantially, but still remains
below agreed levels. Providing set asides in an amount of US$175 million out
of the loan would leave US$25 million in the second tranche of the loan and
would enable the Bank to make available all its contribution to Mexico's
credit enhancement by early 1990. With the concurrence of the Government, the
loan agreement would be amended to provide for these set asides. Because of
previous delays in meeting second tranche conditions, the Government has
relied on other sources to fund the foreign exchange requirements of its
agricultural and general imports, and concurs with the proposed set asides
which would help meet its top priority foreign exchange needs at this time.
70.   The remaining US$50 million for set asides would be made available fron
the Steel Sector Adjustment Loan (2916-ME). This loan has been supporting
reforms in steel sector policy through two US$50 million import financing
tranches and a US$300 million sector investment component. While the first
tranche was released upon effectiveness in March 1988, some remaining second
tranche conditions are being met only now. A separate communication will be
circulated shortly to the Executive Directors advising of the availability of
the second tranche. At the Government's request, the loan agreement would be
amended to provide the remaining set asides for collateralization of discount
bonds, thus enabling the Bank to provide its full contribution of US$750
million for the purpose. Because of past delays in releasing the loan's
second tranche, steel sector imports -- which were to be financed from it,
have already been funded from other sources of the public and private sectors.
Therefore, conversion of the full amount of the second tranche into set aside
would not, in any way, jeopardize implementation of the Government's steel
sector restructuring program.
Imolementation Arrangements
71.   The proceeds of the Bank's set asides would be used for supporting the
new discount bonds the Government would issue in exchange for existing
sovereign M.exican obligations at the agreed 35% discount. Repayment of the
principal of these discount bonds would be fully secured by the pledge by



26
Mexico of US Treasury zero-coupon obligations (or other comparable collateral
for bonds in other currencies), having a principal amount and maturity
matching the bonds. Disbursements from the set asides provided by the Bank
and the IMF would be used, in support of the discount bonds, to purchase the
US Treasury obligations or other comparable collateral for the principal or
for the interest payments of discount bonds. Given that the required total
principal collateralization for discount bonds amounts to at least US$1.17
billion, it is not likely that Bank set asides would have to be used for
interest collateral for the discount bonds. But, these arrangements do provide
flexibility, thus simplifying implementation of the credit enhancement. Unless
the Bank agrees otherwise, set aside funds would be disbursed by the Bank
concurrently with the funds of the proposed Interest Support Loan.  Legal
arrangements between the Goverrment, the Borrower and the Bank in respect of
the method of disbursement and use of the set aside funds would be set out in
implementation agreements under Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the various
adjustment operations referred to in para. 65.
B.    Interest Support Loan
Funding Level
72.   To ensure that the full funding required for the Government's debt
reduction program is available, the proposed Bank loan of US$1.26 billion
would finance collateral for interest payments on discount and par bonds which
are eligible for credit enhancement under the Government's exchange offer.
Mexico's 1989-92 commercial financing package has been marketed among the
country's commercial creditors, stressing that in addition to the principal of
the exit bonds, the interest payments too would be secured, on a roll-over
basis, for an 18-month period. This enhancement feature made the package
attractive and was instrumental in assuring a highly favorable response from
the market. Interest support is feasible only because, apart from the
Government, funds would also be contributed by the Bank, the IMF and other
sources. Indeed, very substantial lending operations, including the special
arrangements presented in this report, were necessary by the official
development assistance institutions involved, over a relatively short period
of time, to provide funding for the enhancement package.
73.   The Bank's contribution for interest coverage on discount and par bonds
would be made available through the proposed interest support loan. The
US$1.26 billion operation would account for 20% of the Bank's indicative
lending program for Mexico in FY89-91. Lending over this three year period is
expected to reach US$6.3 billion, supporting further adjustment, alleviation
of poverty, targeted social programs, environmental management and sector
investment programs designed to generate growth. Some US$950 million of the
US$1.26 billion loan, representing 15% of the expected US$6.3 billion three-
year lending volume, would be additional to this volume of lending. However,
consistent with the guidelines and earlier consultations with the Board on
this issue, the remaining US$310 million of the interest support loan --
equivalent to 5% of the expected lending in FY89-91 -- would be funded from
the US$6.3 billion. As a result of this funding for debt reduction, Bank
lending for adjustment and investment would drop to US$1.76 billion in FY90
from US$2.23 billion in FY89. This is an ambitious lending program, implying



27
a substantial increase in Bank exposure (para. 97); but without the full level
of Bank support recommended in this report, conclusion of the 1989-92
financing package-- and, hence, the achievement of satisfactory economic
growth -- would simply not be feasible.
74.   Of course, another precondition to recovery of growth is continued
progress in the implementation of the Government's reform agenda. As
summarized in paras. 9-17, the Government has dor,e extremely well in this
area. It went well beyond the core reform of trade liberalization and the
initial stages of stabilization. More flexible direct foreign investment
rules, opening up new petrochemical sectors to private investors,
liberalization of the financial market and removal of interest rate cei'lings,
and reducing the role of the public sector in production by selling,
transferring or liquidating some 750 state-owned enterprises will go a long
way to bolster private sector investments and help recover sustainable
economic growth in Mexico. In addition, sustained and deeper fiscal measures
have been adopted, to make sure that the reduction in inflation is permanent.
As a result of these measures, industrial production was up in 1989 and
overall economic growth is now estimated at close to 3%. In view of the
revived economic activity, the Government has recently announced the
acceleration of structural reforms, in order to keep inflation low, while
growth is being restored. Despite the major retrenchment in public spending
since 1982, the adoption of the "National Solidarity Program" in late 1988 has
concentrated limited resources for social programs in the ten poorest states,
thus helping finance rural infrastructure and primary health care and
rehabilitate secondary schools. These measures and realization of the
developmental objectives they promote deserve the full support of the
international financing community. They also justify the Bank support
recommended in this report.
InMiementation Arrangements
75.   Based on the subscription to the discount and par bond options of the
Government's debt reduction program, the Government would enter into exchange
agreements with Mexico's external creditors who participate in the 1989-92
financing package. Based on the subscriptions received to date, it is
estimated that a total of US$3.9 billion will be necessary in collateral to
secure the interest payments that will be due over an 18 month period on all
eligible bonds offered in exchange for existing commercial loans. The
Government intends to appoint fiscal agents that will have responsibility for
the issuance of the discount and par bonds, pursuant to fiscal agency
agreements that would be executed on the same date as the various exchange
agreements.
76. The bondholders would also appoint the Federal Reserve Bank of New York
as collateral agent to hold the collateral for discount and par bonds for the
benefit of the bondholders in the various currencies in which the debt
exchange instruments are subscribed. The collateral agent, whose appointment
would be set out in collateral pledge agreement with the Government, would
open the collateral accounts and deposit into those accounts the cash and
securities available for interest support. Interest earned on the funds held
in the collateral accounts would be released to the Government. The proceeds



28
of the proposed loan would be used solely for the purpose of providing
collateral for interest payments on discount and par bonds under the exchange
offer. The balance in the collateral accounts, once the bonds for which
interest support was provided have matured, would be returned to the
Government.
77. Under the proposed loan the Bank would have the right to accelerate the
loan in case any event shall have occurred that, in the Bank's judgement,
materially and adversely affects the maintenance of collateral, or the pledge
of collateral shall have ceased to be a valid and perfected first prierity
security interest in favor of the collateral agent on behalf of the
bondholders
78. Furthermore, the Bank may require the Borrower to prepay an appropiate
amount of the outstanding principal of the Bank loan, if (a) the Bank
determined that any amount of the proposed loan has not been used prior to the
exchange date for the purposes of collateralization of the bonds; or (b) the
remaining interest collateral is equal or less than the loan amount and is
released to the Government, provided, however, that this provision would not
apply, if the Government establishes, to the satisfaction of the Bank, that
the amount of collateral released has been or will be used for further debt or
debt service reduction.
Transfer of Funds and Effectiveness
79. Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior (BANCOMEXT), one of Mexico's best
performing public development banks, would be the Bank's Borrower. BANCOMEXT
has extensively borrowed from the Bank for trade and export development and
financial sector adjustment, and has, therefore, the necessary experience to
deal with the Bank's requirements. Loan proceeds would be relent on the same
terms and conditions to the Government, which would undertake to pay the
principal and the debt service on the Bank's loan in full; it would also
assume the full foreign exchange risk associated with the Bank loan. As a
condition of the proposed loan's effectiveness, the Borrower would, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, enter into contractual arrangements
with the Guarantor for relending the loan funds. There would be the following
substantive conditions of effectiveness: (a) the Government has concluded
agreements with the participating lenders for the exchange of debt aggregating
at least US$40.5 billion and for new money loans aggregating at least US$5
billion (para. 45); and (b) the Government has confirmed availability of the
required enhancement funds (para. 44).
Disbursements
80. Loan funds would be disbursed for payments in respect of the provision
of collateral for discount and par bonds under the Government's exchange offer
to retire old debt. However, no withdrawals would be made from the loan
account unless (a) the Bank shall have approved the procedures for withdrawals
and for the provision of legal opinions satisfactory to the Bank of counsel
acceptable to the Bank on the exchange and collateral agreements; (b) the Bank
is satisfied with the arrangements for the maintenance of the collateral; (c)



29
unless the Bank otherwise agrees, the set asides to be provided by the Bank
are being disbursed concurrently. The proposed loan's closing date would be
December 31, 1990.
C. Waiver of the Negative Pledje
81. To implement Mexico's credit enhancement scheme for the discount and par
bonds, it is necessary for the Government to obtain limited waivers of the
restrictions against giving security on other external debt -- the negative
pledge restrictions -- contained in agreements that Mexico has entered into
with the Bank, 1DB and other external creditors including the commercial
banks. The Bank's negative pledge restriction provides that no other external
debt shall have priority over the Bank's loans by way of a lien on the public
assets of the Guarantor. Mexico is requesting the Bank and the IDB to grant
the necessary waivers. The IDB is expected to issue the waivers just as it
did waive the restrictions in February 1988 when Mexico's first debt exchange
offer was put togeLner by Morgan Guaranty, collateralizing the full principal
amount of a new bond issue. However, individual holders of outstanding
Mexican bearer bonds were granted an equal and ratable security on their
outstanding Government obligations. Currently, those outstanding bonds amount
to some US$163 million, and those holders would have to be offered similar
treatment to ensure that the 1989-92 package can be implemented. The required
collateralization would cost roughly US$25 million, which would be funded by
the Government. As the Morgan bonds were secured and had no negative pledge
restriction, those bond holders would not have to be consulted.
82. The Government is seeking from the Bank a consent to the pledge by the
Government of collateral up to US$7.5 billion for the principal and interest
payments on the discount and par bonds and also to equally and ratably secure
a limited amount of its outstanding public bond issues. In making its
request, the Government has, as was the case in connection with the 1988
exchange offer managed by Morgan Guaranty, affirmed its obligation to continue
to make timely payment on its loans from the Bank and confirmed that Bank
loans will not be subject to rescheduling. Moreover, it has been acknowledged
that the waiver currently sought would be limited to the exchange offer of the
1989-92 commercial financing package, and that the Bank's position on the
negative pledge restriction under its loans and guarantee agreements with
Mexico in general would not be afa.ected. Confirmation of these
understandings, including a confirmation that the necessary waivers have been
obtained, has already been received in the Bank in writing.
D.   Restructuring of IBRD Guarantee under the 1987 Multi-Facility Agreement
83. The Executive Directors approved partial Bank guarantees up to a total
amount of US$750 million to guarantee 50% of the principal at final maturity
of each of a US$1 billion "Facility 2 - Cofinancing New Money" and a US$500
million "Facility 3 - Growth Cofinancing"under Mexico's 1987 Multi-Facility
Agreement. An issue arose during negotiations between Mexico and the
commercial banks as to whether these loans should be included in the new money
base of the 1989-92 financing package. It was agreed that the entire Facility
2 and 3 loans (US$1.5 billion) would be brought in the new money base.



30
However, the new money base in respect of Facility 2 and 3 loans will be
limited to the unguaranteed portion, i.e. 50%, or US$750 million. Thus, as
stated in the term sheet, commercial banks have been invited to commit new
money up to 25% of the unguaranteed US$750 million.
84. Implementation of the above arrangements would require a restructuring
of the IBRD guarantees for Facilities 2 and 3 in respect of those banks
choosing to participate in the financing package, separating their advances
into two tranches: the first 50% would be unguaranteed and the remaining 50%
would be fully guaranteed by the Bank. Banks which have chosen not to
participate in the financing package will be governed by the terms of the old
1987 guarantees. This change would not involve any increase In the Bank's
financial liability under the existing guarantees, nor would it alter the
other substantive terms of the guarantees. Upon the Executive Directors'
approval, the Bank's 1987 guarantees would be restructured according to the
terms proposed above.
E.   Guarantee for Oil Contingency Facility
85. To provide Mexico some flexibility in responding to any loss in foreign
exchange earnings due to a drop in the international price of oil, a small
group of commercial banks has been approached to syndicate an US$500 million
oil contingency facility (paras 38-39). The Bank has, since the beginning of
Mexico's debt renegotiations, insisted that such a facility would be highly
desirable for the success of the 1989-92 financing package, because access to
additional funds would afford the Government a temporary breathing space in
case this risk concerning oil revenues were to materialize. If oil prices
were to fall drastically, in the absence of such a contingency facility, there
may be a temporary squeeze on the foreign exchange that is available to the
Government to meet its obligations. As a result, implementation of the
Government's structural reform agenda and the recovery of economic growth,
including the shared objectives of the Government's adjustment program, might
very well be compromised. For the facility to provide meaningful relief, the
trigger price of oil should be not less than US$12 per barrel. With an oil
contingency facility in place, the Government would be in a position --
without loss of time -- to concentrate on the design of further adjustment and
alternative policy measures, necessary to address the short term difficulties
arising out of the unforseen drops in the international price of oil.
86. Under present market conditions new money subscriptions have been
limited to less than what was expected initially, when negotiations between
Mexico and the commercial banks started in early 1989. This in itself shows
that the environment has not been propitious for a concerted lending operation
to fund the required oil contingency facility. Nevertheless, two major money
center banks have advised the Government in writing on January 8, 1990, that
they together expect to commit US$150 million to the facility and to undertake
syndication of the remaining US$350 million among a group of 10 to 15 major
international banks. While these banks do not insist on the same credit
enhancement as for tne discount and par bonds, they would be unable to provide
the required financing without any comfort. Therefore, the Bank has been
requested to provide a guarantee. After careful consideration of the
importance of such a contingency facility, and the potential consequences upon



31
Mexico's development program of the lack of access to additional finance if
oil prices were to decline, Management recommends that the Bank should provide
the guarantee, but only if the facility has been syndicated on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Government has already been advised
that, in the Bank's view, a trigger price of at least US$12 per barrel would
be satisfactory. The guarantee would cover the principal maturities up to the
full amount of US$500 million equivalent, on terms outlined in paras. 38-39.
The present value of this guarantee is estimated at about half this amount.
As for similar operations in the past, the guarantee would count against the
Bank'. statutory lending limit only when it is callable. A fee would be
charged to the commercial banks, determined in iine with market prices and
based on principles applied in pricing similar partial Batik guarantees in the
past.
87. When the facility is syndicated at a later date under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, the Board's authorization would be sought
to provide the guarantee. The guarantee would be finalized at the same time
that the necessary indemnity agreement between the Government and the Bank has
been executed.
F. Cofinancinu with the Zinort-Imnort Bank of Janan
88. As discussed in paras. 40-44, the success of Mexico's 1989-92 financing
package hinges on the availability of credit enhancement for the discount and
par bonds which the Government would issue for debt reduction. A total amount
of US$7 billion is being provided jointly by the Fund, the Bank, the
Government of Japan and by Mexico itself, with the Mexican Government
currently making arrangements for any remaining shortfall. The Government of
Japan has decided to make available to the Government of Mexico US$2.05
billion through the Export-Import Bank of Japan. These funds would directly or
indirectly facilitate the use of freed reserves for credit enhancement. Of
the total Japanese contribution, US$1.0 billion equivalent would be lent to
Mexico through cofinancing with the IMF and US$1.05 billion through
cofinancing with the Bank. Some US$1.4 billion of the total would be front
loated and is expected to become available around January 1990. It consists
of US$350 million in parallel financing with the IMF and US$150 million
through a commercial bridge operation; the remaining US$900 million would
finance eligible imports under the Bank's Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
(3085-ME), Public Enterprise Reform Loan (3086-ME) and Industrial Sector
Policy Loan (3086-ME) through cofinancing, in three equal components. All
cofinancing arrangements have been worked out in accordance with the Bank's
framework agreement with the Export-Import Bank of Japan, and a satisfactory
cross-default clause has already been introduced in the above three loans.
89. The Export-Import Bank would provide joint cofinancing, and the loans
would have a maturity of 17 years, including a five years grace period.
Japanese funds would be disbursed against 100% of the foreign exchange costs
of eligible imports to the private and public sectors. Eligible imports would
include goods in general, except for goods which are specified in a negative
list that has been adopted for the above mentioned three Bank adjustment
loans. Disbursement procedures would be the same as those agreed between the
Bank and the Government. Amounts disbursed by the Bank and the Export-Import



32
Bank of Japan against withdrawal applications would be on a pro rata basis.
The Bank would certify the disbursements under the cofinancing arrangements,
including all verifications of eligibility and compliance with agreed
procurement procedures.
90. These Export-Import Bank cofinancing agreements were signed on November
9, 1989. Arrangements have also been concluded between the Bank and the
Export-Import Bank of Japan, including co-lenders agreements for all three
adjustment loans. It is a condition of disbursement of the cofinancing loan
funds that the second tranche conditions of the three Bank adjustment loans
have been met.
G.   Nonitoring. Reporting and Auditing
91. Significant level of Bank resources would be provided to facilitate
Mexico's debt reduction package, following the recommendations contained in
this report. As already pointed out, the Bank's exposure would, as a result,
rise rapidly over the next three years. Any deterioration in Mexico's
creditworthiness may, therefore, have a measurable impact on the Bank's
portfolio. Under these circumstances, it is essential that the Bank is
properly equipped to monitor Mexico's adjustment program and macroeconomic
performance. Reporting requirements and reviews agreed under the Bank's
adjustment loan portfolio and the proposed Interest Support Loan would go a
long way to assure that the Bank is informed about Mexico's performance at all
times, and has an opportunity to discuss with the Government any adverse
deArlopment and take those into account in the design of its lending program.
In addition, both the processing of adjustment loans currently under
preparation and the Bank's extensive economic and sector work will afford
opportunities for review of performance and additional policy measures.
92. No less than six Mexico adjustment operations are being implemented at
this time. The release of second tranche is expected to occur under these
loans shortly. The reviews by Bank staff associated with the release of the
second tranches cover the following areas: (a) the consistency of Mexico's
macroeconomic framework is with the adjustment program; (b) progress in
flexibilization of price adjustments in a manner consistent with the
objectives of the adjustment program; (c) adoption and implementation of
measures in respect of financial sector reforms, covering, inter alia, the
role and efficiency of financial intermediation institutions, prudential
regulations of financial institutions and brokerage houses, and the gradual
reduction of credit subsidies; (d) adoption and implementation of measures in
respect of the regulation, performance and supervision of parastatal
enterprises, their continued privatization and restricted fiscal funding; and
(e) the adoption and implementation of measures in respect of promotion of
direct foreign investments, acquisition of foreign technology and development
of technology, liberalization of the agriculture, steel, fertilizer,
automotive, microcomputer, petrochemical and pharmachemical sectors, including
adjustments in power, fertilizer and agriculture prices, improved anti-
dumping system and simplified administrative procedures for the operation of
enterprises in industry. These arrangements are comprehensive, and assure the
Bank that Mexico's performance in structural reforms and macroeconomic
management are broadly on target. Monitoring the implementation of measures



33
in these areas will also assist the Bank in adjusting the lending program and
resource transfers, according to the prevailing policy environment.
93. In the narrower context of the proposed Interest Support operation, the
Bank has reviewed the Government's Debt Reduction Plan and arrangements for
its implementation, which have been found satisfactory.
94. The Government agreed during negotiations that it would keep separate
records of payments made in respect of the collateral accounts, into which
Bank loan funds would be disbursed, have qualified auditors acceptable to the
Bank audit such records and submit audit reports to the Bank within six months
after the end of each year. The Bank has been informed during negotiations,
that the Borrower -- a well-equipped financial institution that is familiar
with Bank requirements -- will assist the Government in meeting these
obligations.
H.   Burden Sharing
95. Before the commercial financing package was announced, Mexico's gross
total required capital inflows were expected to amount to US$51.1 billion over
the period 1989-94. After th,e conclusion of the new agreement, total
financing requirements would be less for three reasons: Mexico's interest
payments would be reduced, its amortization payments to commercial banks would
be rescheduled and reduced, and new money would also be available. The total
reduction would amount to $22 billion over the 1989-94 period, given the
proportions among the three options chosen by the creditors (para. 45). The
commercial banks' contribution to the country's overall financing requirements
would, as a result of the subscriptions to the package, be about 42 percent of
the total over the 1989-1994 period (Table 8 below).
96. The remaining financing needs would be covered through direct foreign
investment (DFI), international financial institutions (IFI), and bilaterals.
The substantial level of foreign investment projec-ad above in Table 8 seems
feasible, given historical trends, plus taking into account the reforms that
the Government introduced concerning foreign investments in early 1989. These
reforms have already had a major impact. Actual DFI in 1989, at $2.9 billion,
already exceeds the levels projected as recently as 6 months ago and
applications received for 1990 also imply an additional $1 billion over
projected levels.  In addition. the debt package includes a $3.5 billion debt-
equity swap program involving L. stment projects that were not open to
foreign investment before and thus constitute additional investment. The
projections for the 1989-1994 period have been revised upwards by these
amounts. Together with the commercial banks, the private sector of Mexico's
creditor countries would thus shoulder implementation of the of the country's
external financing needs over the 1989-94 period.



34
Table.8       SHARING THE BURDEN OF MEXICO'S FINANCING NEEDS
Percentage of Mexico's   Increase in
Financing Needs met by   Net Exposure
various creditors           (US$ b)
89-91    92-94   89-94   89-94
I. Total Financing Needs
before the deal                    100.0   100.0   100.0    51.1
II. Reduction in Financing Needs       36.6    48.3    42.1    21.5
due to deal
a. Lower interest payments           11.0    16.3    13.6      6.9
b. Rescheduling of repay-
ments to Commercial Banks         20.3    30.1    24.9      _.7
c. New Money                          5.3     1.9      3.7      .9
III. Remaining Financing Needs         63.4    51.7    57.9    29.6
a. DFI                              35.2    51.6    42.9    21.9
b. IFI's                            12.0     0.7      6.7     3.4
IBRD                          9.4     9.6     9.5     4.9
IMF                           2.5    -8.2    -2.5    -1.3
IDB                          0.0    -0.7    -0.3    -0.2
c. Bilaterals                        8.6    -0.3     4.4      2.3
d. Others                            7.6    -0.4     3.8      2.0
97.  In this scenario, net exposure of the Bank not counting the additional
disbursements of US$950 million under the proposed interest support loan,
would go up by US$4.9 billion over the 1989-94 period. Inclusive of this loan
exposure would rise by US$5.85 billion.  These figures presume that, in
addition to continued policy reform, implementation of individual projects is
satisfactory and adequate disbursement mechanisms are in place. The Bank's
exposure as a percentage share of its total disbursed and outstanding world-
wide would increase rapidly from 8.1% at end FY89 to 11.1% by FY93. Assuming
annual lending of US$2 billion, Mexico's share in total exposure would drop
back to 10% by the late nineties. In addition to Bank lending, the expected
availability of the US$500 million oil contingency facility would increase the
robustness of the agreement. By doing so, it would also increase the
country's medium term creditworthiness and reduce the risks of the Bank on its
exposure in Mexico. Moreover, it would mitigate the risk that the Bank would
be called upon to provide additional funds if oil prices were to decline
unexpectedly. The Bank's additional exposure under this guarantee would be
the present value of a guarantee to be made later. If the full amount were
drawn, the present value would amount to not more than US$250 million.
98. The relative burdens of the IFIs may change, once the IDB makes use of
its recently increased lending authority and significantly increases its net



35
exposure in Mexico. As a short term lending institution, the Fund would, in
all likelihood, remain a net taker of resources over the 1989-94 period.
I.   Creditworthiness
99. Mexico's gross exterr;al public and private debt increased by nearly
US$11 billion during 1983-88, and net debt by about US$9 billion. The debt
service ratio increased from 47% of export of goods and non-factor services in
1982 to 61% in 1988, mainly due to large repayments of aroursd US$3.5 billion
of private sector debt and a decline in oil export prices. At the end of
1988, the Bank's share of Mexico's long-term debt was 8.2%, and its share of
Mexico's long-term debt service was 7.6%. Mexico's share in the Bank's total
exposure was 8.1% in 1989. This latter ratio is expected to rise somewhat
through the early 1990s, reaching a peak exposure slightly in excess of 11%,
due to the Bank's expanded assistance program, before declining to around 10%
by 1997. Mexico is considered creditworthy for Bank lending because of its
resource endowment and development potential, and its favorable medium-term
prospects for recovering sustainable growth and restoring a stable balance of
payment. The debt package will contribute significantly towards these goals.
But to achieve these goals, Mexico needs to keep appropriate macro economic
policies in place; to this the debt package will also contribute, because of
its direct effect on the burden of the external debt and, at least as
important, its indirect impact on domestic real interest rates.
J.   Benefits and Risks
100. The proposed interest support loan and related measures recommended to
the Executive Directors for approval would enable the Government to implement
its debt reduction plan. The debt reduction envisaged under the 1989-92
financing package would, in turn, make it possible for the Mexican economy to
recover sustainable economic growth while concluding the stabilization
program. As a result, one could expect the protracted deterioration in living
standards to be reversed as new jobs would be generated. Debt reduction would
also improve the fiscal situation, which would allow the Government to put
into place targeted and cost-effective social sector programs and to focus
more on environmental measures. Thus, the proposed Bank support would benefit
the Mexican economy as a whole and help improve the living conditions of those
who have been most affected by the social cost of adjustment and address the
remaining problems of structural poverty. In summary, the proposed release of
Bank funds is indispensable to the achievement of the Government's stated
economic development objectives, which the Bank fully supports.
101. Mexico's growth strategy is not without risks. Changes in the external
or domestic environment may compromise the Government strategy outlined above.
While the probability of these risks seems low at this time, they cannot be
ruled out.
102. Declining international oil prices, rising international interest rates,
a more pronounced protectionist trend in the trade policies of Mexico's major
trading partners could adversely affect the country's economy. Additional
measures and/or external finance may in that case be necessary to be able to
pursue the Government's growth objective. At current volumes of petroleum



36
exports, a US$1 drop in the price of oil causes a reduction of US$500 million
per year in Mexico's foreign exchange revenues. Therefore, a drop in oil
price from the expected 1989 average of US$15/bb to US$13/bb., would reduce
foreign exchange earnings by US$1 billion per year. A rise in international
interest rates of one percentage point would, even with debt service reduction
under the 1989-92 financing package, increase Mexico's external interest
payments by US$630 million per year. A combination of declining oil prices
and rising interest rates, plus growing restrictions on Mexican exports, could
seriously compromise Mexico's growth objectives. The EFF program of the IMF
therefore has a built-in contingency mechanism which would relax the targeted
reserve buildup and simultaneously tighten fiscal measures if interest rate or
oil price developments are unfavorable. In addition, the negotiated financing
package would be complemented with a US$500 million oil contingency facility
at a later date. Contingency arrangements would be effective in providing a
short-term breathing space, although to respond to a sustained worsening in
the external environment, the Government's policy package would have to be
redesigned.
103. There is an inherent risk that under domestic political pressure, the
Government may be forced to ease off on the adjustment effort and adopt
macroeconomic policies which may be inadequate. Additional policy measures
too might be delayed, if the external environment deteriorated significantly,
as discussed in the previous paragraph. Not the least, because any required
deeper fiscal adjustment, coupled with a shortage of foreign exchange, is
certain to erode the projected growth in aggregate output, which may be
politically unacceptable. However, the impressive track record and firm
commitment of the current Mexican Administration to stay the course suggest
that the probability of this risk -- namely, inadequate policy response to a
worser.ing external environment -- is low.
104. Ev3n though the risks of a major derailment of Mexico's adjustment
effort are low, th- bank must be in a position to deal with any deterioration
in the country's medium term prospects. The early warning system which has
already been built into the Bank's adjustment lending, including the
substantial second tranche conditionality, structured reviews and reporting
requirements, would provide timely signals of any worsening trend in the
country's economy and its external environment. Taking into account the risk
assessment in the paragraph above, the early signals and the robust
conditionality for any additional Bank lending provide a suitable framework
for monitoring Mexico's economic performance and making any adjustment in the
Bank's lending strategy, as necessary. Clearly, the Bank would have to
distinguish between external and domestic risks. Its response would be
designed to intensify the macroeconomic and adjustment policy dialogue, to
determine the severity of any external risk and to identify priority measures
to deal with its effects. The Bank would, under those circumstances, have a
central role among Mexico's external creditors in advising the Government to
draw up a remedial policy package, which should include the necessary elements
for access to additional external financing in the form and amount required.



37
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. Country Assistance Stratenv
105. After six years of falling per capita income and a protracted
stabilization and adjustment process, Mexico's overriding objective for the
current "sexenlo" is the restoration of sustainable growth to 5-6% p.a.. Past
experience has made it clear that without macroeconomic stability and access
to external financing, sustainable growth will remain out of reach; thus the
Government has given top priority to the consolidation of stabilization and a
resolution of the debt overhang problem. The stabilization program, has
already shown significant results: inflation declined from 159% in late 1987
to around 20% in 1989. Progress has also been made towards securing external
finance and dealing with the debt problem.
106.The resumption of growth is the key priority and the Government strongly
feels that growth should be private sector based, with the Government
providing a supporting role. Thus the Government intends to continue its
reform program towards a modern, rationalized incentive structure for the
private sector. This will reduce the need for government intervention,
improve private sector resource allocation and provide full support for
efficient private sector investment by foreigner and domestic entrepreneurs
alike. To eliminate the anti-agriculture bias in the incentive and trade
regime, the Government also intends to move ahead with policy adjustment in
agriculture, where reforms in the past have been lagging behind industry.
107. To allow the public sector to play a supportive role for private sector
based growth, the Mexican Administration is redirecting policy priorities
towards increased and more efficient infrastructure investment, poverty
alleviation and related programs and increasingly toward the long-neglected
problems of environment. Infrastructure investment will focus on the
rehabilitation and maintenance of existing infrastructure (power, water,
transportation, irrigation, etc.) so that inadequate service levels do not
become a bottleneck for the resumption of growth. The Government is committed
to equitable development and is emphasizing the social sectors, including
health, nutrition, and education. Increased growth will have to go together
with increasing living standards for the poorer segments in society, both in
its own right and to maintain the consensus underlying the Government's
program. To this end the Government has placed in center stage the objectives
of reducing the social cost of adjustment and addressing the issues of
structural poverty. Finally, on the environment, the Government has launched
a major initiative in 1989 to tackle high priority environmental problems that
have been affecting increasingly the health and living conditions of the
country's people and its economic growth potential; these include air and
water pollution, deforestation and soil erosion.
108. In support of the Government's adjustment oriented framework, the Bank
has, in the past, transferred increasing amounts of resources to Mexico
through adjustment and investment lending. S.nce the 1986-87 commercial
financing package has been concluded, the Bank has become Mexico's largest
single source of new money. Six Bank loans in trade, exports, agriculture,
and industry were linked to that multi-facility financing scheme, providing



38
drawdown conditions for the parallel money and growth facilities which had
both disbursed fully in March 1988. The Bank also put up guarantees of US$750
million, and facilitated Mexico's efforts to issue securitized bonds for
retiring old debt in January 1988. In the period between 1985 and 1988, the
Bank's assistance strategy supported primarily policies designed to open the
economy and help rationalize public sector investment outlays.
109. Given the current Government strategy, which is comprehensive and
balanced, the Bank continues to have a major role to play. The proposed
assistance strategy is based on the highly successful partnership the Bank has
built up with the Government over the last few years. Over the medium term,
the Bank would -- through the comprehensive policy package it supports and
increased sector investment lending it undertakes -- give a signal that the
expected inflow of external capital will indeed trigger increased investment
necessary for growth. At the same time, adjustment lending and credit
enhancement by the Bank are helping relax Mexico's resource constraint that is
stifling growth, thus playing a major catalytic rol in the process of
breaking out of the macroeconomic and financial binca in which the country
finds itself. Over time, as the conditions for efficient growth have been
restored, lending would shift away from adjustment lending to growth-oriented
sector investment lending. That, and the robust conditionality envisaged,
provide the main rationale for the propQ.sed US$6.3 billion Bank lending over
the FY89-91 period.
110. In support of the Government's program to consolidate macroeconomic
stability and to restore growth, the Bank's strategy would pursue the
following objectives: (a) consolidation of the stabilization effort; (b)
support of incentives for efficiency/private sector led growth, including the
necessary infrastructure investments, particularly in transport, power,
agriculture and urban services; (c) poverty alleviation/improved social
services; (d) environmental protection; and (e) secure continued access to
external resources. The Bank's lending program is designed to achieve these
objectives over the medium term. As lending for adjustment would decline,
support for the recovery of growth, poverty alleviation and social sector
programs, and environmental protection, would be stepped up. Growth-oriented
lending would concentrate on basic infrastructure, including technology,
research and extension services. Sector investment programs would be
supported in irrigation, power, urban transport and urban development sectors.
111. The above outlined assistance strategy and sectoral objectives will be
implemented with the help of sustained high levels of Bank lending to Mexico
over the medium term, which would be maintained at US$2 billion per year. Such
high levels of new commitments would, of course, hinge on the maintenance of a
consistent macroeconomic environment and the depth and quality of Mexico's
further structural reforms. As 58% of the Bank's past lending to Mexico has
been in support of adjustment since 1986, including lending in FY87-89, it is
the Bank's intention to cut back on quick-disbursing adjustment operations
and, in a manner consistent with the requirements of the recovery of economic
growth, focus on sector investment operations which are designed to support
agreed investment programs in high priority sectors. To keep resource
transfers at adequate levels, the Bank and the Government are currently
reviewing the requirements of time slice financing, which would be an



39
essential feature of the sector investment operations. To help achieve the
stated objectives of the Bank's country assistance strategy, the policy
content of the proposed lending program, in more specific terms, would be
directed at: fiscal issues, financial sector efficiency, domestic
deregulation, trade and export development, subsidy control and pricing
issues, improved public sector and parastatal enterprise management,
decentralization and deconcentration of the public sector, social welfare and
poverty programs, and environmental measures. Proposed lending levels at US$2
billion per year, plus additional US$950 million of the FY90 interest support
loan, would increase the Bank's exposure by US$5.85 billion by 1994 and, for
the expected blend of quick disbursing and investment operations, increase
Mexico's share in the total of the Bank's disbursed and outstanding loans to
11.1% by FY93.
B.   Sectoral Composition of Bank Lending
112. As of September 30, 1989, Mexico had received 118 loans from the Bank,
amounting to US$13.7 billion, net of cancellations and terminations; of these,
79 loans, totalling US$5.9 billion, were fully disbursed and US$3.8 billion
remained undisbursed. The Bank's exposure was US$7.5 billion on a cash basis.
The sectoral composition and policy content of past lending, as well as the
design of major new lending operations are discussed below for key areas of
the Mexican economy in which the Bank has been active over the years.
Aericulture
113. Because of the crucial importance of agriculture for the one-third of
the country's population living in rural areas, some 27% of the Bank's past
lending has supported agricultural development, and nine operations are
currently under supervision. The Bank's lending program in agriculture is
aimed at: (a) helping correct the incentive regime in agriculture through
gradual reductions in input subsidies and export controls; (b) promoting more
efficient and rationale use of natural resources supported by improved
technologies and services; (c) generating employment-intensive investments in
rural areas and effective assistance to small farmers; and (d) creating an
integral framework for sound rural development. To support these goals, the
Bank made a US$300 million Agriculture Sector Loan in FY88, and, in FY90, has
made two loans, one for investments for agricultural marketing and storage
facilities, and the other for forestry development. Additional operations are
planned to support further policy adjustment in agriculture, rehabilitation of
the irrigation infrastructure, including improved cost recovery and
maintenance operations, and for food security poverty alleviation.
Trade
114. About 12% of past Bank lending has been for trade, and two loans remain
under supervision. Two trade policy loans of US$500 million each were made in
FY87 and FY88 in support of the Government's sweeping trade reforms. The two
operations supported the speedy reduction of non-tariff barriers (quotas and
official reference prices) and rationalization of the tariff system (reduced
levels and dispersion). The Bank supported the development of non-oil exports
through two export development operations in FY83 and FY87. These export



40
development loans were intended to strengthen the supply response by Mexican
industry to the new trade policy signals. A US$500 million Industrial Sector
Policy Loan in FY89 is supporting additional trade measures designed to
liberalize imports and rationalize the incentive regime in key subsectors.
Further trade reform measures are under consideration, which would strengthen
the temporary import regime, provide further support to indirect exporters,
assure automatic access to finance by exporters under the various credit
programs, streamline financial and administrative procedures, and seek further
reductions in export controls; the Bank is considering to support these new
initiatives.
-Industry and Finance
115. Some 28% of the Bank's lending has supported industry, and currently
eleven projects are under supervision. The Bank's lending strategy for
industry, covering small- and medium-scale industry, mining, the capital goods
industry, industrial restructuring and technology development, is designed to
support: (a) trade policy reform; (b) strengthening a competitive financial
sector, including the provision of resources for restructuring financial
intermediaries; and (c) industrial restructuring, regulatory reform,
clarification of foreign investment rules, and export promotion to assure a
vigorous supply response to trade liberalization and increased international
competitiveness. Recent Bank operations, including an US$500 million
Industrial Sector Policy Loan and an US$500 million Parastatal Enterprise
Reform Loan in FY89, provide support for policy reform in industry, for the
more efficient management and privatization of public enterprises,
restructuring of the fertilizer, steel, automotive parts, textile, and flower
sectors, and other key private industrial subsectors demonstrating a capacity
for undertaking integrated restructuring operations. Another adjustment
operation in FY89, the US$500 million Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, has
been providing support for the liberalization of the financial sector,
elimination of forced lending to the Government at subsidized rates,
increasing competition among banks and brokerage houses and improving
regulations in the banking sector.
Infrastructure
116. Lending for transportation, power and water accounts for 22% of the
Bank's total in Mexico, with 9 projects currently under supervision. Lending
for infrastructure is focussing on regional development, decentralization,
more efficient public investment allocation, and improved cost recovery.
Recent Bank loans supported the highway, railways and port sub-sectors.
Emphasis was placed on obtaining more realistic user fees and deferring all
but the highest-yielding investment projects so as to permit a minimum of
budgetary outlays for maintenance expenditures and protect the existing
capital stock. Proposed loans would support the Government's decentralization
initiatives, cost-based pricing, and managerial improvements. Loans are being
prepared to finance the upgrading, rehabilitation, and maintenance of roads at
the state level, the construction of toll roads cofinanced with the private
sector, the restructuring of several ports, water supply and sewerage, urban
transport, and power. Bank support is also under active consideration for
expanding service infrastructure, including low cost housing.



41
Housing and Others
117. The Bank has lent some 11% of its total for tourism, urban development,
housing and vocational training. Currently two housing loans are under
supervision. Government housing programs are designed to improve cost
recovery. A Second Housing Finance loan under execution is supporting
graduated loan cost recovery linked to the income of final borrowers, thus
ensuring a reduced drain on the budget. A follow up project focusing on low-
income beneficiaries has recently been approved.
Social Sectors and Environment
118. The Bank is assisting the Government in redesigning public health,
education, and human resource programs to make them more cost effective and
targeted to meet the needs of the poor. A proposed health project would
support decentralization measures, finance new primary health facilities, and
strengthen professional services. Similar initiatives are being pursued in
education and nutrition. A pilot project in execution is improving the well-
being of women in low-income areas. It includes the provision of piped water,
health and educational services, training for productive activities, and
credit for launching new microenterprises. These targeted operations would be
followed by broader programs, once the institutional conditions and capacity
for project implementation can support a larger Bank presence.
119. The Bank is also preparing an air pollution operation in the Federal
District, which would tackle urban transport related causes, and the Board has
approved an amencament of an ongoing urban transport operation to support
immediate relief measures requiring investments. With strong Government
commitment, the Bank would focus on the industry related causes of air
pollution in the Federal District, technical assistance for investment
evaluation and institutional strengthening in the environmental area,
strengthened environmental components in investment loans, and -- as soon as
the policy framework and suitable institutional arrangements are in place --
the Bank would consider loans for sector-wide environmental programs in
support of remaining policy issues.
C. IFC ODerations
120. The IFC has worked with the Bank to: (i) identify private sector
investment opportunities likely to thrive in the current climate of growth-
oriented adjustment and greater integration with the world economy; and
(ii) assist in strengthening the country's capital markets through economic
sector work and venture capital operations. As of September 30, 1989, the IFC
had invested US$1,059.0 million in 38 companies in Mexico, of which US$745.9
million had been sold, repaid, or cancelled.
PART VI - COLIABORATION UITH THE IMF
121. Bank/IMF collaboration has been close over the years, especially since
1982, when the Fund supported the Government to help address the underlying



42
causes of the economic crisis. Since that time the Government has benefited
from an extended arrangement for SDRs 3.4 billion, a special emergency drawing
for SDRs 291 million after the 1985 earthquake, a stand-by for SDRs 1.4
billion in 1986 and, in 1989, for an SDR 2.8 billion extended arrangement
through 1992 and a drawing of SDR 453 million under the compensatory facility.
Extensive consultations have taken place between Fund and Bank staff
concerning Mexico's economic situation and prospects, covering fiscal,
monetary, financial and exchange and interest rate policies.
122. Since the approval by the Fund's Board of the current extended
arrangement on May 26, 1989, consultations have continued between the two
institutions to monitor macroeconomic performance, adjustment measures and
further structural reforms in light of the requirements of the objectives of
the Government's agreed growth oriented program. To date the Mexican
Government has purchased under the extended arrangement an amount equivalent
to SDR 489.5 million, based on economic performance until September 1989 --
which is according to schedule. A Fund misFion has recently visited Mexico
City to conduct a review of developments -n late 1989 and policy intentions
and prospects for 1990.
123. IMF financial contributions to Mexico's debt reduction program would be
made under the SDR2.8 billion extended arrangement in the form of set asides
and through a proposed augmentation of the arrangement in an amount equivalent
to 40% of quota, which the Board has not yet approved. The release of set
asides for the enhancement of discount bonds and approval for the proposed
augmentation of resources are dependent on an adequate financing package and
understanding with the Government on key policies for 1990. Set asides and
interest support under the extended arrangement and resources to be made
available from the augmentation of the arrangement would amount to a total of
SDR 1.3 billion, which is roughly equivalent to US$1.7 billion. Of this total
amount, US$1.24 billion is expected to be released in early 1990, assuming
that the recent review mission's findings will be positive, and the Board
approves the augmentation and the acceleration of the set asides which would
be available during the course of 1990. Thus, the IMF too would front load
all set asides from 1990 under the extended arrangement. The equivalent of
some US$454 million would be available early in 1991 and 1992, after the
scheduled regular consultations have taken place. Together with other
resources available after January 1990, this component of the Fund's credit
enhancement would be funded from a commercial bank bridge loan.
PART VII - SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS
124. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
Interest Support Loan on the terms and conditions proposed (paras. 75-80 and
91-94), as well as the following additional specific measures presented in
this report:
(a) Release of the set asides in an amount of US$375 million provided
for in the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (3085-ME), Public



43
Enterprise Reform Loan (3087-ME) and the Industrial Sector Policy
Loan (3087-ME) (paras. 64-66);
(b) Amend the Fertilizer Sector Loan (2919-ME), Agriculture Sector Loan
(2918-ME) and the Steel Sector Adjustment Loan (2916-ME) to provide
for set asides in the amount of US$150 million, US$175 million and
US$50 million, respectively, and release the funds upon
effectiveness of the amendments (paras. 67-70);
(c) Consent to a request by the Government for waiver of the negative
pledge restriction in the Bank's loan and guarantee agreements with
Mexico up to US$7.5 billion on the basis of a written commitment
that such consent would be limited to the 1989-92 financing package
and not affect the Bank's general position on the negative pledge
restriction, and that the Government would continue to service all
Bank loans in a timely mannet (para. 82); and
(d) Restructure the Bank's guarantees of US$750 million under "Facility
2" and "Facility 3" of the 1987 Multi-Facility Agreement (para.
84).
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
January 18, 1990
Washington, D.C.



MEXICO
INTEREST SUPPORT LOAN                                                                       Table I
BASIC MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
1960-60 1940-70 1971-76 1977482   1940   1945   1970   1976   1940   1941    1942   1963   194    19066   1966  1967  10616 PI
Sf......... .............                   1.   7.01;   7.41    6.61i   0.11S   6.5'   691    4.21    6.31    0.61    -0.61   -4 21   3.61   2.61  -3.61    A5 Sit   it
M0Pdefl ot4.. ............... 801    3.51   15.31   29091   401    2.31   1001   196    26.71   26.019   6001%  90.51   59.11   W IS  74.31l 13939  1038as
Inflation Raet (Dcsr/Dcer) .....461   27.21  29.811  20 71    ". 61   60.8 61   .29  63 71  105.7 ?150S.210  61.61
GOPper capia............... 251s   3.51    S.i    3.71                   311    a 301    3.11    1.2    5.49    S.11    -3.11   -7 61    0.69   -0.11   -1.41   0. 41  -0.91
Cwwonsimtoe por ceplto ....... 6..         .31    6.211   R."    3.81    1.011   1.21    1.49   1 71   4 91   4,S 61   1.41   9.11   0.29  ..0 61  .7.71   -. 091  42.29
Real l"e,.triel Wes............ 1.31   A.11t   4.01   -1. 11    1.71    6.01   0.61  10.611  .4.41    1.29             1.91  426.01    2.91    1.61  -10.219  -451  ..0.01
194t.5Vifl65(e. S of 00P)i
Total leweastont ........6....I.2   19.    21.9   25.2   16.0   20.5   22.6   22 3   27.2   27.4    22.9   20.6   19.0   21.9   16.4   16. 6   20.3
Rati...l Sevin" ..........               14.1   17.3   16.6   21.3   13.4   16.5   19.6   16. 5   22.7   21.9    19.3   24.4   22.3   22.6   17.2   21.4   1*.?
Sa'Curreet AccounOt...........         -2.1   -2.1   -6.    -3.9   -2.6   -2.0   -3.0   -3.8   -4,5   -5.5a   -6.6    3.6    2.4    0 7   -1 3    2 6   -1.6
C.wrra, Accos46 .............(151)  (479) (2.304) (6,436)  (324)  (403) (1.068) (3,409) (6.737)(13,646)  (6,220) 5.4tS  4.269   1.23? (1.673) 8.947  (2.001)
fEpwoet of Good. A Non Pect. servicee ..   966  1.064  6.080  16,692   1.372   1.909   2.745  6.641  22.902 20.067  26.167 27.179  30.133 27.609  21,065  27.614 29.075
NM" Intere.tion.l RAeerve  (.e, Varied)    379    591   1.251  2.169    4690   575    020    741  4.004  5,035         395  5.67  65.767  6.051  2.924  9.933   1.773
ReErNal 5.4crA lndiC*t*r* (Percent):
fisporte Sf5 rool gyeth raet.. ..8..       .7    5.2    7.9    9.9    1.2    3.8   56.0   16.6    6.2   11.5    21.7   13.            5,7   -4.5    5.2    9.6    2.0
oil EaPorte root soroth Pete .... . . ..                25.3   49.9      .        .      .      .. 71..6   29.5    31 3    5.6    1.1   -5.6   -9.4   -0.5    6       2
Noui-OI Eaporte real Growth re*........                  0.8    2.5      .        .      .      .. -1.6    9.2   -16.2   37.9   23.5   -4.6   60.5   31.9  -12.0
Eapoete onS noinal yoetlu rate   .       9.7    0.2   161.0,  27.4    30.   10. 7    0.0   12.7   66.4   26.6    -9.9    3.9   10.9   -8.4  -20.6   26.2    5.3
Expowte of 04PS/Currset Sf  ...... .    18.4    9.3    6.0   12.3   11.4    7.6    6.S    7.1I   10.7.  10.4    AS 3   19.0   17.4   1S54    17.5   19.6   16.
Smpts Sf1S reel oraosvto rt. ...... 4.4    5.7    9.4    9.6    2.9    3.6   10.1    1.0   31.6   17.6   -37.9  -33.7   17.6   11.0  -12.4    4.5   54,6
Iwmptor Sf5 noelsel groth rota .....11.6    6.5   19.6   21.0   15.3    4.7   21.1A  -0.0   58.2   30.2   -40.6  -36. 1   26.0   13.6  -11. 7    5.?   48.2
Import. of OICawrpst, GDP...... .       16s.6   11.      9.5   13.0   13.9    9.6    9.0    9.5   13.    12.9    10.3    9.4    9.6   10.5   12.5   12.2   14.2
Rsemurc* Slasince/Curret, MP .. .....-1.2   -2.1   -1.8    0.3   -2.5   -1.6   -2.8   -2.2   -2.3   -2.8               5.0    9.6    7.6    4.9    4.7    7.4    2.6
Term of Teed. In~des (190 a 100).....96.7   66.6   63.5  104.9   66.7   64.1   69.4   75.3  100.0   97.4    64.6   77.4   76.1   72.0   51.4   57 5   66.2
Real Umetuan Rate Waee (19600.100) tlq/ 115.3  196.5  106.2  111.3  113.9  10.6.  104.6  106,3  100.0   90.7,   134.3  137.1  114.0  111,7  145.9%  151.4  122.4
Foreign Debt Indicator. :  D
Toute CU (mllo U1         .......... W.3.514  11,240 56.126              .   2.212  4.958 22,177  57,378  70.218   66.019  92.964 44.M   96,675100.676 109.292 100,2901
PeblIc DOD...............                    2,296   7,846  51,661     ..   ,48   2.166  17,634 60.160  60.006   76.011  70.2S57  76.612 01,130 GS.951 93.734  92.m4
Po-Ivo"e 001 d.............                  1,216  3.694 23.667       ..     764  2.770  4.543   7.300  10,200   6.100  14.600  16.296  15,745  15.105  14.146  7,456
Total O00/Eapowte Sf5 (1) ........             146.8  211.1  611LS        .   111.2  160.5  524.2  260.5  269.3   326.7  342.0  314.7  350.9  461.   695.6  348.0
Total 060/Cwrr.t CDP M1).15......               2.0   16.4   37, 0        ..    0.2   12.9   25.3   29.5   31.3    50.4   62.8   54.0   56.1    7 7.6   77.4   56.6
Debt eerlce OL6T (141111cm 16) PI .663.          S    1.278  S.32 in            466    691  2,230  7.690  6.632    9,410  11.422  11.275  10.572  6.620  6.7136  9.641
Dseb oeervle 16LT/Carrent WPMo) e....2.1    1.9    5.2                   ..     2.1    1.6    2.8    4.1      3.4      5.5    7.7    6.4    5.6    6.6    6.2    5.5
Debt e*"a*a 16.T/Eporwt. Sf5S CB) of ..24.0   24.9   45.0                ., 24.5   25.2   32.6   34.5   29.4    36.0   42.0   57.4   36.3   39.4   31.6   31.2
Istereat OLT7 R14111. 1   6U) o /......133    55O  3,669                 ..      7    210  1,063  8.660  4.801    6.1S9  S.594   7.360  7,316  0,376  6,202  8.584
Ie,ter.e HU./Sknort Of5 (11) PI.....85.    10.2   19.8                   .      4.4    7,9   15.6   16.9   16.6    23.6   24.3   24.6   27.2   26.2   22.0   22.8
lstereet OLT/Curromi, UW (1) */ .....0.5    0.6    2.4                   ..    0.4    G,6    1.1    2.0    1.0         3.6    4.4    4.2    4.1    4.8    4.6    5,7
Pae Sgi 9 an UP............ -0.7   49.0   -6.9  -10.0   -2.7   -0.9I   -$.5   -9.2   -7.0  -13.7   -15,9   48.2    -.6.   -9.6  -10.0  -16.1  -12.0
Prl..r ftleoca, (*S le UfCP) ...........                                 .      0.0   -3.4   -4.6   -2.5   -7.6    -6.4    4.6    5.5    4.4    2.1    6.0    6.4
WSaation M1..t.d esale.. (*O 9. ofUP)    ..       .       .       .       . -.1   -3.6   -0.5   -5.0  -11.2   -10.9   -5.1A  -0.6   -4.5   -6. 1    0.4   -4.2
WIMUP (sal o C . .....UP)....              18.0   22.7   29.1   27.90   16.6   21.6   30.7   26.5   21.5   27.0    20.7   27.0   27.0   27.0   29,4   27.0   27.0
Hmeeltary 9ee (growth -ato)........10.7   14.6   31.9   55.1I    1.0   12.2   10. 7   29.6   41.2   45.1    90.4   09.1   54 1   17.5   47.7t   70.6   42.3
ef. rt refera to 1065-70.
6/. As eseewrd by relative ebolesale price endesse.
e/. An Iseraaee la the loadoe. sie reel depreciatio..
/.Private Is-oreed
I/  t lacladee only Eatteruie P.611. 0A.6



45
MEXICOTal2
INTEPEST SUPPORT LOAN                                Table 2
KLEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS (US$ BILLION)
(Assuming 46/38/16 Mix)
Actual                             Projected
-------------~~~~~~~~-- -- - -- - -- - --                                    - --  - -- - -- -
1"S  198o  ~19S7 19s P/ 1909 */  1990   19nl    19    tens   1994
GDP                                    2.7    -4.0    1.4    1.1    2.7    8.6         8.8    4.4    S.6    S.-
GDP/CapIt* Groeth Rate                -0.1    -1.4    0.4   -0.9    6.7    1.6    1.8    2.4    2.9    2.9
Consumptlon/Capita Growth Rate        -0.8    -7.7   -0.9    2.2    1.8   -1.6    6.6   -0.4    8.6    8.8
Total DOD (US$, Bill)                98?6   16176  169292  166298  99854  9441S  98068  98848  96997  95656
DOD/XG&NFS                           856.9   461.1  895.s  845.0  298.2  255.8  286.1  214.8  198.8  174.1
DOD/GDP                               58.1    77.6   77.4   56.8   49.6   45.4   44.7   41.8   87.7   84.2
Debt Service (USS, et If)            152s2    12966  12182  166e4  14494  12809  124"0  12201  12010  1264s
D-bt Servic*/XGANFS                   55.4    59.2   44.1   58.5   48.5   84.e   80.5   27.1   24.2   22.1
Debt S-rvic*/GDP                       8.4    16. 6 0.5    8.6    7.2    6.2    5.8    6.2    4.7    4.3
Interest/XGUNFS                       86.8    88.1   29.8   86.9   29.8   22.1   1s.a   17.6   16.8   14.7
Interast/00P                           6.1      6.4    5.7    5.1    4.9    8.9    8.7    8.4    3.2    2.9
Gross Investment/GDP                  21.9   l.5   18.6   20.8   21.2   22.6   28.4   25.4   25.6   24.9
Change of Stocks                       2.7      0.9    0.2    1.8    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2
Privat.                             1.7      0.8   -0.2    1.8    6.6    6.6    6.6    6.6    0.6    6.6
Public                              1.0      0.1   -0.2    6.5    6.6    6.6    0.6    6.6    6.8    6.6
Fixed Capital Formation               19.2    17.6   18.9   18.5   20.6   21.8   22.2   24.2   24.8   23.7
Private/CDP                        13.2    11.6   18.4   14.1   16.8   16.8   17.8   18.9   18.5   17.7
Public/GOP                          6.6      6.6    5.5    4.4    4.2    4.5    4.9    5.8    5.8    6.6
Notional Savings/GDP                  22.6    17.2   21.4   18.7   16.6   21.6   22.2   24.4   24.5   24.1
Gro*s Private Savings              19.5    16.6   18.6   18.2   16.4   17.2   15.8   16.9   16.8   16.6
Gross Public Snvings                8.1      1.2    7.9    0.5    2.5    4.4    6.9    7.6    8.2    6.1
Gros Domestic Savings                 26.8    28.8   26.0   22.6   22.6   24.2   25.0   27.0   26.9   26.8
Exports of CAMFS Real Growth Rates    -4.1      8.2    9.6    2.6    5.1    5.7    6.7    5.9    6.6    6.6
Non-Oil Eipart of CAMPS Growth Rates  -2.2      1.6   12.5    8.8    8.6        7.4    7.8    7.4    7.4    7.4
Exports/GOP                           15.4    17.8   19.6   1e.6   16.6   17.8   19.0   19.8   19.6   19.6
Imports of G NFS Reol Growth Rates    11.0   -12.4    4.5   84.6   15.9    4.9    6.9    6.8  e.6    6.4
Imports/GDP                           16.5    12.6   12.2   14.2   15.2   16.1   17.4   17.8   18.0   16.2
Current Account (USS, Sill)           1287   -1678    8s96   -2901  -4626   -1794  -2476  -2458  -2440  -2885
Current Account/GOP                    6.7    -1.8    2.6   -1.6   -2.8   -0.9   -1.2   -1.1   -1.6   -06.
Resource Balance/GP                    4.9      4.8    7.4    2.8    1.4    1.7    1.6    1.5    1.5    1.4
Terms of Trade (1985166)              -1.2   -86.9   14.1  -16.        8.8   -0.0   -0.0   -0.0   -0.0   -0.0
Primary Balance/GDP 1/                 5.6      8.4    4.9    5.8    7.4    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.6
Operational Balance/GOP 1/            -8.9    -4.9    2.5   -4.4   -2.8   -O.7         1.4    1.6      1.8    1.6
Memorandum Item
Oil price (USS per barrel)            25.4    11.9   16.2   12.2   15.0   16.6   16.5   17.1   17.6   16.5
1/ In addition, the government expecto to raie. 0.4X of GP in 1989 through assets sals.
Sourco: Mexican Authorities and Bank staff *stimates



46
MEXICO
INTEREST SUPPORT LOAN                                   Table 3
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ BILLION)
(Assuming 46/38/16 Mix)
1986     1986    1987 1988 p/  1089 *1   1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
A. Exports of goods A NFS              276"9    21897    27014   29W75   88323   a6982   40859   44964   49631   64603
1. Merchandise                         21664    16031   20656   20658   23869   26967   26496   81166   34120   37393
Oil                               14767     6397    6630    6709    7829    6220    8S90    8934    9291   9063
Non-;l I                           697      9724   12026   13949   15730   17747   19995   22231   24829   27730
2. Non-F&ctor Services                  6945     5844    6958    8417    9764   11016   12366   13799   16411   17212
In-Bond Industries                 1268     1295    1598    2326    3140    3542    8973    4437    4956    5536
8. Imports of Coods A NFS              18476    16812   17234   26024   80441   83t23  $8461   41386   46822  5070e
1. Morchandise                         18212    11432   12223   10903   22996   26324   28291   81263   34616   38304
2. Non-Factor Services                  5263     480    501l    4120    7446    8199    9160   10122   11207   12402
C. Resource Balance                     9134     6683   10380    4061    2882    3469    8400   3878    3709    3699
0. Not Factor Income                   -8s96    -7701   -7062   -7568   -8166   -5933   -6688   -6776   -6917   -7032
1. Factor Receiptx                      2188    1815    2288    2758    2738    8401    2611    2706    2759    2801
Other Interost                       446      349     6ee    1032    e06      1461     713     774     784      780
Interesto Retained Abroad           1876     1114    1208    1280    1596    1428    1388    1331    1331    1331
Workers Remittances                  314      852     400     446      482     521     s61     601      644     690
2. Factor Payments                     11034     9516    9350   10326   10893    9333    9199    9481    9676   98a3
Interest Payments                le15      8342    8097    8980    9763    8164    7891    8ole   8e5s    8038
Remitted Dividends                  98e      886     413     519      427     489     602     676     647      727
Reinvested Dividends                232      587     461     664      427     439     502     576     847      727
Other                               260      252     359     263     278      290     803    a31      328     341
3. Not Transfers                        1002      466     649     616      647     679     710     738     768      798
E. Current Account Balance              1237   -1678    3966   -2901   -4626   -1794   -2478   -2458   -2440   -2335
F. Long-Term Capital Inflow              261     1118    4472    -693    3483    5656    5081    4049    3772    as36
1. Direct Investment                     491     1623    3248    2596    2927    3164    3441    3759    4118    4514
-. New Foreign Investment            270      944    2911    2410    2560    2714    2939    3184    3471    3786
b Reinvestments                      232      687     481     664     427      439     S02     675     647      727
C: Other                             -10       -8    -144    -379        0      -O      -9       0       -0       0
2. Net Lt loans                          204     1622    4033    -494      665    2702    1640     290    -34e    -947
a. Disbursements                    6326     6331    7915    6311    5287    7347    6209    4474    3610    3063
of which; financing gap              0        0       0       0       -0    1169     885     149     16O    -400
b. Repayments                       5122     4709    8882    6805    4731    4646    4569    4186    3966    4010
3. Other Items (Net)                    -434    -1999   -2809   -2694        0       0       a       0       0 O
C. Othor Items (Net)                   -8826     1612   -1614   -3633    1923  -8126   -1338   -1331   -1331   -1331
1. Not Short Term Capital              -1768      691   -6048   -2769    1700  -1700         0       0       0       0
2. Errors and Omissions                 -662     1936    4742     418    1819        0       0       0        0       0
3. Other Capital                       -1376    -1114   -1208   -1280   -1696   -1428   -1338   -1331   -1331   -1331
H. Change In Gross Reserves            -2328      986    6924   -7127      780     934    1265     269       0    -100
1. Use of IMF Credit                     1e0     1091    1103    -104     612       86      37    -578    -940    -447
2. Changes In Not Roserves             -2988     -106    6821   -7023      168     898    1228     837      940     347
Shares of COP (current USS)
___________________________
1. Resource Salance                      4.9      4.8     7.4     2.3      1.4     1.7     1.6     1.6     1.6      1.4
2. Totel Interest Payments               6.1      6.4     6.7     6.1      4.9     3.9     8.7     3.4     3.2      2.9
8. Current Account Balance               0.7     -1.3     2.8    -1.6    -2.3    -0.9    -1.2    -1.1    -1.0   -0.8
4. Lt Capital Inflow                     0.1      1.2     2.8    -0.3      0.8     1.3     0.8     0.1    -01    -0.3
5. Not Credit from the IMF               0.3      0.8     0.8   -0.1      0.8      0.0     0.0    -0.2   -0.4   -0.2
Memorandum Item
GOP (Millions of USS)                 182347   129801  143128  176700  200573  207793  214662  233072  264614  2?1930
Foroign Exchange Reserves
1. Net International Reserves           8061     2924    9933    1773    1941    2839    4067    4904    5844    6191
2. Gross International Reserves         6020     6984   16096    6562    7342    8276    9541    9800    9800    9700
3. Gross Reserves in Months Imports      1.9      2.7     4.9     2.0      2.0     2.1     2.8     2.2      2.0     1.8
Exchange Rates
1. Nominal Officiat X-Rate             267.0      611    1366    2260    2433    2797    8232    3674    3962   4370
2. Real Effective X-Rete Base 1980       112      146     151     122   116.3  122.1  128.2  126.2  128.2  128.2
--------_--------------------------------------------------------__----------__-----------------------------------------



47
MEXICO
INTEREST SUPPORT LOAN                                     Table 4
PROJECTED FOREIGN EXCHANGE REQUIREMENTS (US$ BILLION)
(Assuming 46/38/16 Mix)
1966-66  1989-90 1991-94  1989-94
Crose Disbursements
Multi letera                                    5,429   8,788   6,850  12,18S
of which: IORD                               4,479   8,84U   7, 176  10,516
;I st.*-rI                                      5,637  4,02    5,6se    9,6126
Private                                        16,859   2,664      99   8,583
IMF Puroebx                                     2,488   2,682   1,515   4,190
Finanelng CGap                                          1,159     708   1,953
Total                                     81,998  14,885  17,867  31,091
Net Diebureements
Multilateral                                    2,893   1,765   2,946   4,698
of which: IBRD                               2,460   1,766   s,069   4,867
Bi lIteral 1/                                   8,060   1,640   1,806   8,446
Privyt*                                         2,426  (1,042) (1,794) (8,786)
IMF Purhease                                    1,740     646  (1,926) (1,286)
Financnrg Cap                                       a   1,159     793   1,953
Totel                                     10,061   8,259   1,821   6,079
Mexico: Debt Service Assumptions
Principal Repyments                                   1989-6W 1991-94  1989-94
Multilateral                                            2,080   5,406   7,438
of which: IBRD                                       1,572   4,086   5,658
Bilateral: Scheduled                                    2,806   8,995   0,381
Projected                                    2,886   5,179   7,565
Private: Scheduled                                      2,920   2,169   5,986
Projected                                      4,626   2,693   7,819
IMF: Scheduled                                          2,034   2,761   4,786
Projectod                                          2,034   8,448   5,477
Financing Cap: Schoduled                                    0       0        O
Projected                                    0       9       0
Total: Scheduled                                        9,876  14,811  23,687
Projected                                       11,078  10,729  27,798
Intorest Poyments
_________________
Multilateral                                            1,786   4,548   6,836
of which: IBRD                                       1,290   8,694   4,984
Bilateral                                               1,844   8,641   5,484
Private                                                12,197  18,189  80,387
IMF                                                       757   1,289   2,017
Financing Cap                                              54     718      772
Total                                                  17,926  82,000  49,928
Key Ratios
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
Interst/XCS                                      82.8    29.4    2 .1    19.7    1.2    16.6    15.0
DOD/XCS                                         815.1   276.5   283.8   221.0   292.1   168.6   165.6
Net Dltbuemente/Interest                         -5.5     5.7    88.1    20.8      8.0    -4.8   -11.8
Net Tromtfera/CDP                                -6.4    -4.6    -2.6    -2.9    -8.8    -8.8    -8.2
.     e        n- - - ---------- - ---------------- - - --                                   - - -----------------
Source: Mlxtein Authorities and Bank staff estimates



48
MEXICO
INTEREST SUPPORT LOAN
SOURCES AND NEEDS OF FOREIGN EXCH.ANGE (US$ BILLION)                         Table 5
(Assuming 46/38/16 Mix)
1989-91
Needs                                      Sources
Current Account Deficit       8.9          Direct Foreign Invest..      9.S
of which: Interest Paym.   25.8           Multilaterals  (not)         8.2
Other Capital                 2.6            of which: IBRD             2.8
Gross Reserves                a.0          Bilaterals (net)              2.8
Amort. Commercial Banks       0.4          Commorc. Banks/new money    1.4
Other Creditors (net)         4.1                                       -----
Total Identified Inflows   18.5
Finsncing Cap                2.1
Total                        18.8          Totsl                        16.8
1992-94
Needs                                      Sources
Current Account Deficit       7.2          Direct Foreign Investm.    12.4
of which: Interost Paym.   24.1           Multilaterals (net)          0.2
other Capital                 4.0            of which: IBRD              2.3
Cross Reserves                0.2          Bilaterals (net)             -0.1
Amort. Commercial Banks       0.6          Commerc. Banks/new money    0.4
Other Creditors (net)         1.5                                       -
Total Identified Inflows   12.9
Financing Cap               -0.1
Total                        12.9          Total                        12.9
1989-94
Needs                                      Sources
Current Account Deficit      16.1          Direct Foreign Investm.    21.9
of which: Interest Paym.   49.9           Multilaterals (net)          8.4
Other Capital                 6.6            of which: IBRD             4.9
Gross Reserves                3.1          Bilateral* (net)              2.8
Amort. Commercial Banks       0.0          Commere. Banks/new money    1.9
Other Creditors (net)         6.8                                       -----
Total Identified Inflows   29.5
Financing Cap                2.0
Total                        31.4          Total                        31.4
1/ Note: Other Capital is the bookkeeping counterpart to the current
account Item: Interest Retain.ed Abroad.
Source: Bank staff estimates.



49
MEXICO                                                         Table 6
INTEREST SUPPORT LOAN
SOURCES AND NEEDS OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE (US$ BILLION)
(Prior to the Debt Package)
-------___-----_--------------__--_---________---------------__-__-------
19809-91
Nlods                                     Sources
Current Account DOficit    11.9           Direct Forelgn Invostm.     9.6
of which: Interest Paym.   26.0          Multi lstrols (not)         8.2
Other Copitol                2.6            of which: IBRD            2.6
Cross Reervoo                S.6 O          laterals (net)            2.3
Amort. Comercial Banks       6.6                                     -----
O.hor Creditors (not)        4.1          Total Identifled Inflows   15.1
Financing Gap              12.0
Total                       27.0          Total                      27.0
1992-94
Neodu                                     Sources
Current Account Deficit     11.2          Diroct Foreign Invest..   12.4
of which: Interest P*y..   26 1          Multilateral. (not)         0.2
Other Capital                4.0            of which: IBRD            2.3
Cross Reserves               0.2          silateraol  (net)          -0.1
Amort. Conmmrcial Banks      1.2
Other Creditors (net)        1.6          Total tdentifld Inflows   12.6
Financing Cap              11.6
Total                       24.0          Total                      24.0
1989-94
Noeds                                     Sources
Current Account Deficit     23.1          Direct Foreign Investm.    21.9
of which: Interest Pays.   56.1          Multiloterols (not)         3.4
Other Capital                6.6            of which: IBRO            4.9
Gross Reserves                3.1         Bilateral* (not)            2.3
Amort. Commercial Banks     12.7                                     -----
Other Croditors (net)       65.           Total Identifiod Inflows   27.6
Financing Cap              23.6
Total                       61.1          Total                      51.1
1/ Note: Other Capital is tho bookkoeping counterpart to the current
account item: Interest R-tained Abroad.
Source: Bank staff e*timatee.



50
ANNEX I
Interest Support Loan
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken by the Country to prepare program:  7 months
(b)   Program prepared by:  Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit
(c)   First Presentation to Bank:  end-April 1989
(d)   Departure of Appraisal Mission:  n/a
(e)   Completion of negotiation:  January 1990
(f)   Planned Date of Effectiveness:  February 1990
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
The following have been established as conditions of effectiveness:
(a)   Submission of satisfactory contractual agreements for relending
loan funds to the Government (para. 81);
(b)   The Government shall have concluded agreements for the exchange of
debt aggregating at least US$40.5 billion and for new money loans
aggregating at least US$5 billion (para. 45); and
(c)   Confirming to the Bank availability of the required enhancement
funds (para. 44).
It has been established that no withdrawals would be made from the loan
account unless:
(a)   The Bank shall have approved the procedures for withdrawals and
for the provision of legal opinions satisfactory to the Bank of
counsel acceptable to the Bank on the exchange and collateral
agreements;
(b)   The Bank is satisfied with arrangempnts for the maintenance of Ilw
collateral; and
(c)   Unless the Bank otherwise agrees, the set asides to be providel l v
the Bank are being disbursed concurrently.



