Page  1
                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                    LOAN NUMBER 3159-ME
                    Loan Agreement
                (Interest Support Loan)
                        between
         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT
                          and
      BANCO NACIONAL DE COMERCIO EXTERIOR, S.N.C.
                Dated February 4, 1990
                                    LOAN NUMBER 3159 ME
                    LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated February 4, 1990, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank) and BANCO NACIONAL DE COMERCIO EXTERIOR,
S.N.C. (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) the international banking community has
responded favorably to the request dated September 15,
1989 of the United Mexican States (the Guarantor) for
participation in a debt relief and new financing package
designed to support the Guarantor's medium-term
growth-oriented economic program and the Guarantor has
requested the assistance of the Bank, as part of such
package, in financing the provision of collateral to
secure interest payments on bonds to be issued in
exchange for existing debt;
     (B)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the
Bank has decided to provide such assistance to the
Guarantor by making the loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; and
Page  2
     (C)  by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreements of
even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank,
the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake all
other obligations set forth in the Guarantee Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                       ARTICLE I
            General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Collateral" means collateral to be pledged by
the Guarantor in connection with the Exchange (as
hereinafter defined) to secure interest payments on the
Eligible Bonds (as hereinafter defined) in accordance
with agreements entered into pursuant to the Financing
Package (as hereinafter defined), and partially financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan;
     (b)  "Exchange" means the exchange of any or all
Eligible Debt (as hereinafter defined) of Participation
Landers (as hereinafter defined) for new debt evidenced
by, inter alia, Eligible Bonds (as hereinafter defined)
to be implemented in accordance with agreements entered
into pursuant to the Financing Package (as hereinafter
defined);
     (c)  "Eligible Debt" means any or all of the
Guarantor's public sector medium-term debt owed to
commercial banks and other financial institutions, and
eligible for Exchange under the Financing Package (as
hereinafter defined);
     (d)  "Participating Lenders" means commercial banks
and other financial institutions with Eligible Debt that
elect to partial pate in the Financing Package (as
hereinafter defined);
     (e)  "Financing Package" means the 1989-92 Financing
Package dated September 15, 1989 proposed by the
Guarantor to commercial banks and other financial
institutions with Eligible Debt for participation in debt
relief and new financing required by the Guarantor to
support its medium-term growth-oriented economic program
during Fiscal Years 1989 through 1992;
     (f)  "Eligible Bonds" means Discount Bonds or Par
Bonds or both to be issued by the Guarantor as part of
the Exchange;
     (g)  "Discount Bonds" means Collateralized Floating
Rate Bonds Due 2019 as described in the Financing Package
in a principal amount equal to 65% of the principal
amount of the Eligible Debt to be exchanged for such
Bonds;
Page  3
     (h)  "Par Bonds" means Collateralized Fixed Rate
Bonds Due 2019 as described in the Financing Package in
a principal amount equal to 100% of the principal
amount of the Eligible Debt to be exchanged for such
Bonds;
     (i)  "Collateral Accounts" means the several
Interest Collateral Accounts in which the Collateral
for the Eligible Bonds is to be deposited in accordance
with agreements (hereinafter the "Collateral Pledge
Agreements") made by the Guarantor in favor of the
collateral agent (hereinafter the "Collateral Agent")
pursuant to the Financing Package;
     (j)  "Set-aside Funds" means funds allocated under
the loan agreements for each of the following loans in
order to assist the Guarantor in implementing Debt
Reduction Plans as defined in such agreements and
pursuant to implementation agreements for each of such
loans: Loan No. 2916-ME (Steel Sector Restructuring
Project); Loan No. 2918-ME (Agricultural Sector Loan);
Loan No. 2919-ME (Fertilizer Sector Loan); Loan No.
3085-ME (Financial Sector Adjustment Loan); Loan No.
3086-ME (Public Enterprises Reform Project); and Loan
No. 3087-ME (Industry Sector Policy Loan);
     (k)  "Exchange Date" means the date on which the
Exchange takes place; and
     (l)  "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the
Guarantor
beginning on January 1 of each year.
                      ARTICLE II
                       The Loan
     Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of one billion two hundred and sixty million
dollars ($1,260,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals
of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be May 31,
1990 or such later date as the Bank shall establish.
The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the
Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank
a commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount
of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05.  (a)  The Borrower shall pay
interest on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On
each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on
the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable
during such Interest Period.
Page  4
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month
               period ending on the date immediately
               preceding each date specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
               the Interest Period in which this
               Agreement is signed.
          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
               cost, as reasonably determined by the
               Bank and expressed as a percentage per
               annum, of the  outstanding borrowings of
               the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
               excluding such borrowings or portions
               thereof as the Bank has allocated to
               fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and
               (B) loans which may be made by the Bank
               after July 1, 1989 bearing interest
               rates determined otherwise than as
               provided in paragraph (a) of this
               Section.
          (iii)     "Semester" means the first six
                    months or the second six months of
                    a calendar year.
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no
less than six months' notice to the Borrower,
paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall
be amended to read as follows:
               "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on
          the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
          and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
          for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
          Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
          the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one
          percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
          specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
          the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on
          the principal amount outstanding during the
          preceding Interest Period, calculated at the
          rates applicable during such Interest
          Period."
               "(b)  As soon as practicable after the
          end of each Quarter, the Bank shall notify
          the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of such
          Quarter."
               "(c)  (iii)  'Quarter' means a
          three-month period commencing on January 1,
          April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar
          year."
     Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each
year.
     Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the
principal amount of the Loan in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
Page  5
     Section 2.08. (a)  Upon the occurrence of any of
the following events, the Bank, at its option, may, by
notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, require the
Borrower to repay, in advance of maturity, such portion
of the principal amount of the Loan then outstanding as
specified below together with all accrued interest and
other charges thereon:
          (i)  The Bank shall have determined at any
               time that any amount of the Loan has not
               been used on or prior to the Closing
               Date for the purpose of the Project in
               which case the amount of the Loan
               subject to prepayment shall be such
               amount as shall have been so determined.
          (ii) Any portion of the Collateral shall have
               been released to the Guarantor and the
               amount of the remaining Collateral shall
               be less than the amount set forth in
               Section 2.01 of this Agreement in which
               case the amount of the Loan subject to
               prepayment shall be equal to the
               difference between the amount set forth
               in Section 2.01 of this Agreement and
               the remaining  amount  of the Collateral
               less: (i) any amounts which have been
               previously prepaid pursuant to this
               Section 2.08 (a) (ii); and (ii) any
               amounts which would have been subject to
               such prepayment but for the provision of
               the following sentence.  The provisions
               of this paragraph shall not apply if the
               Guarantor establishes, to the
               satisfaction of the Bank, that the
               amount of such Collateral so released
               has been or will be used to support
               further debt or debt service reduction
               activities of the Guarantor.
     (b)  The Borrower, and the Guarantor pursuant to
Section 3.02 (b) of the Guarantee Agreement, shall
inform the Bank of the occurrence of any of the events
listed in paragraph (a) of this Section within five (5)
working days of the occurrence thereof.
     (c)  The Bank hereby waives the payment of any
premium payable under Schedule 2 to this Agreement on
prepayment of any portion of the Loan pursuant to
paragraph (a) of this Section.
     (d)  Prepayment of all or any portion of the Loan
in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section shall
be made on a date and in the currency specified by the
Bank and the amount so prepaid shall be deleted from
the Central Disbursement Account on such date.
     Section 2.09. (a) The Ministry of Finance of the
Guarantor is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required
or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction to the
foregoing, the Borrower hereby entrusts the Ministry of
Finance of the Guarantor with responsibility for the
preparation of withdrawal applications under the Loan
and for the collection of the documents and other
evidence to be furnished to the Bank in support of such
applications.
Page  6
                      ARTICLE III
          Transfer of Funds; Other Covenants
     Section 3.01.  The Borrower shall enter into
contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank,
with the Guarantor, providing, inter alia, for
relending the proceeds of the Loan to the Guarantor on
the same terms and conditions as are set forth in
Sections 2.04, 2.05, 2.06, 2.07 and 2.08 of this
Agreement and on the condition that such proceeds
relent shall not be used except as may be required for
purposes of carrying out the Project.  Such contractual
arrangements shall also provide that the Guarantor
shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, separate
records and accounts in respect of the Project.  Except
as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
change or fail to enforce any provision of such
contractual arrangements.
     Section 3.02.  (a)  The Borrower and the Bank, and
the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.01 (a) of the
Guarantee Agreement, shall from time to time at the
request of any party, exchange views on the Project.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the
Borrower, and the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of the Guarantee Agreement, shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the Project
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
                      ARTICLE IV
                 Remedies of the Bank
     Section 4.01.   Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of
the General
Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
     (a)  any event shall have occurred that, in the
reasonable judgment of the Bank, materially and
adversely affects the maintenance of the Collateral
under the agreements entered into pursuant to the
Financing Package; and
     (b)  the pledge of the Collateral shall have
ceased to be a valid and perfected first priority
security interest in favor of the Collateral Agent on
behalf of the holders of the Eligible Bonds.
                       ARTICLE V
              Effective Date; Termination
     Section  5.01.  The following events are specified
as additional conditions to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c)
of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that the contractual arrangements referred to
in Section 3.01 of this Agreement shall have been
executed;
     (b)  that the Guarantor shall have concluded
agreements with Participating Lenders (i) for the
Exchange of Eligible Debt aggregating at least the
equivalent of $40.5 billion; and (ii) holding Eligible
Page  7
Debt aggregating at least the equivalent of $5 billion
for new money under the Financing Package; and
     (c)  that the Guarantor shall have confirmed the
availability of adequate resources to implement the
Exchange.
     Section 5.02.  The following is specified as an
additional matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02
(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank,
namely, that the contractual arrangements referred to
in Section 3.01 of this Agreement have been duly
executed and delivered on behalf of the parties thereto
and are legally binding upon them in accordance with
their terms.
     Section 5.03. The date March 30, 1990 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                      ARTICLE VI
       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01.  The Director General of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
     Section 6.02.  The following addresses are
specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the
General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior, S.N.C.
          Camino Santa Teresa No. 1679
          01900 Mexico, D.F.
          Mexico
          Cable address:                         Telex:
          BANCOMEXT                     BNCE ME-1764393
          Mexico, D.F.
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                         Telex:
          INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
          Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                         64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day and year
first above written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  8
                    By /s/ Shahid Husain
                    Regional Vice President
                    Latin America and the Caribbean
               BANCO NACIONAL DE COMERCIO EXTERIOR, S.N.C.
                             By /s/ Humberto Soto Rodriguez
                              Authorized Representative
                      SCHEDULE 1
        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to
in this Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account for payments made or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made in respect of
the provision of Collateral for the Eligible Bonds and
to be financed out of such Loan proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1
above, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of
payments to be made in respect of the provision of
Collateral unless:
     (a)  the Bank shall have approved the procedures
for such withdrawals, including the arrangements for
the submission to the Bank of legal opinions
satisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable to the
Bank on the Exchange and the establishment and
maintenance of the Collateral pursuant to the Financing
Package;
     (b)  the Bank shall be satisfied, based on
evidence satisfactory to the Bank, with the
arrangements for the establishment and maintenance of
the Collateral; and
     (c)  except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Set-aside Funds are being disbursed concurrently with
the proceeds of the Loan.
                      SCHEDULE 2
                 Amortization Schedule
                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
     beginning October 15, 1995
     through April 15, 2007            52,500,000
Page  9
_______________________________
*    The figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as of the respective dates of
withdrawal.  See General Conditions. Sections 3.04 and
4.03.
                Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions, and except as otherwise provided in Section
2.08 (c) of this Agreement, the premium payable on the
principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be
prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
     Time of Prepayment                      Premium
                                   The interest rate
                                   (ex-pressed as a
                                   percentage per
                                   annum) applicable to
                                   the Loan on the day
                                   of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:
Not more than three years
     before maturity                              0.18
More than three years but
     not more than six years
     before maturity                              0.35
More than six years but
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity                              0.65
More than eleven years but not
     more than fifteen years
     before maturity                              0.88
More than fifteen years
     before maturity                              1.00
                      SCHEDULE 3
        Modifications to the General Conditions
1.   The following provisions of the General Conditions
are deleted:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02.
     (b)  Section 5.02.
     (c)  Section 5.04.
     (d)  Section 5.08.
     (e)  The phrase ", except that the Borrower may
not so cancel any amount of the Loan in respect of
which the Bank shall have entered into a special
commitment pursuant to Section 5.02" in Section 6.01.
Page  10
     (f)  Paragraph (c) of Section 6.03.
     (g)  Section 6.04.
     (h)  The phrase "and not subject to any special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02" in Section 6.07.
     (i)  Section 9.04
     (j)  Section 9.05.
     (k)  Section 9.06.
     (l)  Section 9.08.
     (m)  Section 9.09.
2.   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to
read:
               "'Project' means the provision of
          Collateral  (as defined in the Loan
          Agreement) for the purpose of securing the
          payment of interest on Eligible Bonds (as
          defined in the Loan Agreement) to be
          exchanged for Eligible Debt (as defined in
          the Loan Agreement) that may be financed out
          of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the
          provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan
          Agreement."
3.   Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
               "Section 4.01.  Currencies in which
          Withdrawals are to be Made.  Except as the
          Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
          withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be
          made in the respective currencies in which
          the payments to be financed out of the
          proceeds of the Loan have been made or are to
          be made."
4.   The last sentence of Section 4.02 (a) shall be
modified to
read:
               "Each such amount shall be deleted from
          the Central I Disbursement Account on the
          date it becomes due or such earlier date as
          may be accepted by the Bank for prepayment or
          as may be specified for prepayment pursuant
          to the Loan Agreement."
5.   The second sentence of Section 4.02 (c) shall be
modified to read:
               "Each such amount shall be deleted from
          such subaccount on the date it becomes due or
          such earlier date as may be accepted for
          prepayment or as may be specified for
          prepayment pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
6.   Section 5.01 shall be modified to read:
               "Section 5.01. Withdrawal from the Loan
          Account. The Borrower shall be entitled to
          withdraw from the Loan Account amounts paid
          or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid
          for the purposes of the Project in accordance
          with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and
          of these General Conditions."
Page  11
7.   Section 5.03 shall be modified to read:
               "Section 5.03. Applications for
          Withdrawal. When the Borrower shall desire to
          withdraw any amount from the Loan Account,
          the Borrower shall deliver to the Bank a
          written application in such form, and
          containing such statements and agreements, as
          the Bank shall reasonably request.
          Applications for withdrawal, including the
          documentation required pursuant to this
          Article, shall be made promptly in relation
          to payments for the Project."
8.   Section 9.07 shall be modified to read:
               "Section 9.07.  Records and Reports.
          (a)  the Borrower shall: (i) maintain records
          and procedures adequate to record and monitor
          the progress of the Project (including its
          cost and the benefits to be derived from it),
          to identify the payments financed out of the
          proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their
          use in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's
          representatives to examine the records and
          documents relevant to the performance of the
          obligations of the Borrower under the Loan
          Agreement and of the Guarantor under the
          Guarantee Agreement; and (iii) furnish to the
          Bank at regular intervals all such
          information as  the Bank shall reasonably
          request concerning the Project, its cost and,
          where appropriate, the benefits to be derived
          from it, and the payments financed out of the
          proceeds of the Loan.
               (b) Not later than six months after the
          Closing Date or such later date as may be
          agreed for this purpose between the
          Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower, the
          Guarantor and the Borrower shall prepare and
          furnish to the Bank a joint report, of such
          scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
          reasonably request, on the carrying out of
          the Project, its cost and the benefits
          derived and to be derived from it, the
          performance by the Guarantor, the Borrower
          and the Bank of their respective obligations
          under the Guarantee Agreement and the Loan
          Agreement and the accomplishment of the
          purposes of the Loan."
