RESTRICTED
CIRCULATING COPY          Report No. P-637
R r pcn)VO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
IL        fr           IN GENERAL FILES
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR A LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
September 11, 1968



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR A LIVESTOCK DELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to us$ 3 million to
the Republic of Uganda.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In 1967 the Government of Uganda requested an IDA credit to
help finance a large-scale commercial beef ranching development scheme,
prepared primarily by the Agricultural Development Service (ADS) staff
in the Bank's Permanent M'ission in Eastern Africa. The proposed project
was appraised by a Bank mission which visited Uganda in May/June 1967.
Preliminary correspondence and discussions were lengthy because it was
considered desirable to encourage commercial banks operating in Uganda
to participate in medium-term financing for the development of the live-
stock sector in Uganda. Private, Cooperative and Government-owned ranching
enterprises are included in the proposed project. The Uganda Commercial
Bank (UCB) wholly owned by the Govermnent would be responsible for channel-
ling IDA funds for the project.
3.        Formal negotiations took place in Washington in May 1968.   The
borrower was represented by Mr. Wakhweya, Deputy Governor, Bank of Uganda,
Mr. Jayarajan, Assistant to the Governor, Bank of Uganda, Mr. Kagoda,
Deputy Commissioner Veterinary Services, and Mr. Nyakabwa) Senior State
Attorney. The Uganda Development Corporation (UDC) was represented by
Mr. Matega, Chief Accountant, and Mr. Gregor, Financial Adviser. The
Uganda Livestock Industries (ULI) was represented by Mr. Clifford, Manager.
Mr. Milligan attended the negotiations on behalf of the three British Com-
mercial Banks in Uganda which have shown interest in participating in the
financing of the proposed project, viz. Barclays, Standard and National
and Grindlays and their associated Development Finance Corporations. Final
clearances of the draft documents by the Government and other parties con-
cerned were completed by early September.
4.        This is the first livestock development project proposed for IDA
financing in Uganda and would be the fourth IDA credit to Uganda, increas-
ing the total IDA financing in that country to $21.4 million. Before
independence, Uganda received a loan for power development from the Bank
of $8.L million which was guaranteed by the United Kingdan. The following
is a summary statement of the Bank loan and IDA credits to Uganda as of
August 31, 1968:



-2-
Loan or                                            Amount (US $ million)
Credit No.   Year    Borrower     Purpose        Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
279-UG       1961    Uganda      Electric Power  8.40               -
101-UG       1967    Uganda      Education               10.00     9.94
108-UG       1967    Uganda      Roads                    5.00     4.73
109-UG       1967    Uganda      Tea                      3.40     2.89
Total (less cancellations)          8.40    18.4o
of which has been repaid to
Bank and others                   1.h4
Total now outstanding               6.96
Amount sold:                8.32
of' which has been repaid  1.44   6.88
Total now held by Bank and
IDA                                .o8    18.40
Total undisbursed                           17.56    17.56
5.        In addition to the above loan and credits, the Bank has made three
loans for common services in East Africa, two for railways and harbors and
one for telecommunications. All three loans are guaranteed jointly and
severally by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, with the United Kingdom also being
a guarantor for the first loan for railways and harbors.  The following is
a summary statement of these loans as of August 31, 1968:
No.      Year       Borrower               Purpose          Bank   Undisbursed
110-EA   1955    East African Common Railways and harbors   24.0        -
Services Authority
(EACSA )*
428-EA   1965    East African Common Railways and harbors   38.0      11.5
Services Authority
(EACSA)*
483-EA   1967    East African Common  Telecommunications     13.0      8.4
Services Authority
(EACSA)**
Total (less cancellations)                 75.0
of which has been repaid to Bank         13.3
Total now outstanding                      61.7
Amount sold:                     23.8
of which has been repaid         13.2    10.6
Total now held by Bank                     51.1
Total undisbursed                                    19.9
*    The East African Community has succeeded EACSA as Borrower.
**   The East African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation has
succeeded EACSA as Borrower.



- 3 -
6.        IFC has made one investment in Uganda in Mulco Textiles Ltd.
in 1964. The investment totalled US $3.51 million equivalent, of which
$2.80 million was loan and $o.64 million equity. $70,000 is a standby
commitment. As of August 31, 1968, $3.44 million had been disbursed.
7.        An agricultural credit project is to be appraised in the near
future. Applications are also expected from Uganda for further education
and roads projects.
8.        For the East African Community, two new projects one for railways
and the other for harbors, are being prepared for submission to the Bank.
PART II -   DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
9.        Borrovier:          The Republic of Uganda
Beneficiary:        The Uganda Commercial Bank (UCB)
Amount:             US $3.0 million equivalent in various
currencies.
Purpose:            To help finance, along with participating
banks, the development of five large publicly-
owned beef ranches, a cooperative ranch and
about fifty medium-sized private beef ranches
in Uganda and the provision by Government of
technical services necessary for facilitating
such development.
Amortization:       In 50 years including ten-year grace period,
through semi-annual installments of 1/2 of
1% from March 15, 1978 through March 15, 1998
and of 1-1/2% from September 15, 1998 through
March 15, 2018.
Service Charge:     3/4 of 1%
Relending Terms:    The Government will re-lend $2.7 million
equivalent to UCB at an average interest
rate of about 6 percent per annum with
amortization over 10 to 12 years including
grace periods of 3 to 4 years. The UCB will
in turn make available both directly and
through participating commercial banks the
proceeds of the IDA credit to ranching enter-
prises for similar periods at an interest
rate of 8 percent per annum.



PART III - THE PROJECT
10.       An appraisal report entitled "Beef Ranching Development Project
- Uganda" (To 638a, dated September 9, 1968) is attached. The Project is
part of Ugandafs long-term beef cattle development program and provides
for financing the development of five large ranches, each of 38,000 to
45,000 acres, to be operated by Uganda Livestock Industries (ULI) a sub-
sidiary of the Uganda Development Corporation, one cooperatively-owned
ranch of 38,000 acres, and about 50 existing privately operated ranches
of about 3,000 acres each. Under the lending program financing would be
made available for such investments as on-ranch roads, firebreaks, fencing,
water supply, stock handling and animal health control facilities, ranch
buildings, breeding stock and an initial procurement of feeder steers for
fattening. Loans to the ranching companies and ranches would be made by
the Uganda Commercial Bank and the other participating commercial banks.
Three British banks and their Development Finance Corporations would par-
ticipate in the project. Each loan would be based on a ranch development
plan prepared by the applicants with the assistance of a technical services
staff headed by a Project Director.
11.       The Project is estimated to cost about $5.1 million of wzhich
$4.7 million would be for ranch development and the balance of $0.4 milion
for technical services. The proposed IDA credit of $3.0 million would
finance approximately 60 percent of the total project cost and roughly
equal the estimated foreign exchange costs. The balance would be provided
by participating banks (20 percent), and ranching companies or private
ranches (20 percent).
12.       The arrangements agreed with the Government of Uganda for the
proposed financing operations are as follows:
(i) IDA would make the proposed credit to the Government of
Uganda.
(ii) The Government of Uganda would lend the IDA funds to the
Uganda Commercial Bank (UCB).
(iii)  UCB would channel some of the IDA funds to the participa-
ting commercial banks for on-lending, together with some
of its own funds, to ranches; UCB would also make direct
loans to ranches using funds from IDA and its own resources.
(iv) Technical services would be provided by the Project Direc-
tor and a small team who would assist in the preparation
of individual ranch development plans and supervise their
execution, The Project Director would be appointed by the
Government with the approval of IDA and be responsible to
an inter-ministerial Project Committee comprising represen-
tatives from the Government departments concerned, the
Central Bank, the Uganda Commercial Bank and the Comm.ercial
Bankers' Association in Uganda.



13.       The terms under which the commercial banks were to participate
in the proposed project were the subject of prolonged correspondence and
negotiations arising mainly from the fact that participating commercial
banks in Uganda had hitherto only provided short-term financing and were
unfamiliar with the type of medium-term financing of livestock development
envisaged in the Project. It was eventually agreed that the commercial
banks would participate by providing from their own funds 25 percent of
the individual loans to the ULI and some of the private ranching enter-
prises, and administering the remaining 75 percent as Agents for the UCB.
The interest rate charged to the ranching enterprises in all cases would
be 8 percent per annum with repayments spread over 10 to 12 years includ-
ing a grace period of four years. On their own funds the participating
banks would get a commitment fee of 1 percent on a once-for-all basis
and on the funds obtained froma UCB., a service fee of 1 to 165 percent
per annum.
14.       The Uganda Commercial Bank (UCB) is a Government-ownmed bank
with an authorised capital of US $5.6 million equivalent. It has been
playing an increasingly effective role in the economic life of the country
with a very extensive network of branches. Its Board of Directors is com-
posed of five to nine members appointed by the Minister of Finance. The
management has been efficient and particular care has been taken to ensure
adequate training of the steadily expanding staff. UCB should therefore
be able to handle satisfactorily the additional responsibilities it will
have under the proposed project.
15.       International competitive bidding is being followed for the
purchase of all items for which such a procedure would be suitable like
fencing wire, tractors and vehicles for ULI ranches. In the case of
other physical inputs full advantage -will be taken of the existing ade-
quate competition in the supply of goods both imported and local. Live-
stock procurement will be mainly from neighboring Kenya and Tanzania for
the reason that animals adapted to the environment and of the type and
quality required cannot easily be obtained elsewhere.
16.       Greater local production of beef would enable savings in imports
which, together with export earnings, would amount to about $560, 000 a
year in foreign exchange. The estimated rate of return to the economy
from the Project is 17 percent. Contribution to the upgrading of the
national herd of livestock., demonstration of better techniques of produc-
tion and disease control and training of Ugandan personnel in livestock
development are additional indirect benefits which are not readily quanti-
fiable. With Uganda's largely untapped pasture resources and natural
climatic advantages for livestock production, together with the urgent
need to diversify agricultural production., these benefits could be sub-
stantial.



- 6 -
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
17.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Uganda and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Assoc-
iation and the Uganda Commercial Bank and the Recommendation of the Com-
mittee provided for under Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Direc-
tors separately.
18.       The draft Development Credit and Project Agreements follow the
general pattern of other agreements used for livestock projects. The
Borrower is required to relend part of the proceeds of the Credit to the
Uganda Commercial Bank under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to
the Association. In addition the Uganda Commercial Bank and the Partici-
pating Banks will enter into Administration Agreements satisfactory to the
Association, under which the Participating Banks will participate in loans
to ranching enterprises and will act as the agents of the Uganda Commercial
Bank to administer such loans.
19.       The Borrower undertakes to use the proceeds of repayments in res-
pect of the Credit which it receives from the Uganda Commercial Bank and
which are not currently required to service the Credit,for purposes of
beef ranching development for a period of sixteen years from the date of
the Development Credit Agreement. The Borrower also confirms its inten-
tion that it will not, without consulting the Association, (i) impose any
price controls on the marketing of beef cattle and beef products, (ii)
establish export taxes or duties on such beef cattle and (iii) increase
export taxes or duties on such beef products.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
20.       An Economic Report entitled "Prospects for Economic Development
in Uganda" (Volume IV of AF-58b, dated August 31, 1967) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on September 8, 1967 (R 67-146). On April 4,
1968, an Economic Memorandum, "Recent Developments in the East African
Community, Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda", (AF-74) was also distributed
(R 68-52).
21.       Uganda's GDP, at factor cost and measured at constant 1960
prices, increased by 2.8 percent in 1967, compared with 4.6 percent in
1966. Although the output of tea, tobacco and sugar increased substan-
tially, coffee output (which is s-abject to export quota restrictions
under the International Coffee Agreement) was only a little higher and
together these increases only slightly more than offset the fall in prod-
uction of one of Uganda's two main crops - cotton. The smaller cotton
crop was due mainly to lower producer prices, which were adjusted to bring
them into line with world market prices. Manufacturing, excluding crop
processing, recorded a real increase of nearly 16 percent, thus continuing
the rising trend of the past few years. Official estimates for 1968 indi-
cate that, although manufacturing will again expand rapidly, the real growth



rate of GDP is unlikely to be higher than in 1967, largely because cotton
production is forecast to fall by 22 percent in response to adverse weather
conditions and the lower producer prices mentioned above. Thus, if Uganda
is to achieve a higher overall growth rate, there is need for greater
efforts in stimulating a higher growth rate in agriculture by using re-
latively untapped resources, and the proposed livestock project is a step
in the right direction.
22.       Although the growTth of the economy as a whole was small in 1967,
gross fixed capital formation increased by nearly a quarter to U 140 million,
after a decline during the previous year, and is now about 22 percent of
monetary GDP at factor cost. There is no sectoral breakdown of capital
formation, but it appears likely that a high proportion was in manufacturing.
23.       In the field of foreign trade total exports rose by only 0.8 per-
cent, but total imports fell by 4.3 percent. Exports outside the Common
Market fell by 2 percent, but this was slightly more than offset by an
increase in exports to Kenya and Tanzania, reflecting principally the re-
sumption of sugar exports to Kenya. Imports from overseas declined by
nearly 4 percent, while imports from Kenya fell by just over 5 percent.
The decline in total imports was largely in response to the 1967 Budget
measures, but reflects also quantitative restrictions on imports from Kenya
which have since been replaced by "transfer taxes". Uganda's convertible
foreign assets wqhich in 1966 had fallen to a dangerously low level have
steadily increased in the past 12-18 months, and in March 1968 amounted to
El6 million or the equivalent of 3.5 months' imports.
24.       The revised estimate of the current surplus in the Government's
budget in 1967/68 shows a reduction of U E5 million from the original
estimate of U f8 million. Supplementary appropriations, particularly for
education, were the cause of this. For this reason, although development
expenditure was only U L14.5 million as against the budgeted figure of
U E17 million, instead of a small surplus, there was an overall deficit of
U L3.3 million.
25.       In 1968/69 a current surplus of nearly Ei million is budgeted
for. In order to achieve this, customs and excise duties have been in-
creased and a new sales tax, varying from 10 to 20 percent ad valorem,
has been introduced, with all essential foodstuffs, all raw materials
and many other inputs for industry exempted. The development tax has
been reduced, but the yield from the above tax changes is estimated to
exceed the reduced yield from the development tax by U I4.4h million. Esti-
mated development expenditure is put at U f21.7 million (compared with
U E14.5 million in 1967/68). To meet this it is estimated that external
sources will provide U f6.0 million, development revenue U fl.8 million,
internal borrow^Jing U E4.5 million and the current surplus E3.9 million.
There would still be an apparent overall deficit of U E5.5 million, but
capital expenditure would be incurred only to the extent that resources
are available. Nevertheless, Uganda will contribute from its owin resour-
ces a considerable part of the financing of development expenditures.



- 8 -
26.       In 1967, payments on account of Uganda's own debt and a one-
third share of debt on account of the East African Common Services absorbed
5.4 percent of the country's foreign exchange earnings. In 1968, however,
debt service payments will rise to a little over 8 percent of Uganda's
estimated foreign exchange earnings, and may average about 7 to 8 percent
during the next few years, on account of peaks in debt service either on
Uganda's own account or on account of the Common Services.
27.       On grounds of relative poverty, satisfactory performance, rela-
tively poor export prospects and a need for a level of external assistance
which would lead to dangerously high debt service obligations if received
entirely on conventional terms, Uganda should continue to be classified as
a soft-blend country.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE W4ITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
28.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECO1NMDATION
29.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
Resolution:
RESOLUTION NO. IDA
Approval of Development Credit to Republic of Uganda in
an amount equivalent to U.S. $3,000,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit to the
Republic of Uganda in an amount in various currencies equivalent to three
million United States dollars (U.S. $3,000,000) to mature on and prior to
March 15, 2018, to bear a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of
one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum, and to be upon such other terms and
conditions as shall be substantially in accordance with the terms and
conditions set forth in the form of Development Credit Agreement (Beef
Ranching Development Project) between the Republic of Uganda and the
Association and Project Agreement (Beef Ranching Development Project)
between the Association and the Uganda Commercial Bank, which have been
presented to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
September 11, 1968



