RESTRICTED
Report No. TO-638a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
UGANDA
September 9, 1968
Projects Department



CU;RRMCY EQUIVALITS
US$ 1 i                          Uganda Shillings 7.14
U Sh 1                 -         100 cents  - US$ 0.14
El                     -         U Sh 20    - US$ 2.80
t 1 million            a         US$ 2.8 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Imperial System



UGANDA
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTEINTS
Page No.
S    U    M      M    A R Y                                       i
I.    INTRODUCTION .... . . . . . . . . . .  * * * * * * * * *    1
II.   B3ACKGROUND ............................                    1
As General   ...  * .  * . . . . . . .  * . . . .  * . .  *    1
B. The Beef Cattle Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
C .   Animal  Health    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  . .  .   . .  .  3
D. Agricultural Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
E. Land Tenure  . . . . . . . . . .                         4 . . . . . . . . . .    4
F. Government Policies on Livestock Development . . . .     4 4
III.  THE  PROJECT    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  e
A. Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..    5
B.   Project  Area  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  5
C. Detailed Features  .............. .                      6
D. Cost Estimates . . . . . . a a  a .  . . . . . .         7
E. Proposed Finan   ci ng................                   8
F. Disbursements and Auditing . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
IV.   ORGAUaZATION AND MANAGEENT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
A. Project Administration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
B. Technical Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
C. Lending Operations . . . . a  . . o  . .  V...  ..  . . ...    11
D. Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
E.   Marketing    .  .  . .  . .  . .  .  . .  .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .  12
V.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION . . .  .. .... .  . . . . .    13
VI.   CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission to Uganda
in May and June, 1967, composed of Messrs. J. C. Gerring, F. H. Knobel and
A. Schumacher who all contributed to the report with Mr. Gerring having
primary responsibility.



ANNEXES
1.   The Banking System
Table 1: Consolidated Financial Statement of All Commercial Banks
Table 2: Financial Statement, 1966 and 1967 - Uganda Commercial Bank
2.   Uganda Development Corporation
Table 1: Consolidated Annual Balance Sheet 1962-1966
Table 2: Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 1962-1966
Table 3: Uganda Livestock Industries and Subsidiary Companies -
Consolidated Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account
3.  Animal Health
4.   Ranch Development Models
Table 1: Breeding Ranch - Large Size (9,000 Animal Units)
Table 2: Breeding/Fattening Ranch - Medium Size (640 Animal Units)
Table 3: Fattening Ranch - Large Size (7,500 Animal Units)
5.  A.   Ranch Investments and Operating Expenses
Table lA: Breeding Ranch - Large Size
Table 2A: Breeding/Fattening Ranch - Medium Size
Table 3A: Fattening Ranch - Large Size
Table 4A: Ranch Investments
B.  Projected Cash Position and Annual Herd Value
Table 1B: Breeding Ranch - Large Size
Table 2B: Breeding/Fattening Ranch - Medium Size
Table 3B: Fattening Ranch - Large Size
6.   Projected Phasing of Ranch Investment Costs and IDA Disbursements
7.        Table 1:  Projected Cash Flow - Uganda Commercial Bank,
Livestock Account
Table 2: Projected Cash Flow for Participating Banks
8.  Administration Budget
9.  Project Organization Chart
10.   Duties. Powers and Qualifications of the Project Director
11.. Quantitative Benefits and Rate of-Return Calculations
Table 1: Financial Rate of Return of Ranch Models
Table 2: Estimated Net Benefit and Rate of Return to the Economy
Table 3: Annual Increased Turn-off of Beef and Breeding Stock
at Full Development from Project Ranches
MAP - Project Areas



UGAP.DA
BEEF RAXMCh I UG DEVELOPYENT PROJECT
SIiTARY
i.        The Government of Uganda has requaested an IDA Credit to help
finance the development of commercial beef ranches. The country has great
potential for expanding its output of beef froma extensive areas of existing
natural grasslands recently cleared of tsetse fly. This Project would supply
substantial numbers of cattle to utilize this resource.
ii.       Finance would be provided for such investments as on-ranch roads,
firebreaks, fencing, water supplies, stock handling and animal health control
facilities, ranchl buildings, breeding stock and an initial procurement of
feeder steers for fattening.
iii.      It is expected that five large government ranches, one large
cooperative union ranch, and 50 mediun size co.mercial ranches would
participate in the Project.  T'he IDA Credit would be channeled through the
Uganda Commercial Bank (UCB) with coummercial banks' participating in the
financing operations.  Together with their own funds, these banks would pro-
vide long term loans of 10-12 years for beef ranching developrmient.
iv.       The coordinating body for the Project would be a Project Committee
composed of one representative each from the Department of Veterinary Services,
the Department of Agriculture, the Liinistry of Commerce and Industry, the
M4inistry of IMineral and Water Resources, the Bank of Uganda, the Uganda
Commercial Bank and the Uganda Bankers Association.  A small technical ser-
vices unit headed by an internationally recruited Project Director would
assist the applicant-borrowers in preparing ranch development plans as the
basis for loans made by partici-ating banks. This technical unit would also
supervise execution of the rancha development plans and would give technical
assistance to participant ranchers.
v.        The Project is estimated to cost about US$5.1 million equivalent
of which USA4.7 million would be for ranch development and the balance of
USPO.4 million for technical services.  The IDA Credit would finance approx-
imately 60 percent of the total project cost (US4P3 million), and correspond
roughly to the estimated foreign exchange costs.  Thie balhnce would be pro-
vided by participating banks (20 percent)  and ranching companies or private
ranchers (20 percent).
vi.       IThe Project is technically sound and economically justified.  The
proposed administrative arrangements are satisfactory. Expected benefits to
participant ranches and to the national econory are substantial.  The Project
is suitable for an IDA Credit of US3 million.  The borrower would be the
Government of Uganda and the Credit would be chianneled through the Uganda
Coimmercial Bank with cormercial banks participating in the financing opera-
tions.



UGAITDA
BEEF RA?TC1ING DEVELOP1,1ENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
lcOl      The Government of Uganda on behalf of the Uganda Development
Corporation (UDC) requested an IDA credit to help finance a large-scale
beef ranching development scheme to be carried out by Uganda Livestock In-
dustries Ltd (ULI), a subsidiary holding company of UDC. The request was
based primarily on a report completed in the latter part of 1966 with the
assistance of the Agricultural Development Service (ADS), an affiliate of
the IBRD's Permanent Mission in Eastern Africa based in Nairobi. This
appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission which visited Uganda
in May/June 1967. The mission was composed of Messrs. J. Gerring, F. Knobel,
and A. Schumachler, who all contributed to the report with Mr. Gerring hav-
ing primary responsibility.
1.02      The request originally submLitted by the Uganda Government in-
volved only the development of a Government ranching enterprise which
appeared likely to have a rather limited impact on the country's economy.
Furthermore, the local contribution would have been less than 10 percent
of the finance needed, whicr would not meet the normal requirement for
local participation in an IDA financed project in Uganda.
1.03      During appraisal the Project was broadened to include the commer-
cial sector. In this enlarged Project, ULI would be assigned the key role
of building up breeding herds of improved cattle in order to provide surplus
breeding heifers and feeder steers for sale to private ranchers.
1.04      Discussions were held with officials of both private and public
banks to explore additional sources of finance, and to provide a suitable
system for making and servicing loans to ranching enterprises. The banks
expressed a willingness to participate in the Project with IDA. However,
since such participation would be a new experience to the banks, somewhat
protracted discussions were necessary with Government and the banks before
a financially acceptable Project could be formulated. (See Annex 1 on the
Banking System)
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Uganda is a land-locked country of some 58 million acres of which
nine million are open water and one million swamp. Sitbuated between latitude
10S and 40l1, more than 60 percent of its land surface lies between 3,000 and
5,000 feet in altitude. It has a population of nearly eight million people,
of which about 80 percent are in the rural areas.



- 2 -
2.02      Its economy depends mainly on agriculture, which, in 1966, contrib-
uted about 60 percent of Uganda's GDP, with the beef industry accounting for
about 4 percent. Livestock exports, c-hiefly hides, constitute roughly 2
percent of total export receipts. Livestock imports consist mainly of the
higher quality beef from Kenya valued at L 195,000 in 1966, which accounts
for approximately 2.5 percent of total food imports. In the face of uncer-
tain price prospects for cotton and coffee, the two principal exports, diver-
sification of farm production is most important. Uganda's soils and climate,
together with successful eradication of the tsetse fly over large areas,
offer favorable prospects for expanding the livestock industry.
2.03      The Uganda Development Corporation (UDC) was set up in 1952 to take
the initiative in developing all major sectors of the country's economy on
commercial lines. Its net annual earnings have averaged El.0 million in
recent years, which represent a return of 7-15 percent of net assets (Annex
2). For each new enterprise it forms a subsidiary company, and in 1966 it
created the Uganda Livestock Industries Ltd (ULI) to develop and manage beef
cattle and dairy enterprises. ULI has since taken over a 40 ,000 acre ranch
(Kiryana) previously operated by Agricultural Enterprises Ltd, as well as
a 38,000 acre ranch (ilariam) previously run by Uganda Meat Packers Ltd, both
subsidiary companies of UDC. ULI is extending its ranching operations by
acquiring leasehold rights to thrce other areas totalling 147,000 acres.
B. The Beef Cattle Sector
2.04      The cattle population is estimated at 3.6 million head (1965), the
majority grazing communal lands.  A.part from the drier northeast province
of Karamoja,where the majority of the pure pastoralists are found (see Map),
most of the country has an ideal climate for pasture and livestock production.
During the last 15 years, tsetse fly has been cleared from extensive areas of
unoccupied land.  This has opened up some of the best grazing lands in the
country on which it is conservatively estimated that one million head of cattle
could be carried.  Present plans to extend ULI's ranching operations are de-
signed to exploit this potential for commrercial ranching. In addition, the
Government has provided technical advice and financial support for the partial
developrment of about one hundred privately owned ranches (3,300 - 10,000
acres), and some 40 cooperative group farms (300 - 1,200 acres) engaged in
mixed livestock/cropping enterprises. A 38,000 acre ranch is being developed
by a cooperative union. The major factor retarding this development is the
scarcity of cattle.
2.05      In the traditional sector where local uniraproved stock are run
merely as an adjunct to cropping, the numaber of calves weaned in the course
of a year seldom exceeds 40 per hundred breeding cows.  In consequence, few
surplus breeding heifers can be sold for building up new herds.  Cattle
marketed from this sector consist miainly of stock for slaughter over and
above subsistence needs plus a limited rudber of feeder steers for fattening.
Sales recorded in 1963 show that 143,000 cattle went through the local
government supervised markets.  Several tines this number was sold privately
or consumed by the subsistence sector.



- 3 -
2.06      Consumption of beef is expected. to increase about 4 percent per
annum during the next five years.  With rising incomes in the urban areas,
Uganda is experiencing an increasing shortfall in the higher grades of beef,
currently being met by imports of 8 - 10,000 cattle per year from Kenya. It
is estimated that the rise in urban demand for this type of beef will approx-
imate 7-8 percent per annum. This would require a doubling of meat imports
over the next decade unless local production of better quality beef is
promptly encouraged.
C. Animal Health
2.07      Government has made considerable progress in the control of dis-
eases which, until recent years, have limited the expansion of the livestock
industry (Annex 3). These include in particular rinderpest and contagious
bovine pleuropneumonia, both of which are being contained within the north
and northeast regions of the country by barrier zones of vaccinated cattle.
Foot-and-PIouth Disease, which is endemic and of lesser importance, is con-
trolled mainly by quarantine measures, vaccination because of its high cost
is practiced on a limited scale only, but would be carried out on project
ranches (para. 4.04).
2.08      Noteworthy progress has been made in the control of tsetse fly, the
vector responsible for trypanosormiasis of cattle. This fly, which renders
vast areas of Africa uninhabitable by cattle, has been successfully cleared
from 11,000 square miles (7 million acres) in Uganda. A five-year program
to clear a further 3,200 square miles is well under way. This achievtement,
more than any other single factor, by opening up unoccupied land, has pro-
vided the opportunity for developing commercial ranching.
2.09      Tickl-borne diseases, particularly East Coast Fever, have for years
been responsible for serious losses in the traditional livestock sector
where dipping is not practiced. Veterinary authorities in Uganda have dem-
onstrated that the routine dipping of all cattle effectively prevents these
losses. This method is now used on all commercial ranches. More recently
plans have been formulated for a national tick eradication scheme.
D. Agricultural Services
2.10      The Department of Veterinary Services of the Ministry of Animal
Industry, Game and Fisheries is responsible for carrying out all disease
control measures including veterinary diagnostic and research services. Its
performance has been irpressive. This department has taken the lead in devel-
oping the private ranching sector in order to make effective use of lands
cleared from tsetse fly. It is also responsible for much of the research on
cattle breeding and has set up an efficiently operated artificial insemina-
tion service to livestock producers.  To encourage the marketing of more
cattle from the traditional sector, it has replaced a number of private bar-
gaining markets with auction rings where cattle are weighed before being
auctioned.



- 4 -
2.11      The Department of Agriculture of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Cooperatives is responsible for pasture improvement and management research
in which it is conducting some outstanding work at its Serere Research Station.
This Department together with the Departmient of Cooperatives of the 'LIinistry
of Agriculture and Cooperatives provides advisory services to private and co-
operative producers. Assistance in the siting and construction of dams for
livestock water supplies, an important need in the development of commercial
ranching, is provided by the Department of Water Development of the Ministry
of Mineral and Water Resources.
2.12      Education and training facilities have been expanded recently.  The
University of East Africa offers a degree course in agriculture at Kampala,
Uganda, and in Veterinary Science at *abete, Kenya.  The Veterinary Training
Institute at Entebbe in Uganda conducts a two year course for the training of
veterinary assistants. Outstanding students can continue for a third year
leading to a diploma in animal husbandry. However, it is evident that the
agricultural sector will continue to need the services of expatriate pro-
fessional and technical staff for som-e years to come. Despite efforts to
recruit Ugandans for Government services, there are more vacancies than can
be filled by qualified Ugandans, particularly in the fields of education,
research, planning, and the managenent of development projects.
2.13     M4ost of the agricultural credit available has been used on a short-
term basis for cash crops, principally coffee and cotton. Recently the banks
have shown an increasing interest in the livestock sector and have made a few
three-year loans for the purchase of cattle. ULI has also obtained some
short-term capital for its ranching scheme from one of the large commercial
banks.
E.  Land Tenure
2.14      Land for ranching can be leased from Government for periods of
49 to 99 years.  Rentals range from Sh 0.20 - 0.50 (US`0.03 - 0.07) per acre
per annum for the first five years. The lease is then reviewed and at inter-
vals of 15 years thereafter to make sure that the lessee has fulfilled mini-
mrum development recuirements.  In a few areas, notably in Buganda, land is
owned freehold and can be mort,7aged. sold to Africans, or leased to non-
Africans.
F. Government Policies on Livestock Development
2.15      Government recognizes the irmportant role of livestock development
in diversifying agriculture.  In the beef cattle sector it plans to invest
E h.5 million (US$12.6 m) for the period 1967-72 compared with F 2 million 
(US$5.6 m) from 1961-66.  The bulk of this investment would be expended on
clearing further areas from tsetse fly, controlling tick-borne diseases and
for the expansion of quasi-government and cormercial ranching. The remainder
would be used for improving stock routes and marketing facilities, research
on pasture improvement, and the further development of on-ranch water supplies.



2.16      Beef producers' prices are free from government control and there
are no taxes or quotas on the export of meat. A levy is made on the export
of hides and skins which in 1965 amnounted to 4 percent of their export
value.  Diunicipal governments charge market fees of Sh 4-10 (US$0.56 - 1.40)
per head. Imports of virtually all agricultural inputs are free from duty.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Description
3.01      The Project would be part of a long-term beef cattle development
program. It would include development of five large ranches (each of 38,000 -
45,000 acres) to be operated by Uganda Livestock Industries (ULI), one co-
operatively owned ranch (38,000 acres), and about 50 privately operated
ranches (approximately 3,000 acres each).
3.02      In the investment program provision would be made for financing
on-ranch roads and firebreals, fencing, water supplies, stock handling and
animal health control facilities, machinery, ranch buildings, and for the
purchase of breeding stock. Funds for the initial procurement of feeder
steers for fattening would also be provided.
3.03      Loans to ranching companies/ranchers would be made by the Uganda
Commercial Bank with cormiercial banks participating in the financing opera-
tions.  Each loan would be based on a ranch developmernt plan prepared by
applicants with the assistance of a technical services staff (headed by
a Project Director), internationally recruited for this purpose and attached
to the Bank of Uganda.
B. Project Area
3.04      The five ULI ranches are widely separated.  Two are in Bunyoro
near Piasindi, the Maruzi ranch is on the west bank of the Victoria Nile in
Lango district, the Aswa ranch is in Acholi district, and the Nariam ranch
is in Teso district (see Map).  The first four ranches would be used for
breeding. The Nariam ranch, located on the border of Karamoja, is exposed
to occasional raiding by the neighboring Karamajong. It would therefore be
used for a steer fattening operation since steers do not have the same in-
trinsic value among the Karamajong tribal people as do breeding stock.
3.05      Approximately 50 privately operated ranches each, of about 3,000
acres, are partially developed in the Ankole->Jasaka region 1/ (see
1/   Finance from US-AID has helped to provide some of the basic infra-
structure, such as roads, perimeter fencing, water and dipping
facilities.



- 6 -
ialap). The development of ranches in this area was strongly recommended
by the Bank's 1960 General Survey .4ission 1/ wrhich regarded it as most im-
portant to the development of the livestock industry.  In addition, 40-50
privately operated ranches of 2,000 to 10,00) acres are in various stages
of development in Buganda. A cooperative union ranch of 38,000 acres, at
present carrying less than 1,000 cattle, is being developed near the ULI
Bunyoro ranches (see Map). This and about 50 of the private ranches would
participate in the Project. All are operated by Ugandans. In the case of
the Ankole-Masaka scheme, the ranches are leased to Ugandans who either own
at least 200 head of cattle or have the equivalent in cash. For the most
part they are farmers of some business acumen with a satisfactory educational
background, inte-rity and experience. Individually, they are responsible for
the management of their own ranches as business enterprises, and are strongly
supported with advice and supervision from qualified government advisory
personmel.
C. Detailed Features
3.06      All ranches in the Project areas are on land of gently undulating
to flat contour at an altitude of from 3,000 to 5,000 feet. The year round
climate is similar to a temperate zone summer. Annual rainfall exceeds 30
inches with two peak periods of precipitation, April-May and September-October.
Pasture lands are reasonably fertile, but marked responses to moderate quan-
tities of phosphatic fertilizers have been obtained experimentally on mixed
grass-legume pastures.  There are extensive denosits of high-grade phosphates
in Uganda. Current production is about 25,000 tons of single superphosphate
annually, most of which is exported. Such extensive deposits offer attrac-
tive future possibilities for more intensive pasture development in Uganda.
3.07      Good natural pastures -row readily in most parts of Uganda, the
composition reflecting soil fertility and rainfall.  Most ranches carry a
variable cover of thicket and bush composed of tree Savanna species which in
some areas encroach on land available for grazing.  Preliminary investiga-
tions suggest that chemical control may help to overcome this problem and
funds would be provided under the Project for use at the discretion of the
Project Director to carry out further trials.
3.08      In a few areas stock water is readily available from either per-
manent rivers or boreholes. In most parts, however, the main source of
water is a dam or valley tank,  These are constructed to  "harvest" the run-
off during the rainy season and to store a sufficient quantity of water to
maintain an adequate supply throughlout the year. The present cost of con-
structing such facilities is hi;,h in relation to the volume of water stored.
Funds would be provided under the Project, for use by the Project Director,
to investigate more efficient and less costly methods of dam construction.
1/   The Economic Development of Uganda.  Baltimore, Md., The Johns Hopkins
Press, 1962.



D. Cost Estimates
3.09      The total estimated cost of the Project is US$5.1 million equiva-
lent which is summarized below by major investment categories. See Annexes
4 and 5 for details.
Foreign Exchange
Investment Category                  Cost  /                  Coraponent
i '000     us$'ooo            (U5$'000)
Ranch Development
Physical Inputs 2/                300          840                 350
Breeaing Cattle                   800        2,250               1,745
Feeder Steers 3/                  590        1,650                 750
Subtotal                1,690       4,740               2,845
Technical Services                   125         345                 155
Total Project Cost              1,815        5,085               3,000
1/   Shown in rounded figures.
2/   Includes fencing, machinery, water facilities, on-ranch roads, etc.
3/   Immature cattle for fattening.
3.10      Broken down by major investment categories, the bulk of the Pro-
ject cost would be for purchase of breeding cattle (44 percent) ald feeder
steers (32 percent). Inputs for ranch development account for 17 percent
and technical services for the remaining 7 percent. Funds allocated for
the purchase of stock are higih relative to other inputs. This is because
large areas of pasture already exist. More is being cleared of tsetse fly
eacih year. To utilize this natural resource, cattle are the most essential
investment item for ranch development. The estimated foreign exchange com-
ponent is US$?3 million, 60 percent of total Project cost, or 100 percent of
the proposed Credit. About US$2.5 million in foreign exchange would be for
the purchase of cattle in neighboring Kenya and Tanzania.
3.11      Cost estimates for on-ranch development, operating expenses, and
projected cash position are based on three types of commercial beef ranching
operations envisaged under the Project (Annex 5).  Individual ranch devel-
opment would take two to three years, and execution of the Project would be
completed in five years (Annex 6). Estimuates for the cost of technical ser-
vices are projected in Annex 8.



- 8 -
E. Proposed Financing
3.12      The Project cost of US.,.5.I mil.lion equivalent would be financed
as follows:
Source             Ranch Development      Technical Services          Total
TU73'OO)      (50)     (us$,'ooo)      (/)   (US$'ooo)   (%)
IDA                  2,845       60           155         45       3,000     59
Government             -          -           190         55         190      4
Commercia-l Banks      948       20            -          -         943      19
Ranchers               947        20           -          -         947      18
Total                4,740      100           345        100       5,085    100
3.13      The Government would relend the IDA funds to the Uganda Commercial
Bank (UCB), a government owned bank. Comrmercial banks, acting as agents of
UCB, would also participate in the finarcing operations of the project.
These participating banks are at present Barclpy's Barnk DCO, National and
Grindlay's Bank and Standard Bank Ltd along with their respective overseas
development corporations.  These financing arrangements were devised during
negotiations when it was determiined that Government could not on-lend the
proceeds of the Crodit to any financial institution that was not an '`approved
body" under the External Loans Act. 1/ Under the agreed arrange-'.ent, UCB
would lend directly to ranchers on its own account and to ranche,s and ranch-
ing enterprises through other participatinr comrercial1 baiks which would
act as its agents.
3.14      Ranchers (including ranchin-g companies) would provide about 20
percent of investment cost and borrow the remaining 80 percent from the UCB
and the commercial banks. Of the 80 percent borrowed, UCB and the partici-
pating commercial banks themselves would provide one-quarter (or 20 percent
of the investment cost) from their own resources and would seek reimburse-
ment of three-quarters from IDA funds channeled by Government to UCB. UCB
would use IDA funds for this rei-mbursement and would pay the commercial banks
,a service fee of 1.5 percent for loans made to private ranchers and 1.0
percent for loans made to UII.  All loans to ranchers would be at 8 percent
per annum and the weighted average interest rate to UCE would be about 6.o
percent. Out of this interest incomne, Govermaent would pay the Bank of
Uganda about 2 percent for the costs of the Project technical services , giv-
ing Government a net interest of around 3.25 percent after payment of the
IDA Credit service charge.
3.15      The expected contribution from the participating ranchers/ranching
companies of around 20 percent is considered reasonable, taking into account
the likely increase in their operating costs because of expanded operations
1/   The Bank of Uganda is not an "approved body" but UCB is.



- 9 -
and of the need to retain ani-mals for herd build-up.  They would obtain needed
shaort-term working capital from the participating banks.  This was confirmed
during negotiations.
3.16      Government would draw on the IDA Credit to meet the foreign exchange
costs of technical services (45 percent) and would pass this on to the Bank
of Uganda.  Since income from interest on the ranch sub-loans would be insuf-
ficient to cover the total cost of the technical services in the first few
years, Governmenit would advance the difference, being repaid in full in Year
4 (Annex 7, Table 1). Assurances to this effect were obtained during nego-
tiations.
3.17      Loans to ranchers/ranching companies would be phased over a period
of three years and IDA funds would be disbursed over a period of five years
(Annex 6). UCB would receive the IDA proportion (75 percent) of loan repay-
ments collected by the participating commercial banks and would credit these
funds to a separate Livestock Account. The surplus, after meeting IDA debt
service, would be relent through paxticipatin'g banks or other financial
institutions satisfactory to IDA for further beef cattle development. These
funds, amounting to about US, 3.5 raillion, plus the initial funds from IDA
and the participating banks' contribution would channel, during the 16-year
life of the Project, approximately US-7 million investment capital into the
beef ranching subsector (Annex 7, Table 2). After 16 years, 1/ Government
would make available surplus funds to financial and other qualified
institutions for the further development of the agricultlural sector.
Assurances as to these relending operations were obtained during negotia-
tions.
F. Disbursements and Auiditing
3.18      Withdrawrals from the I1DA Credit for ranch development would be
75 percent of disbursements made by UCB and the participating banks for this
purpose over five years.  Documentation for reim-bursements would consist of
schedules, supported by appropriate evidence, of awounts disbursed by
participating banks to ranchers/ranching companies. Disbursements for the
foreign exchange cost of techrical services would be made against appropriate
documentation. All documentation for disbursements would need to be counter-
signed by the Project Director.  Tie UCB, the Bank of Uganda and the Parti-
cipating Banks would establish and maintain separate accounts for the Project.
3.19      Several comrzercial auditing firms of international repute have
branch offices in Uganda.  Tlhe financial accounts of UDC and its subsidiary
companies are audited annually by Cooper Brothers & Co., an international
firm of chartered accountants, whose services would be acceptable to IDA.
The Bank of Uganda and the UCB, both government banks, have internal auditors
1/   A 16-year period has been adopted in the calculations to cover a 12-year
loan committed in Year 3 with an additional year allowed for slippage
at the end.



- 10 -
but are subject to external audit by the Controller and Auditor-General or
such auditors as the Minister of Finance may appoint.  These auditing ser-
vices and practices are satisfactory for both private and -overnment finan-
cial institutions.  Assurances were obtained durin- ne-otiations that Prolect
accounts in the UCB  3ank of U-anda and Participating Banks would be audited
annually by an auditor acceptable to IDA and certified copies of the audit
statemenits would be forwarded to IDA.
IV.  ORGANIZATION MlD _MTAGEif±1NT
A. Project Administration
4.01      A Project Committee, to be created by Ministerial executive order
prior to the signing date of the Credit Agreement, would be established.
This Committee would be composed of one representative each from the Depart-
ment of Veterinary °ervices and Animal Induztry,. (chairman), Department of
Agriculture, the Ninistry of Cormmerce and Industry, the .iinistry of Mineral
and Water Resources, the Bank of Uganda, the Uganda Commercial Bank and the
Uganda Bankers Association.  The Project Director would act as the Executive
Secretary. The Committee would coordinate the activities and functions of
the Ministries concerned with the Project and formulate the policies and
procedures for carrying out the Project. The or: anizational structure is
sliown in Annex 9.
14.02     Under the proposed Project, ULI would be a principal borrower
(approximately 55 percent of total sub-lending).  Its success in the develop-
ment and operation of its planned beef ranching complex would be an import-
ant factor in the ultimate results of the Project. To enable ULI to operate
effectively and efficiently it was considered essential that it carry out
certain reforms with respect to its corporate, administrative, management
and financial structure (Annex 2). Durinc negotiations assurances were
obtained that the corporate, administrative, and management reforms had
been made.  UDC intends to recapitalize ULI, in a manner satisfactory to the
Association, within three months of the signin-7 of the Credit.
B. Technical Services
4.03      An internationally recruited Project Director, acceptable to the
IDA, would be appointed by Government and attached to the Bank of Uganda.
His duties and responsibilities are detailed in Annex 10. Other staff mem-
bers, including about four livestocl, technicians, a secretary and an office
assistant would be appointed and employed by the Bank of Uganda on the
recommendation of the Project Director to whom they would be responsible.
The Deputy Governor of the Lank of Uganda recommended that the Project tech-
nical services be located in the Bank to ensure the independence of the
staff from the UCB and the participating banks.



- 11 -
40o4      No difficulty is e pected in t"le recruitment of the four livestock
technicians in Uganda. Under tile direction of the Project Director, the
technicians would assist ranchers/ranching coimpanies to prepare development
plans and would also supervise the execution of plans for which loans are
made.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that all cattle going
to or coming from Project ranches, except those to be transported by road or
rail direct to an abattoir for slaughter, would be vaccinated against FMD.
Allowances have been made in the purchase price and operating expenses for
the cost of the vaccine.
C. Lending Operations
4.06      The UCB would have the main responsibility for financing the Project
with three private commercial banks participating in the financing operations.
Applications and loans would be processed and serviced by the banks in the
normal way. Loan applicants would meet credit and security requirements of
the lending banks. Approved loans would be based on ranch development plans
recommended by the Project Director. Also, the technical services staff
would provide the supervision and assistance necessary to ensure successful
completion of each ranch development plan.
4.07      Ranch development loans would be made for terms of 10 to 12 years
including a grace period of 3 to 4 years 3 and interest at 8 percent per
annum, plus a commitment fee of 1 percent on the funds (25 percent) provided
by UCB and the Participating Banks. Short-term worlking capital necessary to
complement tile long-term ranch developLment loans would be provided by UCB
and the Participating Banks. Except for loans to ULI, any loan treater than
US$100 000 equivalent would require prior approval by IDA. Assurances as
to these loan terms were obtained during negotiations.
4.o8      11ost of the loans would be for development of ranches held
under long-term leases from Government for 49 to 99 years. Although the
banks would take mortgages on registered certificates of leases, there is
no experience to suggest that such mortgages would be marketable. They
would also take a chattel mortgage on livestock, but under Uganda law,
chattel charges are available only against specific assets. Thus, progeny
of livestock, or livestock purchased after execution of a such a chattel
would not be covered. Since the banks would not be able to obtain conven-
tional collateral for lonrg term loans they were unwilling to assume the
full risk for the subloans inade by them.  Agreement was reached between
Government and the banks that in the event of a foreclosure and possible
loss, the banks would first apply any recovered assets tow.ards their 25
percent portion of the subloan. Also to improve their liquidity, they would
apply the first two repayments of principal from the sub-borrowers on an
equal basis (50-50) with UC3. The renmaining principal would then be amor-
tized on a pro-rata basis (25-75). Agreement to these lending terms was
reached during negotiations.



- 12 -
4.09      The terras of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Government and
UCB were agreed upon during negotiations, as well as an Adnministration Agree-
ment between UCB and the Participating Banks which set forth the policies
and terms of the lending program under the Project.
D. Procurement
4.10      International bidding would be required for the purchase of fencing
wire, tractors and vehicles by the ULI ranches. Other physical inputs re-
quired for ULI ranch development would be subject to competitive bidding. The
liwi±ited physical inputs required for the smaller commercial ranches would be
obtained from local commercial sources. There is adequate competition in
the supply of goods, both imported and local. Adequate facilities exist for
the servicing and maintenance of agricultural machinery and equipment. Pri-
vate contractors are available for construction of fences, roads, and water
supply facilities.
4.11      All purchases of livestock required for the Project would be sub-
ject to the approval of the Project Director. Since only limited numbers
of local cattle are regularly sold fromL the traditional sector within Uganda
(para 2.05), it is estimated that all bulls, about 70 percent of the breeding
females and approxiwately 45 percent of the feeder steers would be imported.
International bidding would not be appropriate for livestock procurement
since animals adapted to the environment of the type and quality required
can only be obtained from neighboring Kenya and Tanzania. Uganda and these
two countries are members of the East African Economic Community.  The num-
bers needed (about 40,0uo) are small in relation to the total cattle popu-
lation (18 million) of the countries involved. Established trading
channels exist for both local procurement and importation of cattle from
East African sources. Suchl irmportations have already been made and the
cattle do well.
E. 14arketing
4.12      The improved grades of fat stock produced from ranches participating
in the Project would be marketed locally, mainly to neet the increasing urban
demand for better quality meat. Currently, much of this demand is met by
imports from Kenya. The policy of ULI is to sell beef cattle liveweight to
butchers and traders on-ranch. Periodic sale days are publicized in advance.
Private ranchers sell their cattle either on-ranch or at established auction
rings.  These latter are being improved, particularly in the Project areas.
Transport costs to urban centers are borne by the traders.
4.13      Producer prices (liveweight) vary from district to district.  For
1966, the variation ran,jed from an average of Sh 173 paid per animal in
Karamoja to Sh 440 paid by butchers at the Iu!kono market in Buganda. The
current national average is Sh 273 per animal (US',38).  The liveweight sale
price of fat cattle from commercial ranches likely to participate in the



- 13 -
Project is currently oh 0.70 to Sh 0.75 (UEh,iO.l - 0.1) per pound (Sh 560
per fat steer). With the steadily increasing demand for breeding stock in
Uganda, sales of one to two and two to three-year old improved heifers are
likely to return Sh 500 to Sh 600 (Ur3$ 70 - 85) per head respectively over
the next five years.
4.14      There is a proposal for the establishment of a National Meat
Marketing Board. Its functions would be to control the processing, distri-
bution and internal and external marketing of meat, principally beef. These
functions could lead to national control of producer prices at levels which
could impair incentives to expand beef production. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that Government would maintain po'licies which wo-uld give
adequate incentives for commnercial beef producers to expand production.
4.15      Road, rail and water transport facilities are sufficient for the
movement of cattle into and within Uganda. East African Railways and Harbors
operates two cattle boats weekly on Lake Victoria between Tanzania and
Uganda. It has on order more refrigerated railway wagons, to be partially
financed under Bank Loan 428-3LA, to ensure minimum spoilage for future ex-
ports of Uganda's frozen meat. Ample haulage capacity exists to meet the
increase in production that would be generated under the proposed Project.
US-AID has provided ULI with four large cattle trucks. Private commercial
ranchers are served by a rapidly developing private trucking industry. Ade-
quate all-weather roads exist to the Project areas. Proceeds from IDA Credit
108-UG will further improve the road system in sub-areas 2 and 6 of the
Project (see iMap).
V. BENEFITS ANTD JUSTIFICATION
Direct Benefits
5.01      The principal direct benefits resulting from the beef ranching
project would be an increased production of quality beef, improved heifers
for breeding and feeder steers for fattening.  At full development, 4,500
breeding heifers and 10,700 improved feeder steers valued together at
L327,000 (USv 916,000) would be sold annually from Project ranches. The
increased annual output of beef is estimated at 1,000 short tons, cold dressed
weight, valued at approximately t 153,000 (Usa 427,000) per annum (Annex 11,
Table 3).
5.02      The benefits to participatinfr ranchers from investments made under
the Project are projected in Annexes 4 and 5.  'These expected results are
summarized below:



- i4 _
Category                                      Before      After Full
Development Development 2/
Breeding Ranch (45,000 acres)
Total Herd  (head)                               3,064          13,000
Cattle Sales (Head)                                429           3,118
Net Operating Income (i) 1/                     (5,211)         37,581
Herd Value (1)                                  64,355         263,395
Breeding/Fattening Ranch (3,200 acres)
Total Herd (Head)                                  264             880
Cattle Sales (Head)                                 33             167
Iet Operating Income (1) 1/                        465           2,920
lIerd Value (1)                                  5,560          17,614
Fattening Ranch (38,000 acres)
Total Herd (Ilead)                               5,143          15,000
Cattle Sales (Head)                              2,629           7,374
NVet Operating Income (f) 1/                    26,230          50,241
Herd Value (1)                                  66,912         181,032
1/   Before taxes.
2/ Seven years for breeding and breeding/fattening type ranches
and six years for fattening.
5.03      The financial rates of return before taxes over an estimated 20
year life of the Project range from 17 percent to over 20 percent for
ranches participating in the Project. The return to the economy of Uganda
discounted over the life of the ProJect, after allowing for the increased
administrative costs, would be aubout 17 percent (Annex 11, Tables 1 and 2).
5.04      The production of irproved grades of beef from Project ranches
would substantially reduce Uganda's requirements for the higher quality beef
now imported from Kenya. About f195,000 worth of this kind of meat is im-
ported annually with demand in urban centers increasing 7-8 percent per annum.
Wlile the main thrust of the Project would be towards import substitution,
the meat processing plants would be buyers of cull stock for processing into
tinned meat for export. Foreign exchange receipts from this source together
with the foreitn exchange savings achieved from local production of better
quality beef at full development would amount to about E200,000 per annum
net of annual foreign exchange outlays directly imputable to the Project.



- 15 -
Indirect Benefits
5.05      In addition to the benefits specified above, there would be cumu-
lative indirect benefits which are not quantifiable. The sale of improved
breeding stock from Project ranches would contribute to the upgrading of the
national herd. The demonstration of better management practices, improved
production and disease control techniques and the training of Ugandan person-
nel in livestock development leniding would be additional benefits accruing
to the economy. With Uganda's largely untapped pasture and climatic re-
sources for livestock production, these indirect benefits could be substantial.
The Project would also mobilize domestic savings for investment in a sector
of hijh priority for Uganda's long-term economic development.
VI. COINCLUSIONS AND RECOWMI2DATIONS
6.01      The Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US`3 million.  Sat-
isfactory rates of return would be realized both by the beneficiaries and by
the economy. The borrower would be the Government of Uganda. The Uganda
Conmmercial Baxn would act as the fiscal agent of the Government for adminis-
tration of the funds. The Credit would be about 60 percent of the total
Project cost. This is in accord with the recommendation of the Economic
Committee. The estimated foreign exchange component would be 100 percent
of the proposed Credit.
6.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) The Republic of Uganda would:
(i)  create a Project Committee whose composition and
functions would be satisfactory to IDA (para 4.01);
(ii) appoint a Project Director acceptable to IDA, with
responsibilities and upon terms and conditions satis-
factory to IDA. (paras 4.01 and 4.03);
(iii) relend the proceeds of the IDA Credit to be
utilized for beef ranching development to the
Uganda Commercial Bank with commercial banks
participating in these financing operations
(para 3.13);
(iv) cause ranching enterprises participating in the
Project to vaccinate against foot-and-mouth
disease, all cattle going on to or coming off
Project ranches, except those to be transported
directly to an abattoir for slaughter   (para 4.04);
and
(v) maintain policies which would encourage commercial
beef producers to expand production (para 4.14).



- 16 -
(b)  The Uganda Commercial Bank would:
(i)  estabiish and administer a Livestock Account to be
audited annually by an auditor acceptable to IDA
(paras 3.18 - 3.19);
(ii)  enter into an Administration Agreement with the par-
ticipating banks to define their functions and res-
ponsibilities under the Project, (para 4.09), under
wlich the UCB would cause the participating banks to:
(1) make available funds for lending to ranching
companies and ranchers as promptly as necessary
equal to 25 percent of approved ranch develop-
ment loans (nara 3.14);
(2) maintain a separate Livestock Account for Project
subloars and arrange for auditing of this account
by an accountant acceptable to IDA (paras 3b18 -
3.19);
(3) assure the provision of the short-term credit
necessary to complermient ranch development loans
(para 4.07); and
(4) excepting loans to ULI, make ranch development
loans exceeding the equivalent of US 100l,000
only after prior approval of IDA (para 4.07).
September 9, 1968



ANNEX 1
UGANTDA
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Banking System
A. Introduction
1.        The commercial banking system began in 1906 with the opening of a
branch at Entebbe by Nrational and Grindlays Bank Limited, London. Today there
are eight private commercial banks, one Government commercial bank, a corpor-
ation development bank, and a central bank. A good countrywide network of
banks adequately serves the important rural communities, and eight mobile
banks reach outlying towns. All usual banking functions are performed by the
commercial banks, though lending operations are closely controlled by Kampala
headquarters.
2.        Information on the amount of credit by sector is limited since only
recently has the Central Bank began to compile such data. From available
information it is apparent that agriculture receives less than 10 percent,
and that manufacturing and commercial trade receive the bulk of credit or
around 75 percent of the total, These ratios vary during the year when
seasonal processing and marketing of coffee and cotton, Ugandats principal
export crops and foreign exchange earners, require peak short-term financing.
B. Bank of Uganda
3.        The Bank of Uganda was created as a central bank in May 1966 and
began operations August 15, 1966.  Its head office is in Kampala and it has
no branch offices. It is capitalized at Sh 40 million (US$5,6 million) of
which Government has paid up Sh 13.3 million (US$1,9 million). Its foreign
exchange has increased from Sh 69 million (US$9.7 million) in September 1966
to Sh 284 million (US$40 million)  June 30, 1967.  Its first year of opera-
tions (September 1966 - June 1967S realized a net profit of Sh 2.8 million
(Us$390,000).
4h        Administration of the Bank is vested in a Board of Directors of
five to seven members plus a Governor and a Deputy Governor, These two
officials are responsible for the day-to-day business of the bank and are
answerable to the Board. They are appointed by the President, on the advice
of the Cabinet, for a term of five years and may be reappointed. The other
directors are appointed by the Minister of Finance for terms of three years
and may be reappointed. It is noteworthy that no director may be a member
of the National Assembly, a director or salaried officer of any banking or



ANNEX 1
Page 2
credit institution in Uganda, or a public officer. All present Board mem-
bers are from the private sector. The present Governor is a Ugandan of
recognized banking and financial experience. The Deputy Governor is second-
ed by the Bank of England. The general manager is also an expatriate banking
expert. The bank presently has 90 employees, many of whom were recruited
from other banks.
5.        The Bank of Uganda agreed during the mission's appraisal to act on
behalf of Government as fiscal agent for the proposed IDA credit provided it
could do so under the Bank of Uganda Act, 1966. However during negotiations
when it was determined that under the Public Finance Act only government
corporate bodies, such as the Uganda Commercial Bank and the Uganda Develop-
ment Corporation, could relend Government borrowings it was agreed to channel
the Credit through the Uganda Commercial Bank.
C. Commercial Banks
6.        The commercial banks are dominated by the "Big Three": Barclays,
D.C.O., National and Grindlays, and the Standard Bank. These three account
for 77 percent of total financial resources of the Uganda banking system.
The Uganda Commercial Bank (State-owned) holds about 10 percent, two Indian
banks I/about 8 percent, and three small banks 2/the other 5 percent of
total financial resources.
7.        The mission contacted most of the commercial banks and found them
to be receptive toward participation in the Project. At certain times of
the year somae banks import capital from the London money market to finance
seasonal peak demands, principally for cotton and coffee crop advances but
other avenues are also available to the banking system for channeling capital
into the country. Each of the British banks has an attached development and
finance corporation and two of the largest banks in the United States have
agency agreements with banks in Uganda.
8.        Participation of the commercial banks in the Project would ensure
the necessary portion of supplemental capital required to finance the Project,
would ensure availability of required short-term operating capital, and would
provide a mechanism for making and servicing the loans for beef ranching
development. Also, this arrangement would relieve Government of providing
any capital to finance the Project except an initial nominal advance for local
currency costs of Technical Services.
1/ Bank of India and Bank of Baroda.
2/ Algemene Bank Nederland N.V., Ottoman Bank and Commercial Bank of Kenya
and Uganda.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
D. Uganda Commercial Bank
9.        To play a more effective role in the economic life of the country,
the Uganda Commercial Bank (UCB) was formed in July 1965 as a successor but
with broadened functions to the Uganda Credit and Savings Bank, first orga-
nized in 1950. This is a Government bank with authorized capital of Sh 40
million (us$5.6 million) and paid-up capital of Sh 20 million (US$2.8 mil-
lion).    It  conducts all usual banking operations, is steadily eXpanding
its staff, is giving in-country and outside-of-country training for key
personnel, and is up-grading its branch offices. It has 10 branch offices
which gives a complete countrywide network of banks.
10.       The governing body of UCB is its Board of Directors composed of
five to nine members appointed by the Minister of Finance for terms of one
to three years. Daily administration and management is in the hands of the
Managing Director 1/ who also is Chairman of the Board. He is appointed by
the President on such terms and conditions as may be determined at time of
appointment.  A Permanent Secretary, directly under the Managing Director,
has a key administrative role and today is serving in both positions.
11.       UCB has experienced a substantial increase in its financial
resources during the first two years of its operations. Deposits more than
doubled from Sh 41 million in June 1965 (pre-reorganization date) to Sh 95
million in September 1967. This, in turn, enabled the bank to expand its
loan volume resulting in a net operating profit of around Sh 1.1 million
(US$154,000 annually. Reserves were accordingly increased from Sh 1.4
million to Sh 2.8 million (US$200,000-400,000). (See Table 2 for financial
statements).
12.       UCB continues to act as Agent of the Government for the operations
of the Development Loans Fund, which is a consolidation of the former African
Loans Fund and two grants from US-AID, In addition, the bank acts as Agent
for the disbursement of special Tea Scheme loans and Tobacco Barns loans.
Agency fees are received for administeringthese special government funds.
lJ Position vacant since August 1966 when the then Managing Director
transferred to the new Bank of Uganda as Governor.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
E. Credit Policies
13.       Credit policies of the commercial banks tend to be uniform.  The
bulk of their loan portfolios is short-term credit and a high proportion of
this is in overdrafts. Interest rates range from 7 to 9 percent per annum.
Interest on overdrafts is calculated on the daily balance and is payable
monthly. Financially strong agricultural cooperative unions borrow at 6.5
to 7 percent interest and primary cooperatives on-lend these funds to members
at 12 percent. Most banks make a commitment charge of 0.5 to 0.75 percent
for loans of three years or longer and grace periods are seldom granted.
Risk lending has been conservative and the repayment record has been good
for all banks.
1h.       Most of the ranchers/ranching companies participating in the Project
would hold their land under a long-term Government lease. Therefore a real
estate mortgage traditionally required by banks for long-term loans could not
be obtained. The only real collateral that could be given by a borrower
would be his livestock, which could be covered by a chattel mortgage. Ordi-
narily livestock chattel mortgages are acceptable for short-term credit but
have limitations for long-term finance because of continuous changes in herd
makeup.   Prospective participating banks indicated that this alone would not
be adequate security to carry the full loan risk. They consider that the
technical services aspect of the Project is important and desirable, but
believe that in view of their limited experience in the credit program
envisaged under the Project, some form of Government guarantee would be
necessary.



ANNA 1
Table 1
U G A N D A
BEEF RANCHING DEVELPMENT PROJECT
Consolidated Financial Statement
of All Commercial Banks, March 31, 1967
(L's million)
ASSETS
Notes and Coins                         7.0
Balances Due From Banks
Uganda                              34.8
Kenya and Tanzania                   0.7
Sterling Area                        h.1
Outside Sterling Area                0.5
Uganda Government Securities            1.7
Investments                           10.3
Bills Discounted                        5.9
Advances and Loans                   125.6
Fixed Assets                           9.7
Other Assets                            5.2
TOTAL                                   205.5
LIABILITIES
Deposits                             130.7
Balances Due to Banks
Uganda                               22.7
Kenya and Tanzania                   2.9
Sterling Area                       28.3
Outside Sterling Area                1.9
Bills Payable                           0.5
Other Loans                            0.7
Other Liabilities                     11.6
Subtotal                           199.4
CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Paid-up Capital                         4.8
Reserves                               1.3
Subtotal                             6.1
TOTAL                                   205.5
Source: Bank of Uganda, Monthly Statistical Report, March 1967.



ANEX 1
U 3 A N D Ai
BEi:F RANCHIN3 DEVELOPM5NT PROJECT
Financial Statement, 1966 and  1967
Uganda Coomercial Bank
(Sh'ooo)
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHUT                                                                     ONSOLIDATr:D PRl)rIT AND 13 SS ACCCUN 
September  30                                                           September  30
1966       1967                                                       1966            19-,
ASSETS                                                                             INCCME
Cash                                       8,636       6,157                       Interest                       4,699          5,852
Money at Call                             12,830      22,500                       Commissions                      142             35:9
5ov3rnment Treasury Bills                  6,987       4,218                       Agency Fees                      127            1.,1
Investments at Cost                        4,996       4,958                       Miscellareous                     64            1I
Deposits with Para-statal Bodies          19,723      37,500
Loans                                     39,262      33,o4                                                       5,0320
Real Estate and Equipment                  5,230       6,762
Xissc--llaneous                            1,433       4,951                      E;PAs
TOTAL                                     99,097    120,>50                       Interest                       1,353           2,292
Salaries                       2,230          2,'i1
:fficer ixpenses                 287            2/6
LIABILITIES                                                                        Property  cpenses                145c           192
Depreciation                    110             119
Current Deposit and Other Accounts        75,613      95,L4o                       ,eneral                          234            300
Uganda Government Funds                    2,105       2,037
Accounts Payable                            _            124                                                      4,400          6,076,
Less Expe1ses Recovered
Subtotal                             77,718     97,601                           from JLF                     530             530
3,070          5,
7',733RV,-35                                                                      NET P?O.'                      1,12            1,C'
3eneral Reserve Fund                         250         S00
Profit and Loss Account                      340         3>'8
Development Fund                             595       1,673
Praining Purid                               194        178
ftbtotal                              1,370       2,114,
TO TAL                                    99,097    120,450
SO1RCEs UCB Audited Annual Report.



ANNEX 2
UGANDA
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Uganda Development Corporation
A. Background
1.        The Uganda Development Corporation (UDC) is the major agency in the
public sector of the Ugandan econony. Because of the existence of numerous
local and foreign private companies operating in all fields in the country,
and because of the Government policy of "mixed economy" at that time, the
UDC wias created in 1952 as a Government corporation to operate as a commercial
company with the Government owning all the share capital. Today it has author-
ized capital of 1 8 million (US$22.4 million) of which L 6.4 million (Us$ 17.9
million) has been issued and fully paid by Government. This is equity capital
as opposed to loan capital, thus relieving UDC of interest and capital repay-
ments.
2.        UDC operates through subsidiary companies, i.e. for each new project
it forms a company to operate and expand it. In addition, there have been
certain industries which the Corporation found impossible to start and run
due to lack of capital and/or technical know-how. These are associate com-
panies in which UDC participates with other private companies. UDC's oper-
ations extend through 23 subsidiary and 10 associate companies.
3.        UDC pays taxes on its consolidated group profits, but since no
dividends are paid to the shareholder (the State), the group net profits
are ploughed back to finance further development.
B. Organization
4.       The Government through the Minister, Ministry of Commerce and
Industry, appoints the Chairman for an indefinite term and the 9 to 12
Board members for a term of two years. The Chairman of the Board is also
the Chief Executive and his office is divided into four sections:
(i) Development - dealing with new projects;
(ii) Investment Management - looking after subsidiary and associate
companies;
(ii) Finance and Accounts; and
(iv) Secretarial.
5.        UDCts Board appoints the boards of the subsidiary companies, which
deal with the operations of each company. The annual report and accounts of
the Corporation are tabled in Parliament once a year, during which time they
are debated.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
C. Management
6.        The head of UDC acts in a dual capacity:  first, as Chairman of
the Board of Directors, and second, as General Manager of the Corporation.
This may give rise to misgivings as to how one man can fulfill both functions
satisfactorily, sit effectively on the boards of all subsidiary and associate
companies, carry out the duties of Chief Executive and then be judge of his
own performance on the Board. A study of this problem recently made by a
Londcn consulting group points out that'the weakness inherent in the present
situation lies not in the combination of roles but in the structure of the
head office organization." The consultant's report makes detailed recommen-
dations on a reorganizational plan which would strengthen executive functions
at divisional level and thereby relieve the General Manager of many time
consuming details, e.g. interviewing applicants for messenger positions. It
is believed that many of the recommendations will be adopted and put into
operation.
D. Financial Condition and Operations
7.        Financially, measured by the growth of its assets and net earn-
ings, UDC has been successful (Tables 1 and 2).  Since its inception in
1952 UDC has putLthe development stream about  fl 10 million  (US$28
million). This has been derived about equally from Government equity capital
subscription and net profits. Annual net profit (before taxes) has ranged
from 7 to 15 percent of net assets during the last five years. Net profit
after taxes in 1965 and 1966 was around E 1 million (US$2,800,000) (Table
2). UDC's equity position of 60 percent remains strong.
E. Uganda Livestock Industries Ltd. (ULI)
Organization
8.        ULI, created in May 1966, is a wholly owned subsidiary company
of UDC. Its purpose is to develop and manage beef cattle and dairy enter-
prises. It had formed four subsidiary beef cattle ranching companies:
(i)   Bunyoro Ranching Co.;
(ii) Teso Ranching Co.;
(iii) Acholi Ranching Co.; and
(iv) Lango Ranching Co.
It is planned to organize a subsidiary dairy company to attract external
finance or equity capital.



ANNEK 2
Page 3
Administration
9.        The affairs of ULI are controlled by a Board of Directors appointed
by the main Board of UDC. The Chairman of UDC also is Chairman of ULI and
of the Boards for the four ranching companies. Members of these boards in-
clude some members of UDC's Board and representatives from the District Land
Boards with which ULI has long-term ranch leases. It has been the policy
to give nominal equity shareholdings in the ranching companies to local land
Boards. ULI has Managing Agency Agreementsl/with its subsidiary companies
under which it will employ all operating and management personnel of the
subsidiary ranching companies.
10.       A corporate structure for each ranch and a Managing Agency Agree-
ment would in practice be detrimental to the efficient running of the proposed
ranching development scheme for the following reasons:
(i)   no direct chain of control from UDC main Board through the
General Manager of UDG to the ULI Board. (He sits only as
Chairman of this Board);
(ii)  no direct chain of control from ULI Board through its
General Manager to the boards of its subsidiary companies.
(He is not a member of these boards);
(iii) the formation of separate subsidiary ranching companies is
administratively unwieldy, wasteful of management time; also
costly because of directors' fees and expenses, and legal,
audit and secretarial fees, estimated at as much as L 2,500
per year per company;
(iv)  the Managing Agency Agreement between ULI and a subsidiary
company does not give direct management control. A sub-
sidiary company may give instructions to "its owners" (ULI)
and in the last resort termination of agreement with "its
owners"; and
(v)   the General Managers of UDC and ULI do not have the authority
to run the subsidiary companies effectively and efficiently
though it is their responsibility to do so.
1/  Among other things, the Managing Agency Agreement provides that ULI will
be paid for all management, clerical and ranch labor, 2.5 percent of
gross livestock sales, commissions on insurance policies, commissions on
purchase of ranch supplies, and Sh 20,000 per year for miscellaneous
office expenses.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Financial Condition
11.       When ULI was created  in May 1966 as a holding company, it
acquired all the assets and liabilities of two ranches: Buniyoro Ranching
Company in operation since 1956 and Teso Ranching Company since 1965. As of
December 31, 1966, the financial investment and operations of Bunyoro showed
a cumulative loss of L 44,783; and Teso L 64,304.  Added to these amounts is
L 6,220 for the Acholi Ranching Company which began operations in August, 1966.
Thus, ULI and its subsidiary companies start out in 1967 with a gross cumu-
lative loss of 1 115,000 (US$ 322,000) (Table 3).  The consolidated balance
sheet at December 31, 1966 (Table 3) shows a distorted capital position, in
that UDC holds paid-up shares to the value of L 2 only, the rest of the
capital being contributed by wiay of loans and advances. Total sum owing to
UDC by ULI and subsidiaries is I 329,000, of which t 278,000 (87 percent) is
on loan account. If ULI is to prove acceptable to commercial investors and
creditworthy for commercial banking loans, considerable restructuring of its
financial resources will be required. This must include acceptance by UDC
that much of its investment in loans and advances is properly risk capital,
and, as such, should be reallocated to equity. Accumulated losses to date
(L 115,000) would appear to consist partly of normal losses which could be
expected in the early years of building up a herd, and partly to high manage-
ment costs and inefficient management. The part of the loss attributable to
the building up of a herd, estimated at L 70,000,should also be capitalized,
which would leave £ 45,000. This should be written off at the time of capi-
tal reconstruction, as should the item of f 19,50oi/ showing as goodwill for
the purchase of Bunyoro shares. It is suggested that in order to produce a
rational capital structure prior to further investment by UDC,IDA and the
commercial banks, it would be advisable for UDC's loan to be reallocated as
follows:
Lt 000
Written off against accumulated losses          45
Written off against goodwill                    19
Reallocated to equity                          265
32-9
On the basis of the above, a summarized balance sheet as at December 31, 1966
would be:
t ' 000       L '000
Assets
Current (other than livestock)                 9
Livestock                                    170
Fixed Assets                                 142
Cumulative loss                               70          391
Liabilities
Equity capital                               265
Accounts payable (external)                   24
Accounts payable (UDC subsidiaries)          102          391
1/ Represents the excess cost of Bunyoro Ranch Company shares acquired from
Agricultural Eaterprises Ltd., over their nominal value.



ANT\EX 2
Page 5
If, therefore, ULI's capital were restructured as proposed above, there then
would be a sound base from which to consider further finance for the proposed
development within the Project. Furthermore, to maintain this position as
the Project develops, all future investment by UDC should be in the form of
equity. Some adjustment might be necessary to allow for any change in the
position as at June 30, 1968.
Personnel
12.       Headquarters staff of ULI now includes general manager, development
manager, engineer, bookkeeper and small clerical staff. Each of the three
ranches now operating has a resident manager (two are expatriates) a book-
keeper, and in addition Bunyoro has an assistant ranch manager.
13.       Considering the importance of ULI's performance under the proposed
Project, it is necessary that a satisfactory corporate, administrative and
management structure be established which would give UDC through ULI
centralized policy-making functions and a direct administrative and manage-
ment relationship between one single corporate company and each ranch and,
further, that ULI would be recapitalized as a financially viable company.
During negotiations, it was agreed that ULIts recent restructuring of its
corporate, management and administrative structure was satisfactory to the
Association.  It Wan also agreed that UlT would be recapitalized satisfac-
torily to the Association no later than three months after the Credit
Agreement is signed.



ANNEX 2
Table I
U G A N D A
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consolidated Annual Balance Sheet
Uganda Development Corporation. 1962-1966
1962      1963       1964       1965      1966
(IEs million)
ASSETS
Cash                               108.1     168.2      519.2     368.8      303.0
Debtors, Deposits & Prepayments   350.6      476.6      892.0     953.7   1,231.9
Stocks and Stores                2,008.2   2,160.9   1,954.8   2,683.3   3,682.8
Associated Companies - shares,
debts, notes and loans-        1,015.8     948.6   1,449.3   1,379.3   1,660.6
SmallI Industries                   11.3      10.2       10.2      17.7      22.6
Loans                               19.8      13.0       39.4     271.1      260.6
Fixed Assets                     7,277.9   7,636.0   9,020.3  11,706.7  12,874.6
Intangible Assets                  569.1     505.6      387.9     313.8      277.9
TOTAL ASSETS                  11,360.8  11,919.1  14,273.1  17,694.4  20,314.0
LIABILITIES
Loans                               90.0     264.7      927.1   1,564.7   1,909.8
Bank Overdraft                   1,043.4     467.6      421.7     620.2   1,339.2
Deposits                           194.5     587.5   1,106.3   1,474.4   1,869.9
Creditors, Provisions and
Accrued Charges                  660.7     915.0      947.3   1,127.0   1,316.1
Deferred Liabilities                 1.3      11.1       29.3     870.7      830.5
Taxes                              379.1     496.2      489.2     938.9      982.0
TOTAL LIABILITIES              2,369.0   2,742.1   3,920.9   6,595.9   8,247.5
CAPITAL and RESERVES
Share Capital - Fully Paid       6,400.0   6,400.0   6,400.0   6,400.0   6,400.0
Capital Reserves                   622.2     754.2      759.2     634.9      844.3
Revenue Reserves:t
Specific and General             759.0     767.0      667.4     687.7      731.5
Unappropriated Profit            725.6     835.6   1 10.2 8   1 934.8   2,231.2
Net Assets (Shareiolders' Int.) 8,506.8   8,756.8   8, 69   9,657.4  10,207.0
Outside Shareholderst Interest    485.0      420.2   1,3P2.8   1 441.1   1 8,<9-5
TOTAL NET ASSETS               8,991.8   9,177.0  10,352.2  11,098UT  12,GoJ75
TOTAL                         11,360.8  11,919.1  14,273.1  17,694.4  20,314.0
Source:  UDC Annual Reports.



ANNEX 2
Table 2
U G A N D A
BEEF RA1iCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
Uganda Development Corporation, 1962-1966
1262   1961  1964    1965    1966
(IS 'ce)
Trading Profit                              1,255  1,344  1,850   2,490   2,593
Less:
Depreciation and Amortization            492    535    565      568     788
Interest on Loans and Overdrafts          96    108    150      206     346
Auditorts Remuneration and Expenses        5       6      9      10       11
Profit !/(before taxation)                    662    695  1,126   1,706   1,448
Less Taxes                                 288    355    465      611      468
Net Profit                                 374    340    661   1,095       980
Percent of Net Assets                   7.4    7.6   10.9    15.4   12.0
Source: UDC Annual Reports.



UGANDA
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Uganda Livestock Industries and Subsidiary Companies
Consolidated Balance Sheet                              Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
(XL)               (December 31, 1966)                  -     ()
ASSETS
Cash                                 6,183               Trading Loss for 1966               58,091
Accounts Receivable                   1,811              Depreciation                         14,431
Supplies                               486               Audit Fees                              375
Livestock                          170,200               Exp. of Increase of
178,680      Share Capital                        538
Buildings and Capital Works        111,795               Miscellaneous                            21
Vehicles, Tractors and Implements   21,059                                                                 73,456
Plant Machinery and Equipment        4,835                                                 Subsidiary
Office Equipment                       217                                           ULI   Companies
141,906
Formation Expenses                       48              Group Net Loss, 1966       a,108    68,348        73,456
Goodwill                             19,5oo
19,548    Group Losses Brought
Forward                    -      41,851       41,851
TOTAL                                           340,134                               5,108   110,199       115,307
LIABILITIES AND PROVISIONS
UDC - Holding Co.                   329,108
Subsidiary Companies               102,146
Accounts Payable                     23,603
Outside Shareholders                    582
Subtotal                                  455,439
CAPt TAL
Fully Paid Shares                         2                                                                         CDf
Lesis Accumulated Losses            115,307
Subtotal                                 (115,3o5)
TOTAL                                          340,134
Source: ULI Audited Annual Report.



ANNEX 3
UGANDA
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Animal Health
1.        In most parts of the African continent the development of the live-
stock industry has been impeded by the presence of a number of serious dis-
eases. Thus, until recent years, rinderpest epizootics have periodically
swept through the continent at times decimating animal populations. Conta-
gious pleuropneumonia (CBPP) has been equally as serious a disease as rinder-
pest. The tsetse fly, the vector of trypanosomiasis, has rendered vast areas
of potential grazing lands uninhabitable for cattle. Foot-and-mouth disease
(FMD), is widespread and represents a major hindrance to international trade
in livestock and livestock products. It must therefore assume increasing im-
portance where production is geared for export. The prevalence of a variety
of external parasites particularly ticks and the associated tick-borne dis-
eases have generally precluded the introduction of exotic breeds.
2.        In Uganda the success that has been achieved in controlling animal
diseases has removed a major obstable to the development of a viable live-
stock industry.
3.        Rinderpest is confined to the north and northeast provinces of
Uganda. More than 600,000 cattle are vaccinated each year to maintain a
barrier zone of resistant animals and protect cattle further south.
4.        Strong government efforts with help from FAO and US - AID are being
made to eradicate CBPP, including blood testing, elimination of reactorss
restricted movement and widespread vaccination. Mobile laboratories are
operated from the Animal Health Research Center at Entebbe to assist in this
work and more than 500,000 vaccinations are carried out each year. Only
cattle destined for slaughter can be moved out of Karamoja and then only by
special permit. Such cattle are first held in quarantine for blood testing
and vaccination.
5.        FMD is endemic in the main cattle areas of the traditional sector,
but is seldom serious in its effect on local unimproved cattle. Outbreaks
are controlled by quarantine which restrict stock movement and disrupt the
flow of trade cattle. Vaccination of more productive cattle on ranches is
carried out on a limited scale only due to the present high cost of the
vaccine. The production of vaccines at a considerably reduced cost is the
subject of research at the Wellcome Institute for Research on FMD in Nairobi,
Kenya.
6.        A special Tsetse Control Division of the Department of Veterinary
Services is responsible for the control of the tsetse fly. Since 1906, there
have been three major incursions of tsetse fly into Uganda; two from the



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Sudan and one from Tanzania, and as a result, cattle were denied the use of
some of the best grazing lands in Uganda. Control measures were inaugurated
in 1947, and some 11,000 square miles have been reclaimed. A program to
reclaim a further 3,200 square miles during the next five years is in progress.
This will be carried out in five separate schemes, the largest of which will
consist of approximately 1,000 square miles in Ankole, between the Mbarara/
Masaka road and the Tanzania border. A consolidation belt of settlers will
be established to prevent reinvasion from Tanzania. Thecverall cost of
reclamation is estimated at approximately Sh 14 per acre, so that the program
at present envisaged is estimated to cost the Government £ 1.43 million
(US$3.9 million).
7.        A variety of ticks occur and act as vectors for a group of livestock
diseases, of which the most important is East Coast Fever. It is considered
that losses from this disease seriously limit the rate of increase of the
national herd. Fortunately, ticks responsible for transmitting this disease
can be effectively controlled by routine dipping of cattle every five days
even where infestations are heavy. An adequate allowance has been made in
the operating expenses for cattle on project ranches to be routinely dipped.
Government is planning a substantial program of tick control for the purpose
of controlling East Coast Fever and has given this high priority in its live-
stock development program.
8.        Most of the more cammon diseases of livestock, usually found in
other areas of the world, also occur in Uganda, but control of the more
important diseases already referred to has rightly received the highest
priority. Vaccination campaigns involving hundreds of thousands of animals
are a routine annual feature of disease control carried out by the Veterinary
Department. Government policy is to train more technicians for this work,
so that the professional veterinarian can devote more time and attention to
problems of animal production.



Table I
UGANDA
BIEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MOMD7 1. BMReNo RANCHI - LARGE SIZE
(9,000 Animal Units)
ITEM                   Before                                             YEARS
DeveloPment     1         2          3         4         5          6         7       8-20
Herd Composition (No.)
Breeding Cowe                      1,000     1,038     2,038      3,690     4,504     4,600     4,600      4,600     4,600
Breeding Bulls                        35        35        68        125       150       155        155       155       155
Weaners (1 Yr.)                      600       623     1,325      2,583     3,378     3,450      3,450     3,1,5O    3,450
Heifers (1-2 Yrs.)                   300     1,300     1,311      1,162     1,291     1,689      1,725     1,725     1,725
Heifers (2-3 Yrs.)                   282     1,282     2,252      1,770     1,116     1,239      1,621     1,656     1,656
Steers (1-2 Yrs.)                    300     2,300     1,312        663     1,292     1,689      1,725     1,725     1,720;
Steers (2-3 Yrs.)                    282       282     2,222      1,271       630       326        -         -
Steers (3-4 Ire.)                    265       265       265     1,488        400       253        -         -          -
TOTAL                              3,064     7,125    10,793    12,752    12,761    13,401    13,276    13,311    13,311
ANIMAL UNITS                       2,332     6,370     9,000      9,000     9,000     9,000      9,000     9,000     9,000
DEATHS (No.)
Cows                                  60        62       102        185       180       184        186       184       180,
Bulls                                  2         2         3          6         6         6          6         6         6
Heifers (1-2 Yrs.)                    18        48        b1         46        52        68         69        69        69
Heifers (2-3 Yrs.)                    17        47        88         77        45        50         65        66        66
Steers (1-2 Yrs.)                     18        78        41         33        52        34         35        35        35
Steers (2-3 Yrs.)                     17        17        78         42        18         7         -         -         -
Steers (3-4 Yrs.)                      8         8         8        37          8         5         -         -         -
TOTAL                                140       262       361       426        361       354        359       360       360
SALES (No.)
Cull Cows                            141       3146      290        525       649       662       66?        662       662
Cull Bulls                             5         5        10         18        22        22         22        22        22
Cull Heifers                          26        27       120        169       107       119        156       159       159
Surplus Heifers (3 Yrs.)              -         -          -         -         39       226       554        585       585
Steers (1-2 Yrs.)                     -         -          -         -        914     1,655     1,690      1,690     1,690
Steers (2-3 Irs.)                     -         -        656        829       359       319         -
Steers (3-4 Yrs.)                    257       257       257     1,451        392       248         -         -         -
TOTAL                                429       435     1,333     2,992      2,482     3,249      3,084     3,118     3,118
PURCHASES (No. )
Heifers (1-2 Yrs.)                    -      1,000     1,000       500         -         -           -        -          -
Heifers (2-3 Yrs.)                    -      1,000     1,000        500        -          -          -        -          -
Bulls                                  7        40        70        49         33        28         28        28        28
Steers (1-2 Yrs.)                     -      2,000 1c000             -         -         -           -        -         -
TOTAL                                  7     4,o40     3,070     1,049         33        28         28        28        28
TECHNICAL COEFFICINTS (%)
Mortality                              6         6         5          5         4         4          4         4         4
Calves Weaned                        60         60        65        70         75        75        75         75        75
Cou and BulaCul d                   15         15        15        15        15         15        15         15        15
Plifere Cullrd                       10         10        10        10         10        10        10         10        10
SALES                (Whd)
Cull Cowe              28         3,948      4,088     8,120    14,700    18,172    18,536    18,536    18,536    18,536
Cull Bulls             45            225       225       450        810       990       990        990       990       990
Cull Heifers           20            520       5b0     2,400     3,380      2,140     2,380      3,120     3,180     3,180
Surplus Neifsrs,       30             -         -         -          -      1,170     6,720    16,620    17,550    17,550
Steer. (1-2 Tre.)      16             -         -         -          -       ,624    26,480    27,040    27,o40    27,060
Steers (2-3 Ire.)      24             -         -    15,744    19,896       8,616     8,112         -         -
Steers (3-4 Ire.)    28-34         7,196     7.196     7.196    43.530    12,544      8,432         -         -
TOTAL                             I1,889    12,049    33,910    82,316    58,256    71,650    66,306    67,296    67,296
PIQAUR 11??WCD Zlt LOUN( 
Bulls                                560       7                            2,640     2,240      2,240     2,240     2,240
Mr &ALMS                         -11,329  12,049    33,910    82,316    55,616    69,410    64,066    65,056    65,056
OPRATMO IIENS                    16,'540    21M       26,000    28,315    27,475    27,475    27,475    27,475    27,675
NITmO,I        3                  SsUl)  (11,072)    5,910    54,001    28,141    41,935    36,591    37,581    37,581



ANNEX 4
Table -2
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
t)D2L 2. BRUMMNE/FATTEXING RANCH - MELIUM SIZE
(640 Animal Units)
ITEM                     Before                                                 YEARS
Development      1           2          3          4          5          6           7          8-20
HED COMPOSITION  (No.)
Breeding Cows                         90         95        146        227        256        256         256        256         256
Bulls                                  3          4          5          8          9           9          9          9            9
Weaners (1 Yr.)                       54         57         95        159        192         192        192        192         19?
Hei-fers (1-2 Yrs.)                   25        127         78         47         79          96         96         96          96
Heifers (2-3 Yrs.)                    23         73        122         75         45          76         92         92           92
Steers (1-2 Yrs.)                     25        127        129         98         80          96         96         96          96
Steers (2-3 Yrs.)                     23        123        122        125         95          77         92         92          92
Steers (3-4 Yrs.)                     21         22         97         94         98          71         38         44          88_
TOTAL                               264         628        798        833        850         873        871        877         877
ANIMAL UNITS                         200        374        566        618        604        629         639        640I        640
DEATHS  (No.)
Cows                                   5          6          7          9         10          10         30         10          10
Bulls                                 -           1          -          1          -           1         -           I           -
Heifers (1-2 Yrs.)                     2          5          3          2           3          4          LI         4            I
Heifers (2-3 Yrs.)                     1          3          6          3          2           3          L          4I
Steers (1-2 Yrs.)                      2          5          8          3           3          L          4          LI
Steers (2-3 Yrs.)                      1          4          7          5          8           4 L                   3            3
Steers (3-4 Yrs.)                      1          1          2          1          2           1          1          1           1
TOTAL                                 12         25         P9         24         24          27         26         27          26
SALES  (No.)
Cull Cows                             10         11         .7         26         29          37         37         37          37
Cull Heifers                           2          2         11          8          L           7          9          9           9
Surplus Heifers                       -          -          -          -           -         19          32         32          3?
Cull Bulls                             1          2          1          1          1           1          1          1           1
Steers (2-3 Yrs.)                     -          22        2P          22         20          35         45         45 LI
Steers (3-4 Yrs.)                     20         21         35         93         96          70         37         43          I3
TOTAL                                 33         58       1H5         150        150        169         161        167         167
PURCHASES  (No.)
Bulls                                 -           2          :,                    3           1          2         2            2
Heifers (1-2 Yrs.)                    -         100        59                      -          -          -          -
Heifers (2-3 Yrs.)                    -          50         -          -
Steers (1-2 Yrs.)                     -         100        120         50         -           _          _          _           _
Steers (2-3 Yrs.)                     -         100                                     -                           -
TOTAL                                 -         352        '           90           3          1          2          2            2
TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS (%)
Mortality                              6          6          5          4           4          4          4          4           4
Calves weaned                        60          60         65         70         75         75          75         75          75
Cows  and bulls culled                12         12         12         12         12          15         15         15          15
Heifera culled                        10          -          -          -           -          -          -          -           -
SALES              (Li .)
Cows                 28             280         308        476        728        812      1,036      1,036      1,036        1,036
Cull Heifers         20              40          40        220        160         80        140        180         180         180
Bulls.               45               45         90         L5         L5         45         45          45         45          45
Surplus Heifers    30                 -          -          -          -          -         570         960        960         960
Steers (2-3 Yrs.)  25                 -        550         500        550        500        875      1,125      1,125        1,125
Steers (3-4L Yrs.)  28              560         588      2.660      2,604      2,688      1,960      1,092      1,204        1,204
TOTAL                               925      1,576      3,901      4,087       4,125      4,626      4,438      4,550        4,550
PURCHASES NOT FINANCED IN LOAN                                      (   )
Bulls                                 -          -          -         320        240         80        160         160         160
Steers (1-2 Yrs.)                     -          -          -         750         -           -          -          -           -
NET SALES                            925     1,576       3,901      3,017      3,885      4,546      4,278       4,390       4,390
OPERATING EXPENSES                  460      1,030       1,167      1,348      1,470      1,470      1,470       1,470       1,470
NET OPERATING INCOME                465         546      2,734      1,669      2,415      3,076       2,808      2,920       2,920



ANNEX 4
UGANDA                                       Table 3
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MODEL 3 - FATTENING RANCH - LARGE SIZE
(7,500 Animal Units)
ITEM            Before                                              Y E A R S
Development      1         2          3         4          M         6         7          8-20
Herd Composition (No.)
Steers (2-3 Yrs.)           2,433        7,600     7,600      7.600     7,600     7,600      7,600     7,600     7,600
Steers (3-L; Yrs.)           2,710       2,347     7,372      7,372     7,410     7,5L6      7,486     7,486     7,486
TOTAL                       5,143        9,94t7   lL,,972    14,972    15,010    15,146    15,086    15,086    15,086
ANIMAL UNrrS                2,786        5,450     7,)466     7,486     7,555     7,573      7,543     7,5h3     7,543
DEATHS (No.) 1/
Steers (2-3 Yrs.)               86         228       228        190       154       114       1i1        114 1414
Steers (3-4 Yrs.)               81          70       221        18L       1)8       113        112       112       112
TOTAL                         167          298        It49     374        302       227        226       226       226
SALES (No.)
Steers (3-4 Yrs)            2,629        2,277     7,151     7,188      7,262     7,l1ko     7,37h     7,374     7,374
PURCHASES (No.) 2
SteerE (2-- Yrs.)           2,000        7,600     7,600      7,600     7,600     7,600      7,600     7,600     7,600
Mortality(%)                     6           6         6          5         IJ        3          3         3          3
SALES (r)
Steers (3-4 Yrs.)          73,612       63,756   200,228   201,460   203,336   208,320   206,472   206,472   206,472
PURCHASES NOT FINANCED IN
LOAN
Steers (2-3 Yrs.)           34,000         -     129,200   129,200   129,200   129,200   129,200   129,200   129,200
NET SALES                  39,612       63,756    71,028    72,260    74,136    79,120    77,272    77,272    77,272
OPERATING EXPENSES         13,382       25,000    27,871    27,871    27,031    27,031    27,031    27,031    27,031
NET OPERATING INCOME       26,230       38,756    43,157    44,389    47,105    52,089    50,241    50,241    50,241
1/  Based on steers being on ranch on average of one-half year.
2/ Unimproved steers purchased from traditional sector.



|    |    >   §   _   N   .)  Ri  4 UR i A/ e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S  -  s0 No Nl N    0<e 8E¢|   
t 53 % t  1  omE ^      8@o@R2R  2    R    8@              @U@08@  83sR2°n                                    t   ts      W       R  S   r   ^            0  g   |        | 0  n    a  0, *0  -;
1                                                                                                                          21   nb   =t    t   z  tH- >    w*t **^~<*t*S*-iE * ',iz.8 1  lE 6 5 = 55 > Zi 5'A3 '
-  9i  2+>o  1w  ==   o<:o  [ii°  N °2   ZZ  2FS0  3;     U°P 
it]| | 2  °q>6b=                                 @W               8                       e  X             X          <                                     >  S                   S  5  5  ]  i  s-~~~~'T 
n 0   15 Z Y   W y 2 rX  3 5   3 i1  0; 3  <    33  e "  f v 2 zw>g *  b  :   @ :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'4



ANx11 5
Table 2-A
UGAN
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. RANCH INVESTMENTS AND OPERATING EXPENSES
MODEL 2 - BREEDING AND FATTENING RANCH - MEDIUM SIZE
Number of Ranches                 50
Size of Herd            s        875 animals
Animal Units            s        640
Breeding Cows                    256
Average Size of Ranch  X       3,200 acres
Per Ranch
Unit
Unit    Quantity      Cost           Total Cost
T_7          (3)         (us$)
RANCH INVESTMENTS
Physical Inputs
Internal Tracks                Miles         10         10          100         280
Small Valley Dam                No.           1        600          600       1,680
Fencing                         Miles          5       120          600       1,680
Spray Race and Yard 1/         No.           1/2    1,000           500      1,400
House                           No.            1       200          200         560
Subtotal
Livestock
Bulls                          No.            6         80          L80       1,344
Heifers 1-2 Yrs.               No.          150         17        2,550       7,140
Heifers 2-3 Yrs.                No.          50         25        1,250       3,500
Steers 1-2 Yrs.                 No.         200         15        3,000       8,400
Steers 2-3 Yrs. 2/             No.          100         17        1,700      h,760
Subtotal                                                    8,980      2 5, 144
TOTAL                                              -         -    L 10,980   $ 30,7h4
OPERATING EXPENSES                       FIRST YEAR                FULL DEVELOPMENT
Rent  3/                                     80                           80
Labor  1                                    408                          552
Dipping  5/                                 187                          320
Veterinary Costs  6/                        165                          290
Maintenance  7/                             141                          158
Subtotal                                                      I 1=0
Contingency (5%)  9/                                                       70
TOTAL                                     1,030                        1,h70
1/   Two ranches share one spray race and yard.
2/   Purchases from loan of 2-3 year old steera for Year 1 only.
3/   49 year lease at Sh 0.50 per acre subject to reriew after five years.
Z/   Headman, laborer, and three herdsmen increasing to five in Year 2.
k/   Ten shillings per animal unit annually at five day intervals.
C/   Minerala, vaccinea and medicines.
7/   Five per cent of capital coat of tracks, water supply, fencing and buildings.
9/   Includes provision for cost of FED vaccination.



ANNEX 5
Table 3-A
UGANDA
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. RANCH INVESTMENTS AND OPFRATING EXPENSES
MODEL 3 - FATTENIN(G hANCH - LARGE SIZF
Number of Ranches                 I 1
Size of Herd             X   l5,0o0 animals
Animal Units             .   7 ,So0
Average Size of Ranch  t   38,000 acres
Per Ranch
Unit     Total Cost
Unit        Quantity       Cost   (i)
RANCH InVSTENTS                                                   TET
Physical Inputs
Roads
Internal                       Miles            3            75       225        630
Tracks                         Mi2es           11             6        66         185
Water
Borehole                       No.              1         2,500    2,5a'       7,000
Piping                         Miles            2½          800    2,nnn        5,60(
Storage Tanks                  N .              3           250       750       2,100
Troughs                        No.             12           100    1,2, y       3,360
(iEludes posts already
on ranch)                     Miler           36          lCO    3,600         10,080
Spray Race and Enoine          No.              1           900       90n         2,52'>
Machirery
Plough                         No.              1           100       100           280
Miscellaneous tools             -               -            -        100           280
Buildings for hanch Labor    No.               20            60    1,200          3,360
Subtotal                                                     12,64i1       35,395
Steers, (2-3 Yrs.)             No.          7,600            17  129,200       361,760
TCTAL                                  -               -           -   Ml4l,81A1    $ 397,155
OPERATING EXPENSES                       First Year             Full DeveJopsnrpt
( t)                      ( L)
Rent  1/                                      950                        950
Ranch Management  2/                        4,300                      4,300
Labor  3/                                   5,866                      6,864
Dipping  4/                                 2,160                      3,000
Veterinary Costs  5/                        2,304                      3,200
Transport and Fuel                          1,500                      1,500
Maintenance  6/                             2,030                      2,030
Other Expenses                                hOO                        4&00
Headquarters Costs  4/ l,300                                           3.500
Subtotal                             23,810                     25,7144
Contingency (5%) I/                         1,190                      1,287
TOTAL                                      25,000                     27,031
1/  99-year lease at Sh 0.50 per acre subject to review after five years.
2/  Salaries, medical and gratuity for ranch manager and assistant manager.
3/  Headman, herdsmen (35 rising to 49), general hands plus hl special security
constables.
d/ Eight shillings per animal unit annually.
5/ Minerals, vaccines and medicines.
6/ Five percent of capital costs of roads, water supply, fencing and buildings.
7/ Will be reduced beginning Year 5 by the discontinuance of the Development
Manager for the ULI ranches.
8/  Includes provision for cost of FIMD vaccination.



ANNEX 5
UGANDA                              Table -A
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RANCH rNVESTMENTS
Model 1         Model 2         Model 3
Investment Category                             Breeding/
Breeding       Fattening        Fattening       Total      Dollar           Foreign EXchange
Ranches   )    RancheB (50      Ranches (1)    Cost         Equivalent      C
(z)            (E)              Mt)       (E '000)      FUgy '10005)              OOU$'0)
Physical Irputs
Roads - Firebreaks                  15,800            5,000            291           21          59            25        15
Water Supply                        59,750           30,000          6,450          96          269            L5       121
Fencing                             32,000           30,000          3,600           66         185            30        56
Spray Races/Yards                   11,000           25,000            900          37          1(1            70        73
Ranch Buildings                     26,625           10,000          1,200           38         106            22        23
Machinery and Tools                 24,325              -              200          2Lt          67           100        67
Land Survey                         19,000              -               -           19           53             -        _
Subtotal                         188,500          loo,o00         12,6[l         301          8L3            42       355
Breeding Cattle
Bulls                               63,60o           2L,000             -           88          246           100       246
Heifers                            525,000          190,000             -          715        2,002            75     1,501
Subtotal                         588,600          214,ooo             -          803        2,2L,8           78     1,74t7
Feeder Steers                      225,000          235,000        1,4,200          56        1,8!.°           L5        743
Total Ranch Development             1,002,100          549,000        h1,tlb        1,693       Lb,7b0            60     2,84S5
Technical Services                        _                                            123         345            I5       155
Total Project Cost                        -                _                        1,816        5,o85            59     3,000



UGANDA
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
B. PROJECTFD CSK' POSITION AND A:NNUAL HERD VALUE
MODEL 1 - BREEDiNG RANCH - LAR2E SIZE
CATEGORY                              Before                                                          Y E A R S
Development        1          2         3          4          5          6          7          8         9          10
( C )
Net Sales                                      11,329       12,049    33,910    82,316    55,616    69,410    64,066    65,056    65,056    65,056            65,056
Operating Expenses                             16,5L0       2LI,121    28,000    29,315    27,1075    27,475    27,475    27,475    27,475    27,475          27,475
Net Operating Incme                           (5,2`1       i2,07?      0,910    514,001    20,1141    4',935    36,591    37,581    37,581    37,581         37,581
Debt Service  1/                                  -          3,239      ',906    12,022     1,02 7    33,3?    37,402    35,265    33,128    30,991           28,918
Balance After Debt Service                      5,2I1)     15,361      2,996    41,972    1F,314        2,396       (B11)    2,316    4,1453       6,590       8,663
Rancher's Contribution  2/                        -        20,55R   l'c,5142      L,91L        -          -          -          -          -         -           -
Rancher's Net Cash Position                    (5,211)      30,910    17,536'   36,955    15, 14        2,396       i911)    2,316      4,453      6,590       8,663
Total Herd Value  3/                          64,355      129,72r   211, L0   267,013   259,771    267,236   262,695   263,395   263,395   263,395    263,395
Incremental Net Cash Position 4/                  -        (3r),7'T   '1?,3?7    12,1-90    20,520      7,607     (4,1400)    7,527     9,664    11,801       13,874
Cumulative Net Cash Position                      -30,708; (, 3, 'L35              (R36    19I,650    27,296    22,996    30,1423    140,087    51,'88        65,762
1/  Average loan of    f 160,336 would be 60 per cent of total ranch invest-ent cos-.  0aynent terms based on 14-year grace oeriod (Years 1-4),
six equal principal repayments (Years 5-10), and eight oer cent ±nterest ner annur.
2/  Twenty per cent of total investment cost in -ash, labor ard rnaterials.
3/ Valued at constant prices.
4/ Incremental over pre-development value.
. w



UGANDA
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
B. PROJECTED CASH POSITION AND AN4TJAL HERD VAUJE
MODEL 2 - BREEDDIG/FATTENING RANCH - MEDIUM SIZE
Category                          Before                                                          YE AR S
Development        1          2         3          4          5         6          7         8          9          10
( E )
Net Sales                                       925         1,576      3,901     3,017      3,885     4,546      4,278     4,390      4,390      4,390     4,390
Operating Expenses                             460          1,030      1,167     1,348      1,470     1,470      1,470     1,470      1,470      1,470     1,470
Net Operating Incone                            465           5b6      2,7Th     1,669      2,41S     3,076      2,808      2,920     2,920      2,920     2,920
Debt  Service  1/                                -            240        592       703        703     2,166      2,049      1,932     1,815      1,698     1,587
Balance After Debt Service                     465            306      2,14i2      966      1,712       910        759        988     1,105      1,222     1,333
Rancher's Contribution  2/                       -          1,502        694       -          -         -          -          -         -          - 
Rancher's Net Cash Position                     465        (1,196"    1,4LL8       966      1,712       910        759        988     1,105      1,222     1,333
Total Herd Value  3/                         5,560         11,7?3    15,912    17,303    17,606    17,669    17,51T1    17,61h    17,614    17,614    17,614
Incremental Net Cash Position  h/                -         (1,661)       98'       501      1,2i:7      445        296        523       640        757        868
Cumulative Net Cash Positimn                     -         (1,661)      (678)     (177)    1,070      1,515      1,809      2,332     2,972      3,729     4,597
1/  Average loan of    E 8,728 would be 80 per cent of total ranc~h invcstment cost.  Payment terms based on h-year grace period (Years 1-4),
six equal principal repayments (Years 5-10), and eight Der cent interest per annucm.
2/  Twenty per cent of total investment cost.
3/ Valued at constant prices.
i/ As compared with rancher's net cash position before development.
lbU



UGANDA
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
B. PROJECTED CASH POSITION AND ANNUAL HERD VALUE
MODEL 3 - FATTENING RANCH - LARGE SIZE
Category                         Before                                                         Y E A R S
Development       1         2          3         4         5          6         7          a         9          10
( r )
Net Sales                                   39,612       63,756    71,028    72,260    74,136    79,120    77,272    77,272    77,272    77,272         77,272
Operating Expenses                          13,382       25,000    27,871    27,871    27,031    27,031    27,031    27,031    27,031    27,031         27,031
Net Operating Income                        26,230       38,756    43,157    L-,389    U7,lo5    52,099    50,241    50,2481    50,241    50,241        50,241
Debt Service  1/                               -           8,350     8,889     9,n7f     ;,079   27,983    26,870    24,958    23,446    21,933         20,464
Balance After Debt Service                  26,230       34,806    34,263    35,311    38,027    2l,106    23,771    25,283    26,795    28,308         29,777
Rancher's Contribution  2/                     -         27,138      1,180            -          -              -         -          -         -           -
Rancher's Net Cash Position                 26,230        7,218    33,088    35,311    38,027    24,106    23,771    25,283    26,795    28,308         29,777
Total Herd Value  3/                        66,912      130,800   179,66k   179,66L8  181,320   181,752   181,032   181,032   181,032   181,032    181,032
Incremental Net Cash Position  I/                        19,012)    6,356      9,081    11,797    (2,121)   (2,459)       (947)      565     2,078       3,547
Cumulative Net Cash Position                   -        (19,012)  (12,15L8   (3,073,    8,724       6,600     4,141      3,194     3,759     5,837       9,384
1/  Average loan of    E 113,473 would be 80 per cent of total ranch investment cost.  Payment terms based on 4-year grace period (Years 1-4),
six equal principal repayments (Years 5-10) and 8 per cent interest Per annum.
2/ Twenty per cent of total investment cost in cash, labor and materials.
3/ Valued at constant prices.
I;/ As compared with rancher's net cash position before development.
w1



ANNEX 6
UGANDA
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECTED PHASING OF RANCH INVESTMENT COSTS AND IDA DISBURSEMENTS
Category                                    1                       Y E A R S                                 Total
A. Ranch Investment Costs (L)
LarWe-size Breeding Ranch
Ranch Plans Initiated                        2            1              2           -             -             5
Physical Inputs                            55,180        47,810        65,290      20,220          -          188,500
Livestock                                 150,400       200,400       262,840     150,120       49,8h0        813,600
Medium-Size Breedin /Fattening Ranch
R-a=nch  ln  Initiated                       10           15            15           10             -5
Physical Inputs                            12,000        26,000       30,000       24,000        8,000        100,000
Livestock                                  63,100       121,350       134,700     103,150       26,700        449,000
Fattenin Ranch
-anch IPans initiated                        1                           -           -             -             1
Physical Inputs                             6,741         5,900          -           -             -           12,641
Livestock                                 129,200          -             -           -             -          129,200
Subtotal  - Physical Inputs                  73,921       79,710         95,290      44,220        8,ooo        301,141
Subtotal  - Livestock                       342,700       321,750       397,540     253,270       76,540      1,391,800
TOTAL                                           416,621       401,460       492,830     297,490       84,540   E 1,692,941
B.  IDA Disbursements (us$)
Ranch Subloans  l/                        69J,924       674,453       827,954     499,783      142,027      2,844,141
Technical Services                         45,000      i43,000         22,000      20,000       25,000        155,000
TOTAL (rounded)                                 745,000       718,000       850,000     520,000      167,000   $ 3,000,000
/ Constitute 60 per cent of total ranch investmnnt cost.



UGANDA
BGKF RANCHING DEVELOP1931Y  PROJC:r
PROOJECT3D CASH FLOW - UONDA COhMERCIAL BANK, LIVS5TOCK ACCOUNI
(us$ wn)
RY 3A R S
1            2            3            4             5            6            7            8             9           10            11           12           13            14           15            16
CASH INFLOW
IDA Food. for
Original Lo-n                                        700.0         675.0        828.o        500.         112.0            -            -                          -            -             -            -             -            -             -n
Technical Serviceo                                    45.0          W3.0         22.0         20.0          25.1                               -                          -            -            -                    -            -             -
Interest Receipts 1/
Original Lonae                                           -          46.9         91.h        146.2         179.8        173.8        165.3        1L1.3         113.7         86.5          58.3         32.3         13.7           5.7            -
Sub"qwe.t Loan- -                                                     -                                       -            -           8.9         22.3          44.6         71.3          98.0        125.0        146.2         158.8        159.9         158.3
Repament of Principal 2/
Original Loans                                           -            .            -             -         134.7        203.1        337.7        bO.17         127.1        112.4         406.7        287.3        119.9          84.o            -            -
Subosquent Loan                                          -            -                                                                                                       22.4         56.3         112.6        180.0         251.2        328.9         378.1
Governmnt *drancce  3/                                   33.0          2.7                                                                 -            -             -                         -             -            -             -            -             -
Liosotock Account (Revolving)                              _-                         -                         -         134.7         2G3.1        337.7        L0h.?         427.1        161.8        433.0         369.9        269.9         305.2        298.9
TO 0r I L                                                  778.0         767.6       90l.1         666.2        481.5         517.9        715.3        906.9         990.1      1.050.0      1,084.1         990.2        829.7         769.6        794.0         835.6
CASH 0UTFLOW
Original Loa.                                           700.0        675.0        828.0         500.0        142.0            -            -            -            -                    -            -                  -              -            -             -
Subouqent Loans                                            _      -            -             -                  -         134.7         203.4        337.7        404.7         127.1        464.8         433.0        369.9        269.9         305.2         298.9
Technical Service.a  /                                   72.0         81.0         63.0          61.0         69.0         31.0          31.0         3L.0         34.0          31.0         34.0          34.0         34.0         31.0          31.0          316.0
Adein,istration Coot. S/                                  6.0          6.0          6.o           6.0          6.7          4.0           1.0          L.0         14.            4.0          4.0           4.0          4.0           4.0          1.0           1.0
Serrico Charge to rIA (0.75%)                              -           5.6          11.0         17.1         21.2         22.5          22.5         22.5         22.5          22.5         22.5          22.3         22.1          21.8         21.6          21.1
Repayrento to IDA (1.0% yr.. 11-16)                        -             -            -            -             -            -            -            -             -            -          3').0         33.0         30.0          30.0         30.0          30.0
Repayment of Government Advnes                             -             -          33.1          2.3            -            -            -            -             -            -             -            -             -            -             -            -
Net Interest Inoome to Government                          -            -             -          79.5        152.7         119.3        113.7        103.1         97.8          97.3         95.8          97.0         99.8         101.7        100.3          98.9
Lisetook Acoount (Rsnolviag)                               _-                                      -         134.7         203.4        337.7        401.7         127.L        164.8        433.0         369.9        269.9         305.2        298.9         318.4
r 0 T A L                                                  778.0        767.6         911.1        662.2        525.6         S17.9        715.3        906.0         C90.L      1,050.0      1,084.1         090.2        829.7         769.6        794.0         835.6
1I  Original loans auld earn 6.75 peroent interest and 6.5 percent int.eret pr annmu  for loans mado through oomercial bnk. *.o ULI complec and privote rarchers respeotively.
2/  Original loa1 a   uould be for tois of 12 years including foor years of grace to ULI compls. and ten y-arn including fur year. of gra.o  to privats ranchers.  Shbseqoent lo.ns could bh  for tern of ten year.  including four years of grace.
3/  Government would make interest free advances to cover any deficits for lcal technical  ervi-s and adninietration .osts.  Tbose ad-oncen  -oOd he fully r-paid in year-4.
4/  From Admini.tration Budget, Annex 8.
5/  detimate  of administrative costs for UCB and nominal anmont for Oentral Bank.  These oonct  ace oovcred by .75 percont of co-enisnion charged participating bank.  r their outstanding lon balancco with 0GB'. livesto.k Aownt.



02  3h- -diI1 1991 i 2gV   t,2 3.29]) 11
eR'9E '7:3A;H FI2 17R PART7V1,IPA'-' I.
C A T E O 0  R Y                             1                        3             -                        6            1                                     1             1          12            1       3     ;           1 5         16
CASH INFLOW
TA Funds (75%)                                        700.        65.9 7        32 -           .         l.'                                -                               -
Pertioipattlng Sank' cuods (2t.. 3                    233.3       22L.2        2'5.) .:   S.*79                                                                       -
Sobseque.t Lo.n  1/                                      -            -            -                  -               3L           2'3.L                         I -     L2'.L       61L. 3        i33. ''                   269.         31-.2        238.9
Coit.ent Charge.!/                                      2.3          2.2          2.3         1.7                        - 
Interest R.ceipte (8%)
Original Loans                                         -          '4.        IL6.5        23L.*4       253.3        287.        26L.5        226.2        161.9        138.L         43.3         51.7         21.4          4.1
Subsequent Loans                                       -            -           -            -                         -         10.8         27.C          _.7         36.3        113.S        151.2        176.)        172.1        1-?.S
Rapayayt of Principal
Original Loans                                         -           -            -            -         1' .         327 2       502.9        SL3.q 3        i3. 9       i3.         6 -2. 7      366.5        -3.1         112.2           -
Sub-squent Loans                                       -                                                               -            -                        -          22.L         56.3        112.6        160.0        251.2        323.9        378.L
r o r A L                                                935.6       976.1      1,253.L        923.2        bl1 .        751.6        981.6     1,131.6      1,18L.5      1,218.h      1,235.7      1,11.0        901.S        334.5        827.6        868.8
CASH OUrFLOW
Original Loans to Ranch Ent-rprisee
UL  Conpleu                                        ?65.0       338.8        572.0        325.7        11
Private Ranchers                                    168.3       560.L        532.0        31o.-        '? 7
Subsequent Loans to  anch Coterprises                    -            -            -           -            -         13L.7        203.L        337. -      1L.7         L12.L        L6L.8        L33.3        363.9        269.9        30C.?        298.9
Interest Pay-entso t 1CB 3/
Original Loans                                         _         16.9         91.1 L      I6.2         172)3        179.8        165.3       1L1.3        113.7         86.5         -8.3         32.3         13.7          5.7           -             -
Subsbq.ent Loans                                                                                                       -           8.7         22.3        LL.6         71.3         l8.1        125.0        11.6.2       158.8        159.9        158.3
Principal Repayments to UCB L
Original Loans                                         -            -            -           -         13L.7        203.6        337.7       19.7        127.L        LL2.L        L36.7        287.3        1159.         8. *
Subsequent Loans                                       -            -            -           -            -            -            -            -            -         22.1         56.3        112.         180.0        251.2        328.9        378.L
Adinistration costs 5/                                 6.o          6.0          6.o          6.o          5.0         L.0          1.0                       3.0          3.0          3.0          3.0          3.0          3.0          3.0          3.0
Recovery of Participating Banks'
Contribution                                           -          21.0        52.0         81.1        162.1        229.7        262.3        132.8           -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -
Surplus (Deficit)                                      (3.7)          -            -           -             -           -            -          91.2        191.1        165.L      1l8.6          156.8         69.1         61.9         30.6         30.2
T 0 T A L                                                935.6        976.1     1,253.          423.2       S71          751.6        281.6      1,113.S    .184.5         1, 23.1     1,235.7      1,150.0         921.3       83L.5        827.6         868.8
1/ From Liveatock Account (resvolvng) maintained by UUB.  Participants would not be eupectedo t  -k- 2Oc per-en  co-triuts  no under inittI  lending pr-gran.
2/  One percent once-for-aol oharge by the banks on their contribution.
3/ Based on 6.75 percent for IA funds going to  tLI corplex  nd 6.5 porcent for I17A funds going to privatn ranchers under initial lending prograw.
4/ Baed on the Agreent betreon participating banks and UD8 that loans to ULr -ould be for 12 years including four years of grace and amortized in eight equal annual payments.  Repayments  -l d bo shared 25-75 between co_ercid banks nd
DCB respectiely.  Loans to privat, ranchserv would be for ten Years inciuding four years of grame and a-.rti-ed in six equal annual instalLnents.   oueOer, in IsFr-S  and 6, ropo2eet woule  snared 60-53  and 25_75 thereafter on
re,aining balances bets.n  coaesercial banks  nd VCi r.9pe-ttlely.
5/ Subsequent loans vould be sade entirely fron surplus funds in U1B Llvestock Acc-'un- far 1' -ear terms ;n.c-ding L years ,f grace.



ANNEX B
UGAND
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ADMIISTRATION BIJDGET
U.S.            Foreign
Expenditure Items                                         I E A R S                                  Dollar          Exchange
1        2         3                   5      Total       Equivalent      Ccaponent
Salaries   Dieto                                                   )                                                 ss
--rr-0ject Director              6,500    6,500    7,000    7,000    7,5Xo   34,500               661            96,600
Techniclans  I/                           2,000    4~,6oo    4,800    4,800    5,600    21,600           60,48(
Office Assistant                            800      800       900       900    1,000      6,4&00        12,320
.Secretary                                  ij00      400      450       450       500      2,200          6,16o0
Consultant Seri-ices                     6,043    5,000         -      -                  11,0103032                     30 920
Subtotal                             15,74i3   17,100   13,150   13,150  lIJ,600)   73,763           ?2' , 47j   ~    752
Other Expenses
Project Director -. Int'l. Travel         1,500        -     1,000        -     1,500      4.000         11,2ry'         11,200
Per Diem kllawances                       1,875    3,000    3, 000    3,000    3,000    13,S7;           38,85)             -
Transport Expenses                        2,700    6,500    4,500    4,500    4,500    20),700           57,960
Offlce Expenses  2/                      1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000o   1,000         5,00(         Th,00
Subtotal                              7,075    6,500    9,500    Zs 500   10.000    4r3,S~75         122,010         11,200
CaPitlul aysa
~vehicleis  3/                             2,200    3,300         -         -         -      5,500         15.400         1s,60oc
Office EquIpment                            300 (               -                            300             Bt,01          Bhio
Office Furniture                             200       -        --                           200            560
Subtotal                              2,700    3,300         --                         6, W-0        16, 3 o 0024
TOTAL =                                    2 51b~  2d;,900   "2,8,50   21,65G   2)~,tOCX )      1 
TC AL   US$                                71,hS5O   80,920   63.'i?G    aAr    68,86c , :~ 
1/  Two technicians in first year with two additional engaged in sec ond year.
2/1 Includes rent, telephone, stationery, and postal fees.
3/ Purchase of five vehicles for project staff.



UGANDA: BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
ACTING AS AGENT OF BORROWER
I
PROJECT COMMITTEE
Department of Veterinary Services and Animal Industry (Ch.)
Department of Agriculture
Ministry of Commerce and Industry
Ministry of Mineral and Water Resources
Bank of Uganda
Uganda Commercial Bank
Uganda Bankers Association
Project Director (Executive Secretary)
BANK OF UGANDA
UGANDA COMMERCIAL                      PROJECT TECHNICAL SERVICES                       PRIVATE COMMERCIAL
BANK                                   Project Director                                 BANKS
Technical Staff
P A R T I C I P A T  I N G    R A N C H I N G    E N T E R P R I S E S                                 Z
z
z
May 1968                                                                                                                           (2R)IBRD-3880  0



ANNEX 10
UGANDA
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Duties, Powers and Qualifications of the Project Director
The Project Director shall have the technical responsibility for
implementation and execution of the Project and shall have the following
specific duties and powers:
(a) advising the Project Committee on major policy decisions
in respect of the Project;
(b) executing the Project in accordance with policies and
procedures agreed to by the Project Committee;
(c) cooperating with the management of the UCB and of the
Participating Banks toward accomplishing Project
objectives;
(d) recommending employment of Project staff as he considers
necessary to carry out Project activities;
(e) recommending to the Governor of the Bank of Uganda with
respect to:
(i) remuneration for Project staff and other compensation
necessary to attract the most qualified personnel
available;
(ii)  the selection, appointment, promotion, demotion,
suspension or removal of Project staff;
(iii) the preparation of annual budgets for the needs
of the Project staff and office;
(f) prescribing the duties and responsibilities of the livestock
technicians and training them to prepare ranch development
plans including the technical and economic aspects of live-
stock production;
(g)  approving or disapproving of ranch development plans pre-
pared and appraised under the Project, and recommending
such plans to the UCB or to the Participating Banks as the
basis for lending;



ANNEX 10
Page 2
(h) providing such supervision and technical assistance as
necessary to ensure successful completion of each ranch
development plan and loan;
(i) informing the UCB or a Participating Bank of any misuse of
the proceeds of a ranch development loan or failure on the
part of the borrower to carry out the ranch development
plan and recommending to them remedial actions therefor;
(J) establishing and maintaining records for sample ranches as
needed for Project evaluation;
(k) preparing quarterly and annual progress reports for sub-
mission to the Project Committee for transmittal to the
Association;
(1) in consultation with the Project Committee and other
agencies concerned undertaking such studies as deemed
necessary for the efficient development of livestock
watering facilities, and effective means for controlling
the growth of bush and weeds; and
(m) informing the Borrower, the Board of the Uganda Livestock
Industries Limited (ULI) and the Association of any manage-
ment problems of the ULI and of the ULI ranches relating to
the Project.



ANNEX 11
UGANDA                                     Table  1
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN OF RANCH MODEIS
Ranch Model                                                          Y E A R S
1         2         3         4          5          6          7-19         20
.                    ~~~( )
1.  Breeding Ranch
Incremental Net SalesL/              720    22,581   70,987    44,287    58,081    52,737         53,727      252,7672/
Incremental Operating Expensesl/ 7 581    11.460   11.775    10,935    10,935    10,935           10,935       '-^,935
Net Incremental Value of Prod. ( 6,61)   11,121   59,212    33,352    L7,146    L1,i02            42,792
Capital Investments           ( 102,790)   72.710)( 24,920)        --        --         --          -_            -_
Net Cash Flow                  ( 109,651)   61,589)  34,292    33,252    LY,1L6    41,bO2         42,792       62,532
1.  Financial Rate of Return - ?:' Per Cent
2.  BreedinP/Fatteniig Ranrh
Incremental Net SalesV/         /     [cl    2, 97;)   2, )52     2,         i,62i     3,153       3,4c5       15,515-/
Incremental Operating Exn--;ses-    570        T07        ' ^.&1 l          1,010      I,'00       1,1           1 010
Net Incremental Value of Prod.        C31    2,2650    1 , 20               2 ,611     2-,j3       2  
Capital Investments              ( 7,510)  ( 3,70'    --           __        __          _          __             _
Net Cash Flow                                1,20l"   1,2         1,5       2,613                  2,L55        Io,509
2.  Fi!ancial Rate 2f Ctetur_ - 21 f'er Cent
3.  Fattening Ranch
Incremental N3et Salesi/         ,24,144    31,416   32,648    32,820    39,508    37,660         37,660       151,780-/
Incremental Operating Expenses;L 11,618    14,489   14,089    13,649    13,649    13,649          13.6L9        13,649
Net Incremental Value of Prod.  12,526    16,927   1;,15`    19,1,,    25,0,59    24,011          24,011       13;,)l1
Capital Investments            ( 135,941)  ( 5,900)    --          --        --         --          --            --
Net Cash Flow                  ( 123,415)   11,027   16,159    19,175    25,b59    24,011         24,011       13S,131
3.  Financial Hate of Return - 17 Per Cent
1/  The term "incremental" is used to denote increase in sales or expenses over the pre-development values of these
items.
/ Incremental value of herd plus net incremental value of production.



ANNEX 11
Table 2
GANDA
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED NET BENEFIT AND RATE OF RETURN TO THE ECONOMY
Y E A R S
1         2          3          4          5          6          7-19          20
Net Incremental Cash Flo-!/ for        ( 548,255) ( 307,945)  171,460   166,260   235,730   209,010    213,960   1,209,160
5 Model-l Ranches
Net Incremental Cash Flow!/ for        ( 371,450)  ( 60,050)   60,200    97,500   130,550   117,150    122,750           725,450
50 Model-2 Ranches
Net Incremental Cash Flow!/ for        ( 123,415)    11,027    18,159    19,175    25,859    24,011          24,011      138,131
1 Model-3 Ranch
Subtotal                             C 1,043,120) ( 356,968)  249,819   282,935   392,139   350,171    360,721   2,072,741
Less Administrative Costs-/               34,000      41,000    37,000    31,000    44,000    39,000         39,000       39,000
Net Benefit to the Economy           ( 1,077,120) ( 397,968)  212,819   251,935   348,139   311,171    321,721   2,033,7U1
Economic Rate of Return - 17 Per Cent
1/  These cash flows are net of investment and operating costs.
2/  Costs of Project technical services and estimated adninzistrative costs of :'articipating Ba,rs anld
Government services.



ANNEX 11
UGANDA                                Table  3
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNUAL INCREASED TURNOFF OF BEEF AND BREEDING STOCK AT FULL DEVELOPMENT FROM PROJECT RANCHES
Per Ranch                         All Ranches
Ranch Model                                             Beef                                          Beef
No. of        No. of        Output-        Surplus        Feeder         Output5/
Ranches       Head          (Tons)         Heifers        Steers         (Tons)
1.   BreedingRanch                      5
Surplus Helers                                 585                         2,925               2/
Feeder Steers (1-2 Yrs. )                    1,690                                        8,450-
Cull Cows                                      521         81                                             805
Cull Bulls                                      17          5                                              25
Cull Heifers                                   133         17                                              85
2.   Breeding/Fattening Ranch          50
Surplus HeiFers                                 32                         1,600
Feeder Steers (2-3 Yrs.)                        45                                        2,250-3
Cull Cows                                       27          L.2                                           210
Cull Bulls                                       1          0.3                                            15
Cull Heifers                                     7          0.&                                            40
Fat Steers (3-h Yrs.)                           23          4.l                                           205
3.   Fattening Ranch                    1
Fat Steers (3-4 Yrs.)                        7,3.8         32*                                             32
Total                               _--                                           8,525         10,700         1,017
1'                  ~~~~~~LI
Total Value (U £)                      -_              __          __           135,750-/      191,L50       152,550-
l/  Valued at £ 30 per head.  2/  Valued at £ 16 per head.  3/  Valued at £ 25 per head.  L/ Valued at £ 150
per ton of cold dressed weight.  5/  Expressed as cold dressed weight in long tons (2,21,0 lbs).
*   Net live weight gain converteT to cold dressed weight.



U GANDA
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT AREAS
N"I.                                 <      S    U   D    A    N.                                             .
PROJECT RANCHESj;                                                 )               
B UNYORO  162                 P/                     g                     
ASXIA v-       
1 . TESOjARA                              2      /                                         3              | |    
'.COOPERATIVE UNION        >    :'           / +        _J0     
ANKOLE-MASAKA               Nt                  y                                
7. BUGANDA                     j                                        OGULU        <)7
____ DISTRICT BOUNDARY         J         b        )G<e
__INTSRNATIONAL BORDER     e                                                                      -        tt
J   o                 l >       st             <_\                    o~~~~ ~ ~~~             ~    ~~~~~~~~~~ LIRA       \
t //a /X;X*MA~~~~~~SINDlo#                            X                           qRf-T
B  y   < _ & S-<r    T   o                           SE                         t              ) i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s e B E Iy
q                               b                                                             -                                 BUGISU)  
0 ForPRA                   \                                                0>XuDD                               TORORO     
/   t              \          ow                    0 ~~~~~~~~~        ~       ~         ~         ~~~KAMPALA \    j
I O _ ) /s,N,t'e'e'S +
tt                              ,0o^^.s<Sv  0{ <
. 7<  ¢5   MDARARA     /             s      g              $                                                   f~~~~~~~~MPI
*  -   >            5     9  s9}5           /                I A KE         t0/ C T O                                           F/ Al        j g
}   2   tts  _  | j . | > t A FR I CA eTEBEl  <,
w~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~t X       __r                                                         --- * ---_.                    4U                    A    D 
.  ~~~ vf    *'                                                                                                     S       >.       Rveoor~~MASKA 
1    at               ,                                                              1   0   9WO5 8L5   
SEPTEMSER 1967                                                                                                                                                IBRD 3D3



