Report No. PIC858
Project Name                   Mexico-Community Forestry
Region                         Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                         Forestry
Project ID                     MXPA7700
Borrower                       United Mexican States - Nacional
Financiera S.A.
Implementing Agency            Secretary of Environment, Natural
Resources and Fisheries (SEMARNAP)
Lateral del Anillo Periferio Sur No 4209
Fracc. Jardines en la Montana
CP 14210 Mexico DF MEXICO
Telephone: 628-0605
Date PID Prepared              December 21, 1995
Projected Appraisal Date       July 1996
Projected Board Date           February 18, 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.   Forests and wildlands cover 72 percent of Mexico, and have broad
national and global significance. Through successive land reform laws,
the 1942 Forestry Law, and the 1986 Forestry Law, forested areas in
Mexico have been transferred to ejidos and indigenous communities.
These rights are upheld in the 1992 Forestry Law.
2.   At present between 70 and 80 percent of Mexico+s 50 million
hectares of forest are owned by 8,000 forest ejidos and indigenous
communities. The unusually extensive communal ownership of Mexico+s
forests results in difficult management options, yet forests have an
important present and potential role to play for these social actors:
(a) commercially as a source of timber and non-timber products for
domestic consumption or export; (b) as the source of a range of
subsistence and informally-marketed products; (c) as religious and
cultural sacred sites of the different indigenous, ethnic groups in
forested areas; and (d) as a resource base for tourism and recreational
enterprises benefiting these communities and ejidos.
3.   Historically, agriculture and ejido development policies had
created disincentives for forest resource management. Crop and
agricultural input subsidies and land titling policies encouraged the
conversion of forests to other uses, especially in the tropics.
Recently these policies have been changed. Communities and ejidos are
now positively inclined to manage their forest resources for local
income and the environmental values generated by these resources. Past
support to communities and ejidos was too focused on timber enterprises
rather than on the generation of multiple products and benefits,
including environmental services. The government until recently limited
the number of private providers legally qualified to prepare management
plans. Nor was adequate support available to develop the business



skills of these social groups, who need technical assistance and
training on financial and environmental management of their resources.
Assistance to communities and ejidos to manage and diversify the use of
their resource base, and support to private providers of technical
assistance, is necessary. Some communities and ejidos have developed
extremely efficient forest management systems, proving that it is
possible to substantially expand the conservation of community-held
forest resources - and thereby remove the costly and difficult burden of
management from government institutions - without sacrificing the
productive potential of these resources.
4.   The Government is committed to assisting in the sustainable
management by communities and ejidos of their forestry resources and can
draw on recent analysis and experience for important lessons (see
attached note on Lessons Learned). The Government has just completed a
comprehensive forestry sector review with the Bank, the Mexico Resource
Conservation and Forest Sector Review (Grey Cover Report No. 13114-ME).
In addition, the Implementation Completion Report for the Mexico
Forestry Development Project (Loan 3115-ME) has been written,
highlighting the implementation bottlenecks that need to be overcome for
successful project execution. Ejidos such as San Juan Nuevo in
Michoacan provide lessons on efficient forest management systems.
Project Objectives
5.   The overall objective of the project is to support the
implementation of the Government+s redefined natural resource management
strategy. Specific objectives of the project are to: (a) improve
natural resource management and reduce deforestation; and (b) improve
the welfare of communities and ejidos dependent on forest resources. To
this end, the project would (a) strengthen the capacity of indigenous
and non-indigenous groups to manage their forest resource base; (b)
strengthen the capacity of the private sector to provide forestry
services to communities and ejidos; (c) design strategies to promote
timber, non-timber, and non-traditional products from community and
ejido forests; and (d) strengthen the federal and state institutions
working in forestry conservation and development.
Project Description
6.   The project would have the following components:
(a) Community and Ejido Forestry Component (about 75 percent of loan
amount). This component would assist communities and ejidos to manage
their timber resources, and develop and manage their non-timber
resources. This component would have three sub-components. The first
two sub-components would be implemented at the state level. The third
sub-component would be national in scope.
(i) Assistance to Communities and Ejidos: This component would
finance promotional activities, private technical assistance
and training, and ejido-to-ejido training for : (i)
establishing natural resource databases, including geographic
information systems; (ii) preparing management plans for
timber extraction based on regenerative capacity, making
- 2-



appropriate tradeoffs between processing and marketing,
improving reforestation practices, and undertaking resource
conservation; (iii) preparing conservation plans for forested
areas; (iv) integrated resource management issues; (v) if
necessary, undertaking boundary demarcation of community and
ejido lands so as to enable communities and ejidos to
implement their management plans and productive activities
without conflict over boundaries; (vi) accessing credit,
markets, and technologies; (vii) increasing the efficiency of
forestry activities and enterprises; and (viii) financial
management of the resource base by communities and ejidos.
The establishment of a voucher system would be explored during
project preparation.
(ii) Strengthening of the Capacity of Private Service Providers:
This component would finance the training of private sector
providers of services to communities and ejidos in sustainable
integrated forest management practices, multiple-use forestry,
reforestation technologies, silviculture, innovative
environmentally sound technologies, forest protection, and
nursery practices. It would also finance consultants and
equipment needed to review and strengthen the Government+s
certification and evaluation program for private sector
providers.
(iii)     Promotion of Non-Timber Forest Products:   This component
would finance: (i) pre-investment studies, equipment, small
civil works (such as sheds, fencing), and technical assistance
for sustained resource harvesting and propagation; and (ii)
materials and other expenditures for the initial marketing,
product development, and commercialization of promising non-
traditional timber and non-timber forest products. The
establishment of a Fund to carry out this subcomponent would
be explored during project preparation. Eligible ejidos would
be granted proposal preparation funds to enable them to
procure assistance in preparing full proposals.
(b) Institutional Strengthening Component (about percent of loan
amount). This component would strengthen SEMARNAP and other federal
agencies, and the state environmental agencies. Studies, training,
technical assistance, equipment, management supervision, monitoring and
evaluation, would be financed under this component. The experience of
this pilot project would be carefully monitored, and if positive,
studies would be undertaken to replicate the experience in the other
five priority states with temperate forests.
7.   The primary beneficiaries would be participating communities and
ejidos, chosen on the basis of the forestry resources under their
control, their size and level of organization, and the quality of their
proposal for technical assistance or funding. Other beneficiaries would
include: the private providers of services to the communities and
ejidos, who would receive training and who would be certified;
academics, NGOs, and research organizations who could apply for research
funds; other ejidos who would benefit from the resolution of boundary
demarcation issues; and state and federal institutions.
- 3 -



Project Financing
8.   The estimated project cost is US$ 50 million, of which US$ 35
million would be financed by an IBRD loan, and the remainder by the
Government. Retroactive financing would be recommended up to a total of
10 percent of the IBRD loan, for eligible expenditures incurred after
March 1, 1996, which is twelve months before the expected date of loan
signing.
9.   The project would undertake cost recovery during its
implementation. With the privatization of the Government+s forestry
extension service, communities and ejidos are currently paying for the
services of private sector providers of technical assistance. Under the
project, communities and ejidos would be able to use project resources
on a declining basis to hire private providers, after which the ejido
would pay for the services of the private provider. Private providers
would have to pay fees for the training they would receive, and possibly
for the certification process. Criteria would be established for cost
recovery from profitable non-timber products developed with the
assistance of project funds.
Project Implementation
10. Federal environmental agencies and organizations have been
reorganized into the Secretariat of Environment, Natural Resources and
Fisheries (SEMARNAP). The Forestry Department is part of the new Sub-
Secretariat of Natural Resources, and centralizes previously dispersed
functions. This Sub-Secretariat would have overall responsibility for
implementing the project, and would monitor, evaluate, and report on
project implementation using staff in line positions. Other federal
institutions would also be involved, such as the National Forestry
Council (CONAF), the National Biodiversity Commission (CONABIO), and the
Tropical Forestry Action Program (PROAFT). At the state level in
Oaxaca, the Secretariat of Agricultural and Forestry Development (SEDAF)
cooperates closely with SEMARNAP+s state delegation on forestry
activities. Other state agencies, such as the state planning
commission, COPLADE, will also be involved. NAFIN would serve as the
financial agent.
11. Implementation of project components would be decentralized to the
extent possible, with monitoring and supervision taking place at
appropriate levels in the Government. Communities and ejidos would
procure their own technical assistance, with the funds flowing either
from the local financial agent to the ejidos for payment to the private
provider, or from the local financial agent to the private provider
directly. The SEMARNAP delegation and state government would be
responsible for supervising the program and certifying the private
providers according to criteria established by the Forestry Department
at SEMARNAP. Most training for ejidos, communities and private
providers would be managed by the SEMARNAP delegation and contracted to
private trainers. In addition, training resources would be used to
allow ejido-to-ejido training, and would be administered by an ejido
consortium. Demarcation of community and ejido lands would be
undertaken by the ejidos themselves, with technical assistance from
private providers. An independent panel would be established to give
- 4 -



grants for the pre-investment expenditures necessary for the promotion
of non-timber forest products. Preference would be given to ejido,
academic, NGO, or public organizations working on non-timber forest
products from Oaxaca.
Project Sustainability
12. This project would finance activities that are expected to be
sustainable in the medium term. In addition, better management of
timber resources would result in longer, sustainable extraction of the
resource. Commercially viable non-timber activities, and non-
traditional timber activities would generate income for their
continuation. With better training and an improved ability to generate
resources for the communities and ejidos, private providers of technical
assistance would be financially viable.
Environmental and Social Aspects
13. This project has been assigned to Environmental Assessment Category
B. All three project components are designed to improve the
environmental management of forests and priority conservation areas.
The Environmental Data Sheet (attached) discusses the possible positive
and negative impact of the project on the environment, and the
mitigating actions that would be taken during project preparation and
implementation.
14. The project is targeted to communities composed of indigenous
populations, and ejidos which contain indigenous populations to varying
degrees, therefore a separate Indigenous Peoples Development Plan will
not be prepared. A process of participatory planning will complement
the participatory social assessment carried out during the Bank+s joint
Sector Review to make recommendations on the involvement of communities
and ejidos in project planning, implementation, and evaluation.
Poverty and Program Objective Categories
15. The proportion of the poor among project beneficiaries is expected
to be significantly larger than their proportion in the overall
population, therefore this project fits the criteria for inclusion in
the Program of Targeted Interventions. The project belongs primarily to
the Environmentally Sustainable Development and Poverty Reduction and
Human Resource Development program objective categories. Given its
focus on communities and ejidos, and on private sector service
providers, the project also belongs to the Private Sector Development
program objective category.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
- 5 -



may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending March 21, 1997
- 6 -



