            Document of
          The World Bank




                                    Report No: 29582

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
         (SCL-41370 TF-24372)

                ON A

               LOAN

  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$15 MILLION

               TO THE

      UNITED MEXICAN STATES

               FOR A

   COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT




            June 29, 2004

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2003)

                   Currency Unit = Mexican Peso
                      MXN$1.00 = US$ 0.089
                        US$ 1.00 = MXN$11.250

                         FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1    December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAS           Country Assistance Strategy

CCMSS         Mexican Advisory Group for Sustainable Silviculture
              [Consejo Civil Mexicano para la Silvicultura Sostenible,
              A.C.]
COINBIO       Indigenous and Community Biodiversity Conservation
              Project

COLPOS        Postgraduate Faculty [Colegio de Postgraduados]

CONAFOR       National Forestry Commission [Comisión Nacional
              Forestal]

DGF           Forestry Department [Dirección General Forestal]

ERR           Economic Rate of Return

FMP           Forest Management Plan

GEF           Global Environmental Facility

GOM           Government of Mexico

ha.           hectare

IDF           Institutional Development Fund

NAFIN         National Financial Bank [Nacional Financiera]

NGO          Non-Governmental Organization

NRM          Natural Resource Management

NTFP          Non-Timber Forest Products

NPV           Net Present Value

PCU           Project Coordination Unit

PEC           Continuing Education Program [Programa de Educación

             Continua]

PRA          Participatory Rapid Appraisal

PROCYMAF     Community Forestry Project [Proyecto de Conservación y
             Manejo Sustentable de Recursos Forestales en México]

PRODEFOR     Forestry Support Program [Programa de Desarollo
             Forestal]

PRODEPLAN    Commercial Forest Plantation Program [Programa de
             Plantaciones Forestales Comerciales]

PROFEPA      Mexican Environmental Enforcement Agency [
             Procuraduría Federal de Protección al Ambiente]

PRONARE      National Reforestation Program [Programa Nacional de
             Reforestación ]

SAR          Staff Appraisal Report

SEMARNAP     National Environmental Agency [Secretaria del Medio
             Ambiente, Recursos Naturales y Pesca]

SEMARNAT     National Environmental Agency [Secretaria de Medio
             Ambiente y Recursos Naturales]

UMS          United Mexican States



                 Vice President:  David de Ferranti
              Country Director    Isabel M. Guerrero
                Sector Manager    Shelton H. Davis
             Task Team Leader     Daniel R. Gross

                                           MEXICO

                                COMMUNITY FORESTRY


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P007700                                            Project Name: MX COMMUNITY FORESTRY
Global Supplemental ID: P066674 (Partially Blended)            Supp. Name: Indigenous and Community Biodiversity
                                                               Conservation Project (GEF)
Team Leader: Daniel R. Gross                                   TL Unit: LCSEO
ICR Type: Core ICR                                             Report Date: June 29, 2004


1. Project Data
                 Name: MX COMMUNITY FORESTRY                                 L/C/TF Number: SCL-41370
   Country/Department: MEXICO                                                        Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                              Caribbean Region

       Sector/subsector: Forestry (42%); Central government administration (29%);
                         Agricultural extension and research (29%)
                Theme: Other environment and natural resources management (P);
                         Environmental policies and institutions (P); Participation and civic
                         engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                           Original               Revised/Actual
          PCD: 12/22/1995                                 Effective: 08/01/1997              11/06/1997
     Appraisal: 06/24/1996                                    MTR: 06/30/1999                11/05/2000
     Approval: 02/18/1997                                  Closing: 06/30/2002               12/31/2003



   Supplemental Name: Indigenous and Community Biodiversity                  L/C/TF Number: TF-24372
                        Conservation Project (GEF)

       Sector/subsector: Forestry (58%); Sub-national government administration (23%);
                         Central government administration (11%); Other social services
                         (8%)
                Theme: Biodiversity (P); Administrative and civil service reform (P);
                         Participation and civic engagement (P); Rural non-farm income
                         generation (S); Decentralization (S)

  KEY DATES                                                           Original               Revised/Actual
  GEF Council: 10/28/1999                                 Effective: 06/15/2001              06/21/2001
     Appraisal: 05/15/2000                                    MTR:
     Approval: 11/28/2000                                  Closing: 06/30/2008

   Borrower/Implementing Agency:       GOVT OF MEXICO/SEMARNAP (then CONAFOR)
                   Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:            David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:          Isabel M. Guerrero                             Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:            Shelton H. Davis                               Michael Baxter
Team Leader at ICR:        Daniel R. Gross                                Gisu Mohadjer
ICR Primary Author:        Takako Mochizuki; Daniel R.
                           Gross

2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                                           Rating                             Rating (Supplemental GEF)
                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The objective of the project1 was to assist indigenous communities and ejidos2 living in forested
areas of Mexico to raise their standards of living through improved management and conservation
of forest resources and by increasing the range of options for entrance in regional, national and
international markets. The specific objectives of the project were to: (a) improve natural resource
management and conservation by community and ejido forest owners; and (b) increase the range
of forest-based income options available to them.

Assessment of objectives. These objectives reflected priorities for the forestry sector in Mexico at
the time of project preparation, identified both by the GOM and the Bank's CAS which pointed to
the need to modernize and utilize the economic potential of the forestry sector for poverty
reduction and sustainable development. It was the first project on a substantial scale to tackle
issues of income generation through sustainable management of natural resources in some of the
poorest indigenous communities in southern Mexico. The project was designed to position the
government, communities and private providers to take advantage of growing demand for forest
products and services, and to help meet that demand, by offering improved technical assistance
services to the communities and making them aware of alternatives to traditional methods. The
objectives were clearly defined, however, the scope of implementation, particularly, the gradual
expansion of project area from one state to multiple states could be considered too demanding as
a pilot project.

3.2 Revised Objective:

N.A.

3.3 Original Components:

A. Assistance to Communities and Ejidos (US$ 10.3 million)
This component aimed to channel resources to forest communities and ejidos for technical
assistance and training in improved forest management, conservation and sustainable use of



                                                           - 2 -

natural resource areas with high environmental value, and improved management of forest
enterprises. It financed: (a) promotional activities, including participatory rapid appraisals and
regional fora; (b) technical assistance provided by private providers under contracts with
participating communities and ejidos; and (c) training courses by universities, academic
institutions, and individual trainers, and more advanced communities (community to community
seminars) for community and also by ejido members, all on a demand-driven basis. The project
did not provide investment funding for timber products.

B. Strengthen the capacity of the Private Service Providers (US$ 1.6 million)
This component aimed to broaden the range, increase the quality and increase the availability of
technical services offered by private service providers to forest producers in Oaxaca, Michoacán
and Guerrero. The component supported training to prepare private sector providers to work
with communities and ejidos in sustainable integrated forest management practices, multiple-use
forestry, reforestation technologies, silviculture, innovative environmentally sound technologies,
forest protection, and nursery practices.

C. Promotion of Non-Timber Forest Products (NTFP) (US$ 3.2 million)
This component aimed to identify, promote, and demonstrate market opportunities for potentially
tradable NTFPs in community and ejido forests where NTFPs are integrated into management
plans. This component was to be carried out in the six priority states with pine-oak forest, and
financed: (i) diagnostic studies; (ii) grants for the purchase of tools, materials, equipment, minor
civil works, technical assistance and limited inputs for the development of NTFP; and (iii) salaries,
consultants, equipment, materials, and publications for the evaluation and dissemination of results.


D. Institutional Strengthening (US$ 8.5 million)
This component aimed at strengthening the federal and state institutions working in forestry
conservation and development. It specifically aimed to support capacity building of: (a) federal
institutions to carry out normative and enforcement activities that have a direct impact on
community forestry; (b) state government institutions in the priority states in preparation for the
eventual decentralization of resources and responsibilities; (c) Project Management and Project
Implementation Units in SEMARNAP in Mexico City each participating state to implement the
project; and (d) federal and state institutions to monitor activities and prepare similar projects.

3.4 Revised Components:

N.A.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

Consistency with the CAS

The project addressed priorities set forth in the CAS (Report No. 16056-ME; October 15, 1996),
that included strengthening environmental management, income generation in the poorest
indigenous communities in southern Mexico, and support for administrative decentralization.



                                                   - 3 -

Consistency with the Government's priorities

The project was designed to support the Government's emerging forestry sector for the shifting to
decentralized management in ejidos and forest communities owning forest lands. During the
1990s, there was an increasing recognition of three major points: (a) that most of Mexico's
substantial forest reserves are owned by indigenous communities and ejidos; (b) that production
and conservation needed to be integrated into a single policy; and (c) that commercial forestry
presented one means of lifting Mexico's indigenous communities and ejidos out of poverty.
These policies were outlined in the Forestry Law of 1986 and reinforced in the 1992 Forestry
Law. The legislative changes provided for the deregulation of forestry activity, liberalization of
forest technical services and promotion of producer associations in ejidos and communities. In
1997, this framework of attention with an integrated vision of environmental and natural resource
management, SEMARNAP initiated the first national sectoral programs: the Forestry
Development Program (PRODEFOR which, incidentally, incorporated many of the principles first
introduced in the PROCYMAF project), the Commercial Forest Plantation Program
(PRODEPLAN), and National Reforestation Program (PRONARE) with the objective of
incorporating forestry activity into the national development and farmers' economy in a profitable
and environmentally sustainable way.

In this context, the GOM requested that the Bank and SEMARNAP jointly carry out a diagnostic
study of forestry sector, which was finalized as the Mexico Resource Conservation and Forestry
Sector Review (Grey Cover Report No.13144-ME; March 31, 1995). The study identified both
strengths and constraints that could contribute to or hinder forestry and the potential of both the
"social" (ejidos and indigenous communities) and private sectors to improve resource
management and to create investment opportunities. Subsequently, the GOM requested Bank
support for an operation in the forestry sector, focusing on indigenous communities and ejidos
with significant forest resources. PROCYMAF was designed as outcome of joint work of the
Bank and SEMARNAP throughout diagnostic exercise and participatory public consultation to
define a mechanisms to strengthen community forestry that would provide direct support to ejidos
and communities and generate methodological, technical and operational instruments to
strengthen the policies for this sector.

Project Risks / Safeguard Policies

The PROCYMAF project was built on prior experience, sector work, and other work such as the
ejido-to-ejido training supported by an Institutional Development Fund Grant (IDF Grant;
TF28855), and continuing dialogue and consultation based upon social assessment and
participation plan with stakeholders. The project design was also grounded in lessons learned
from implementation of other Bank projects, in particular, the unsuccessful Bank-financed Mexico
Forestry Development Project (Loan 3115-ME), which was under implementation between 1989
and 1993 in the two northern forest-rich states of Chihuahua and Durango and was closed due to
a failure to meet its development objectives.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs



                                                  - 4 -

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

By most measures, PROCYMAF was successful, making substantial progress in empowering
poor communities to improve management of their forest resources and expanding their options
for income generation. Its strategy that combined capacity building of communities/ejidos and of
private technical service providers has laid a foundation to enable communities and ejidos to make
informed decisions at a collective level and to conduct strategic planning based on solid
information and technical inputs made available by service providers. Quantitatively speaking, in
terms of geographic coverage, PROCYMAF made significant inroads in the areas where it was
implemented, helping to raise the area of forest under new or revised management plans. The
project contributed to building up private service providers' technical skills and increasing the
availability of their services to communities and ejidos, whereas previously, such providers were
primarily oriented to timber production and not to integrated forest management. Additionally,
implementation of the project entailed interaction between the project team and beneficiary
communities helping re-establish trust between indigenous communities and government
programs in the forestry sector. Throughout the project cycle, a total of 599 communities and
ejidos (304 in Oaxaca, 107 in Michoacán, 90 in Guerrero, 36 in Durango, 31 in Chihuahua, and
31 in Jalisco) received support of various types from PROCYMAF; additionally, several
community forestry enterprises were created or strengthened with support from the project,
bringing not only economic but also social benefits to the communities.

The only investments funds available under the project were for NTFPs and the size of this
component, partly in view of the Bank's reluctance to make large-scale investments in the
sensitive forest sector at that time. Consequently, the funds available for NTFP investments may
have been lower than actual demand. A significant portion of PROCYMAF funds was spent to
carry out studies of potential investment projects, done by technical service providers (PSPs),
NGOs, or consulting companies; in a few cases, the project provided support for acquisition of
tools, materials, or field equipment for the development of non-timber forest products. As
PROCYMAF's support for technical assistance to ejidos and communities demonstrated the
feasibility of such investments the demand for NTFP investments increased. This, in turn,
facilitated communities to seek additional resources from other federal, and state, municipal
programs as well as to invest their own resources. An estimated 90.5 million pesos were
leveraged by PROCYMAF through grants from PRODEFOR's and soft loans, the Alianza para
el Campo Program, and other financial institutions such as Fondos Instituidos con Relación a la
Agricultura, among others, to carry out investment projects.

By component

Forest communities and ejidos

Rating: Highly Satisfactory.

When the ejidos and communities formally regained control over their forests in mid 1980s3, they
faced two challenges: (i) the lack of technical capacity; and (ii) inexperience in sustainable forest
management practices. Under the community forestry scheme, they needed to learn not only



                                                 - 5 -

about productive activities but also management, business and marketing skills, that entail greater
complexity than traditional activities required. Project activities under this component focused on
diagnostics and participatory planning exercises and helped ejidos and communities to define
development strategies aimed at self-management, in accordance with their social and natural
capital and needs. The project developed an instrument to classify the beneficiary ejidos and
communities into four types:

    Type I: Owners of commercially viable forest stocks but lacking authorized Forest
    Management Plans.
    Type II: Owners of forest stocks practicing forestry through concessions to third parties
    without participating in management.
    Type III: Owners of forest stocks with authorized Forest Management Plans involved in one
    or more phases of forest management.
    Type IV: Owners of forest resources who add value to forest products and market them
    directly.

Table 1: Number of ejidos/communities that received support for Technical Assistance studies.
(by type in each State)

                           Type 1                Type 2            Type 3     Type 4   Union*
  Oaxaca                       68                  52                 28       24       4
 Guerrero                       8                   9                  3        7       1
 Michoacán                     14                  19                  -        8       1
 Jalisco                        -                   1                  -        2        -
  TOTAL                        90                   81                31       51       6

*Group of beneficiaries consisting of different types of communities/ejidos
(Source: PCU Final Report)

Although not defined as a project objective in itself, some communities / ejidos moved up to
higher levels in the typology. In Oaxaca, nine ejidos / communities moved from Type 2 to Type
3, and three ejidos / communities from Type 3 to Type 4. Moreover, five communities moved up
from Type 1 to Type 2, and later, to Type 3 during the project. Likewise, Guerrero saw five
ejidos move from Type 1 to Type 2 and seven communities in Michoacán went through a similar
transition. The changes from Type 1 to Type 2 often occurred when a forest management plan
was prepared.

The project was directed almost entirely to communities and ejidos that own commercially
valuable forest resources. However, even in these communities, there are often many residents
living in or near the community's lands who do not directly share in the ownership of community
resources. These so-called avecindados may actually outnumber the ejidatarios and comuneros,
but they are not considered as community members and do not participate in community decision
making. Little is known about the relative poverty status of these persons, but it is probably safe
to assume that many of them are in a less advantageous situation than the community and ejido
members. Avecindados benefited indirectly from the project through the public improvements
made with income from forest enterprises such as schools, road improvements, health posts, etc.



                                                            - 6 -

Many avecindados also benefited from employment in community enterprises.

Although the project did not directly address gender issues, it did bring significant benefits to
women and contribute to greater gender equality. Women are an important part of every ejido
and indigenous community, but they have traditionally been excluded from decision-making, from
holding important community offices and other posts. However, in many communities and
ejidos, there is a trend to greater participation by women in decision making such as by granting
women voice and, in a few cases, voting rights in the community assembly, the highest
decision-making body in the community. The project benefited women by opening up
opportunities for employment in such areas as resin production, sawmill operation, bottled water
production and ecotourism. Some seven spring-water bottling operations were supported by the
project in Oaxaca alone, each one generating 15 to 20 direct jobs, most of which went to women.
Six ecotourism projects received supported in Oaxaca, each generating six to ten jobs, of which at
least half were held by women. In Guerrero, women were the backbone of a successful project
for the collection, processing and sale of flowers used for their medicinal value. Women also
benefited by participating in PROCYMAF-sponsored training and inclusion in community
planning activities. It appears that communities that operated successful community enterprises
were more apt to bring women more actively into the economy and decision making. However,
systematic data have not been collected on this topic.

Private Service Providers

Rating: Highly Satisfactory.

At appraisal, there were some 23 registered private service providers (PSPs) ­ including 17
individuals and 5 companies, which employed between 5 to 15 professionals ­ in Oaxaca, while
the access by communities to information and technical assistance on forestry issues had been
limited. The concern over PSPs was twofold: absolute scarcity in number; and the quality of
existing service providers. Additionally, there was a problem regarding the mix of services
available. Traditionally, technical services in the forest sector were directed primarily to timber
exploitation, but the relevant actors increasingly came to realize the importance of equipping PSPs
with the skill mix to meet the emerging needs of indigenous communities and ejidos in the new
context and accordingly upgrading their skills. The needed skill areas include conservation
biology, marketing and business administration, legal affairs, accounting and bookkeeping, social
affairs, and information technology.

PROCYMAF contributed by diversifying services and by strengthening the professional
qualifications of PSPs. The project substantially increased the availability of PSPs, building up a
roster of PROCYMAF of some 254 professional consultants, including individual specialists,
small firms, and NGOs, all of whom have participated in a PROCYMAF training course as a
condition of membership in the roster. In addition to specific technical areas, these professionals
are trained in the areas such as: (i) community organization skill; (ii) environmental planning and
forest management techniques; (iii) conservation biology; (iv) economic analysis; and (v) technical
assistance for community enterprise. Many service providers also participated in a
PROCYMAF-sponsored "Continuing Education" program (PEC) that offered scholarships to



                                                   - 7 -

qualified PSPs to strengthen their knowledge skills in specific areas demanded by ejidos and
communities allowing them to accumulate credits towards a Masters Degree. During project
execution, PSPs became the major direct beneficiaries as they gained business opportunities to
carry out technical assistance for the communities.

From the perspective of communities and ejidos, access to an augmented pool of PSPs offered a
broader and more competitive range of services, which helped expand options for community
development. Moreover, the free choice among different PSPs reduced the level of dependency
by client communities and also lowered the risk of monopolization of services by a few
professionals.

Although great strides were made in this component, the roster is still somewhat skewed by
discipline and location. The traditional areas such as biology, forestry, agriculture, and forest
engineering grew significantly, while business and financial management and other areas remain
particularly weak.

Forestry and Natural Resource Management

Rating: Highly Satisfactory.

The project supported some 71 studies specifically aimed at conservation and forest resource
management, as well as in training activities, which resulted in substantial increase of forested area
under management and conservation. Forest land under improved community forestry
management plans expanded from 60,623 hectares (ha.) in 1998 to 271,731 ha., while 535,685
ha. of forest land were newly placed under community land planning. The strategy of directly
targeting forest conservation has been complemented by promoting alternative income generation
that would alleviate pressure on natural resources. During project implementation, a
complementary project, the Mexico Community Biodiversity and Conservation Project
(COINBIO) was prepared and became effective in June of 2001. This project provided GEF
grant funding through NAFIN and SEMARNAT (later CONAFOR) to a range of conservation
activities, including botanical and faunal inventories, and the creation of protected areas within the
territories of indigenous communities and ejidos in the same three states as the PROCYMAF
project. The COINBIO project complements the PROCYMAF project, and to some extent,
overlaps with it. It has a separate decision-making mechanism based in State Committees.

Certification for sustainable forestry management is provided by the Rainforest Alliance through
their local partner, Consejo Civil Mexicano para la Silvicultura Sostenible, AC (CCMSS) based
on the criteria and indicators approved by the Forest Stewardship Council. With an investment of
2.5 million pesos (about US$ 250,000), PROCYMAF financed evaluations that led to the
certification of some 147,314 hectares, encompassing four ejidos/communities in Guerrero, four
in Michoacán and sixteen in Oaxaca. According to the data from CCMSS, as of 2003, 24
producer units supported by PROCYMAF represent 22% of certified surface of Mexico and their
annual timber production corresponds to 15% of national total of certified timber. To reinforce
this initiative, PROCYMAF established a cooperative agreement with NGOs interested in
promoting certification. among communities / ejidos in Mexico. Certification has made it possible



                                                 - 8 -

to improve the relationships among forest producers, civil society and the government and to
provide recognition of the communities' and ejidos' capacity to manage their owns resources in a
responsible manner. In fact, forestry experts have indicated that indigenous and ejido forest
management tends to be more conservation oriented than would be recommended from a
sustainable production perspective.

Table 2. Coverage of forested land supported by PROCYMAF

                      Forested land        Forested land under    Certified forested Forested land with
                            (ha.)              improved                land (ha.)         community land
                                            management (ha.)                                planning (ha.)
 Guerrero               5,281,116                32,161                 25,447                 39,251
 Michoacán              4,206,451                12,426                   5,463                23,872
 Oaxaca                 7,059,653               227,144                 116,404               472,562

iAvances del programa forestal 1995-2000, SEMARNAP, with data of Periodic National Database, Mexico, 1994.
Source: PROCYMAF database.

Promotion of Non-Traditional/Non-timber Forest Products (NTFPs)

Rating: Satisfactory

PROCYMAF aimed at generating employment and income particularly for community members
(e.g., women, young people) who lacked such opportunities. Investment financing from
PROCYMAF was available only for NTFPs. The results of the technical assistance studies
carried out raised expectations in communities and ejidos and encouraged them to diversify their
sources of income. During 1998 ­ 2003, the project co-financed5 43 pilot projects6. Successful
examples of NTFP subprojects include the production of bottled spring water , pine resin8,    7


cultivation of edible mushrooms, medicinal plants and ecotourism9.

At the time of the Mid-Term Review, there was a concern regarding underutilization of the results
of the technical studies and frustration among some communities and ejidos because of the lack of
investment funds to develop NTFP. This concern was significantly mitigated as the initial
investment projects have proven to be economically viable and to bring social positive impacts.
Communities and ejidos served by PROCYMAF enjoyed easier access to complementary
resources from other CONAFOR programs (e.g., Programa de Desarrollo Forestal,
PRODEFOR) and Federal, State and Municipal governments.

Institutional Strengthening

Rating: Satisfactory

The project made a significant contribution to reinforce the capacity of the state institutions at
federal, state and local levels to implement integrated and participatory public policies to promote
sustainable natural resource management, particularly in forestry. The project was particularly
influential in helping to shape legislation. An international seminar on community forestry


                                                       - 9 -

sponsored by PROCYMAF in August 2002, contributed significantly to shaping national forestry
policy and particularly the National Forestry Law passed by Congress in December 2002.
PROCYMAF placed high value on the relationships with civil society, establishing permanent
consultation mechanism, including several regional Natural Resource Committees, which
facilitated active participation by the State agencies. PROCYMAF's influence was stronger in
some states than in others; perhaps Michoacán represents the State most receptive to the
community forestry model, having established a number of programs and mechanisms that
reproduce, at a state level, the approach taken by PROCYMAF at a national level.

SEMARNAT (later CONAFOR) enhanced its capacity for administration and management of its
regulatory responsibilities at State level with support from two systems newly developed with
support from PROCYMAF:

§        Automated System of Evaluation and Monitoring Forest Management Procedures (
Sistema para Automatizar Procedimientos de Evaluación y Seguimiento de Programas de
Manejo Forestal) which uses technical and methodological standards based on identification of
specific indicators to verify the compliance with forestry regulations to help respond to
proposed forest management plan in a timely manner as well as to support verification of
regulatory compliance.

§        A Decision Support System (Sistema de Soporte de Decisiones) contributed to improve
the efficiency of management and implementation of sectoral programs by facilitating access to
updated information about environmental, socioeconomic and administrative situation of forestry
sector in the states of Guerrero, Michoacán and Oaxaca.

PROCYMAF support was also crucial to the development of the National Forest Information
System (SNIF). This an on-line, publically available, database (
http://snif.semarnat.gob.mx/cgi-bin/snif.pl?menus/menu2.men) that provides a continuously
updated compendium of information on forests and forestry in Mexico including forest
inventories, data on plantations, information on forest fire prevention, pest control, legislation,
forest programs, literature and other links.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Output targets were satisfactorily met although over a six-year period, one year longer than
originally planned.

Component 1. Assistance to Communities and Ejidos

Typology of communities. The beneficiary communities and ejidos identified in the project areas
were highly diverse in terms of forested area, access to road infrastructure, experience with
commercial forestry production, and ethnicity. In order to identify technical assistance and
training needs meeting different conditions and interests of communities and ejidos, the project
team divided communities and ejidos into four categories, based on their current level of forest
management and use. In addition to identifying TA requirements, the typology made it possible
to: (i) better understand the characteristics and problems of each type of producer; (ii) better


                                                 - 10 -

define the project's services offered to communities and ejidos; and (iii) to define the counterpart
contribution required of each type of community in accordance with their capacity to pay. The
requirement of counterpart contributions from the participating communities and ejidos provides
assurance of commitment to their subprojects by participants.

Forest Management Plan. Project invested 6.3 million pesos in studies and in the preparation, or
updating of Forest Management Plans (FMP) for 112 ejidos and communities, placing 271,731
ha. of forest land under wood production. Of a total of 117 FMPs, 56 covered new areas
incorporating 127,690 ha. under FMPs and making wood production as primary source of income
for the habitants, and the rest covering 114,041 ha. were updated.

Roster of Forest Ejidos and Communities. Using the typology described above, the Roster of
Forest Ejidos and Communities (Padrón de Ejidos y Comunidades Forestales) for each
participating State was developed to strengthen planning and programming of the project,
understand the universe of action, identify priority areas and define regional development strategy.
The list is updated periodically.

Regional Promotional Fora. The project promoted 490 Regional Promotional Fora, bringing
leaders and other interested community members together within the sub-region to exchange
information about the program and to channel demands to project implementation staff for
training and information. SEMARNAT also encouraged creation of permanent, open
participatory spaces for debate and exchange of experience among communities themselves.
Throughout the project life, promotional activities played a critical role for the project's
successful implementation through: (i) informing potential participants about assistance available
and creating a greater awareness in communities for their extractive and non-extractive forestry
potential; (ii) promoting networking among communities at the sub-regional level; and (iii)
building a relationship between ejidos/communities and government agencies for the progress of
forestry sector and the well-being of the forest dwellers.

Participatory Rapid Appraisal (PRA). Project financed 113 PRAs in about 175 communities and
ejidos to transfer analytical tools to community members that would enable them to take a more
active role in natural resource management (NRM) decisions, as well as a means of gathering
reliable information about the needs, capabilities, and interests of the communities. These
planning instruments helped build understanding about the role of forests in the life of the
community, knowledge of common resources, identification of problems they confront in their
use, identification of alternatives, and development of an Action Plan. The outcome of PRAs
were used to design requests for technical assistance to PROCYMAF.

Manuals and promotional materials. Various promotional materials were produced in Spanish10
for communities and ejidos, private providers, and government and non-governmental institutions.
Besides promotion of PROCYMAF, they covered a wide range of subjects, including an
orientation guide of management plan, criteria for access to TA and training, methods of
evaluating the quality of services being provided, environmental concerns, social and cultural
values, including preservation of cultural sites, marketing tools, and harvesting and processing
techniques.



                                                 - 11 -

Technical Assistance studies. During the period 1998 ­ 2003, 458 technical assistance studies
were conducted. These included community land planning, sustainable forest use (e.g., forest
management, certification of sound forest management, technical studies justifying use of
non-timber products, operation plans of forest management units), environmental conservation,
development of community forestry enterprises, and other applied research and special studies.
TA studies contributed in two ways: (i) they generated data about characteristics and potential
products, which would allow communities to develop a better understanding of opportunities and
limitations in the use of their resources; and (ii) they helped to form internal statutes or
regulations at the ejido or communal levels that establish norms for equitable and sustainable
forest use based on broad participation within communities and ejidos.

Training for producers. The project supported 593 training events to train forest producers in a
number of topics for forest management for conservation and optimization of benefits for forest
ecosystems, to consolidate human capital. These courses were built around four main themes: (a)
community governance and management; (b) diversification of products; (c) productive efficiency;
and (d) skills for basic forest assessment. An important characteristic of this capacity building is
that, over the life of the project, the courses were increasingly provided by ejidos and
communities with experience in the relevant topic. This component helped develop local human
and social capital. A total of 13,045 participants benefited from these events.

Community-to-community seminars. The project supported 59 "Community-to-Community"
seminars designed to facilitate exchange of information and experiences among forest
communities. These events were built on the premise that communication would be greater
among communities sharing similar backgrounds. These activities fostered creation of
communication networks, as well as technical and commercial cooperation among communities.

Component 2. Strengthening the Capacity of Private Service Providers

Roster of technical and professional service providers. The project established a roster of
individual professionals and firms able to provide services to communities and ejidos on topics
relating to forest management and production. Admission to this roster required participation in a
selection and orientation seminar providing a means for quality control as well as imparting
information about the availability of other services from CONAFOR.

Continuing Education Program (PEC). The PEC emerged as the result of a diagnostic study
conducted in 1998 to identify services available, as well as an analysis of the need to strengthen
the quality and quantity of professional services in accordance with the emerging demands from
ejidos and communities. Through collaboration agreement with SEMARNAT and CONAFOR,
PEC has been institutionalized within Colegio de Postgraduados (COLPOS: Post Graduate
College), encompassing post-graduate level courses for four priority professional profiles (i.e.,
forest-silviculture; biology and ecology; agrosilvopastoral; and administration, organization and
legal). Service providers were able to propose topics so that their needs would be reflected in the
design of the courses. They were required to take at least one module per year to remain in the
project's roster. The project financed 12 diploma courses, consisting of 48 modules, in Oaxaca,



                                                  - 12 -

Guerrero, Michoacán and Jalisco, at a cost of 4.6 million pesos (about US$460,000).

Component 3. Promotion of Non-timber Forest Products

A total of 458 technical studies on NTFPs were carried out in specific communities during the
entire project period. The results were compiled in the National Forestry Information System (
Sistema Nacional de Información Forestal including local, national and international markets.
The database is available to producers, buyers, consumers, public officials and other interested
parties of main NTFPs from temperate, tropical and subtropical forests and arid, semi-arid zones
in Chihuahua, Durango, Guerrero, Jalisco, Michoacán and Oaxaca. Among the studies were
reviews of the sustainable harvesting potential of medicinal and other useful or edible plants, the
potential for management of animal populations such as deer, studies on potential for tourism
development, studies on watershed potential, and many others.

Component 4. Institutional Strengthening

National Forestry Information System (SNIF). This is an on-line tool to help SEMARNAT make
decisions and to facilitate their functions of normative, regulatory and strengthening of forest
sector. It is designed to systematize, update and disseminate information relevant to Mexico's
forestry sector through general public consultation by internet on topics such as National Forestry
Registration, Natural Resource Database, Forest Plantation, Production and Industry, Forestry
Protection, Legislation, Culture, Forestry Programs, Publication, National and International Link.
Its intranet function facilitates administrative procedures of Nationl Forest Registry, in particular,
those related to certification of enrollment of technical service providers, warehouse centers,
transformation of forest products, integral environmental management programs, in addition to
collect statistics of production, wildfire and forest plantation. The project provided technical
assistance and training to officials and others from several State and federal agencies and it
sponsored a number of workshops for experts. The August 2002 international workshop on
community forestry was an important event for the exchange of international experience and, as
mentioned above, had an influence on Mexican legislation.

Non-Wood/Non-Traditional Forest Products Information System. This is an internet-based
catalogue of information of forest resources that PROCYMAF developed with the purpose of
strengthening the strategic planning of sustainable and integral use of forest ecosystems. The
database includes information on 2,231 timber and non-timber species (1,271 of temperate
forests, 747 of tropical/semi-tropical forests, 213 of dry/semi-dry areas) of Chihuahua, Durango,
Guerrero, Jalisco, Michoacán and Oaxaca, providing important data on their biologic,
distribution, marketing information of principle NTFPs.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

No NPV or ERR calculations were made at project appraisal. The Staff Appraisal Report notes
that the project (i) was a coherent outgrowth of the economic and sector work that preceded the
project; (ii) fit within the CAS; and (iii) targeted the indigenous communities in the poorest
regions of Mexico. During the preparation of the follow-up project -- PROCYMAF II -- an
evaluation, with extensive field work conducted in the State of Oaxaca, was commissioned. (See


                                                  - 13 -

Annex 3 for greater detail.) Detailed models of communal forestry production were compiled for
each community sampled. Economic analysis was carried out on two levels: (i) internal rate of
return (IRR) and (2) communal distribution of "value-added", defined as gross income, less
depreciation and input costs. While the IRR provides an indicator of the viability of communal
forest production, the calculation of value added and its distribution reveals the extent to which
each community captures the benefits which accrue to production. The analysis assumed a twenty
year twenty-year time period. Timber extraction per year is assumed to be equivalent to the
overall growth rate of the forest area managed by each community.

The models yield satisfactory internal rates of return, ranging from 16% to over 50%, which in all
cases surpasses the prevailing opportunity cost of capital. In all cases, the community captures
the bulk of the economic value. As for NTFPs, two cases are analyzed -- pine resin extraction
and spring water bottling. Internal rates of return for these investments were 25% and 26%,
respectively.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

No assessment of financial rate of return was made at appraisal.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Until 2000, most regulatory issues pertaining to forestry in Mexico were handled by SEMARNAT
(previously SEMARNAP), the Federal Environmental Secretariat and its enforcement arm,
PROFEPA. In April 2001, the GOM created the National Forest Commission (CONAFOR) with
a broad mandate to promote sustainable production of forests and conservation of forest
resources based on a Strategic Forestry Program with a 25-year horizon, and a National Forestry
Program (2001-2006). The project was transferred from SEMARNAP to CONAFOR in 2001.
The creation of CONAFOR was favorable for the project because it set forestry in a broad
development context and applied modern concepts to achieve a balance between production and
conservation. However, there was a long delay in signing an Amendment to the Loan Agreement
reflecting this institutional change, which resulted in a long disbursement lag for the project.

As discussed above, the project brought about important improvements in the responsible
agencies' technical capacity and operational performance.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Mexican timber is facing an increasingly competitive world market, especially from Chile. Some
communities and ejidos in Mexico have achieved certification of their products, which helps them
gain access to certain international markets for their products. However, this is still only a small
fraction of the market for Mexican timber and saw wood. Also, Mexican communities and ejidos
are at a comparative disadvantage due to the small scale of their production, their relative
isolation, and their relative lack of technical capacity. The key to successful competition lies in
the development of carefully designed, efficient value-added processes, and the achievement of
economies of scale through the association of communities and, possibly, strategic alliances with
the private sector.



                                                     - 14 -

Another factor, not entirely under government control, is conflict among indigenous communities
and ejidos. These conflicts, frequently land-related and often dating back many years, have made
it difficult or impossible to develop project activities in disputed areas in some communities. In
some states, as many as a third of communities and ejidos are engaged in disputes. While
conflicts did not actually prevent PROCYMAF from providing assistance to communities, in some
cases, it made it impossible to consider certain portions of a community's territory for
development because it was in dispute. The GOM has an agency (Procuradoria Agraria) to help
resolve disputes, however, the process of dispute settlement is slow and often ineffective. Local
and regional political competition have often exacerbated conflict and reduced the possibility for
cooperation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Although the Central Government in Mexico has long advocated decentralization, there has been
very little actual devolution of responsibility for forestry activities to States. Most States in
Mexico do not now have the capacity to assume greater responsibility for the sector so that such
responsibility will remain, for the foreseeable future, in the hands of centralized Federal agencies,
deconcentrated offices of such agencies, and, to a limited extent, federations of ejidos and
communities.

Budgetary allocations were often smaller than the estimates at appraisal. Moreover, in Mexican
system, release of the budget is often delayed until the fifth month of the fiscal year, causing
serious operational difficulties for the PCU to implement activities as initially programmed. In
the opinion of the Implementing Agency, GOM's procurement procedures consume considerable
amounts of time.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Strong commitment and action within the implementing agency as shown by the competent and
fully-staffed PCU enabled the project to accomplish project targets satisfactorily.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The shortage of budget funds as well as problems with their timely release were factors in
explaining the relatively low pace of development of the activities and the low rate of
disbursement. The initial period of the project implementation was five years (1997 ­ 2001);
however, partly because the reduced availability of timely funding, the closing date had to be
extended. The project closed on December 31, 2003.

                      Planned vs. Actual Disbursements in Mexican Pesos (million)*
   Source         1997        1998       1999        2000      2001       2002      2003      TOTAL
IBRD                    0         0.51        49.8       13.4     16.6        8.44      43.2     130.95
Local                1.85         2.87        7.15       2.49     2.61        5.85      5.86      28.67
Communities             0         2.28        2.80       4.11     3.62        2.50      2.95      18.26
Total                1.85         5.66      59.79      18.98     22.78       16.79    52.03      177.88



                                                    - 15 -

Original Staff        39.5         42.9        44.5        44.52       41.86                              213.29
Appraisal
Report*
Difference         (37.66)      (37.26)      15.31      (25.54)      (19.08)       16.79      52.03      (35.41)
* The exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report is the annual average provided by Nacional Financiera.



The original estimated project cost was US$ 23.6 million (in 1996 dollars), of which the
Bank-financing accounted for about 70% . The final amount disbursed from the Loan Account
was about US$13.1 Million and the approximate final project cost was approximately US$17.7
million. The allocation to the four components was significantly less than planned. The Bank
financed approximately 74 % and counterpart allocation were provided by the public budget
(61.1%) and beneficiary communities and ejidos (38.9%). The reduced disbursements in dollar
terms was mainly due to a declining Mexican peso vis-a-vis the dollar.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Project implementation was rated as satisfactory overall, and sustainability of project impact was
rated as highly likely. The GOM shows rising commitment to the development of rural areas
and to sound natural resource management through reinforcing the community forestry paradigm
and capitalizing on PROCYMAF experiences. The GOM has recently signed an agreement with
the Bank for a second PROCYMAF project with a total loan value of US$21.3 million over a
four-year period. More importantly, communities themselves are increasingly taking initiative in
accessing the services available from PROCYMAF and other as well as working to develop new
markets, diversify forest production, and add value to products within their communities.

It is important to note that Bank financing in Mexico is non-additional, that is the implementing
agency does not necessarily receive a larger budget allocation than it would without Bank
financing. From a macro perspective, this policy has the benefit of treating all resources the same,
reducing possible distortions in decision making. From a sectoral perspective, however, this
means that sector investment loans do not provide incremental resources for dealing with the
specific problem that the project is designed to treat. Non-additionality also reduces the incentive
an agency has to seek World Bank financing and from the agency perspective, there may even be
a "tax" in the form of the additional effort required to comply with the Bank's fiduciary and
safeguard policies.     It is possible that having a World Bank Loan may provide a small advantage
in the allocation of budgetary resources and the timing of releases, but this effect is difficult to
measure. At the end of the day, Mexican agencies are likely to seek Bank resources only when
they feel the Bank adds value to the project through supervision and technical assistance.
Linkages between grant and loan programs, as in the case of the COINBIO project, may also
make loan projects more appealing.

PROCYMAF has helped build a foundation that would lead to sustainability, particularly in the
following areas.



                                                      - 16 -

1. Increasing social capital of communities and ejidos. PROCYMAF contributed to
    strengthening social organization and governance of ejido and forest communities, which is
   considered to be a precondition for long-term development of community forestry. Based on
   project experience, it is expected that an increasing number of ejidos and communities with
   enhanced social capital will have greater potential to consolidate their productive initiatives,
   improve their operational capacities and management for the exploitation, transformation and
   commercialization of timber and NTFPs other services, while protecting biodiversity and
   forest ecosystems. The Mexican Government is also interested in developing a program of
   payment for environmental services and CONAFOR has taken the lead in developing such a
   program.

2. An increased number of private service providers (PSPs) with more diverse technical areas is
   readily available to support communities and ejidos.

3. The project has fostered developing different spaces for consultation and discussion among
    the public and private sectors, communities, and civil society and they are expected to
    function on their own.

4. Synergy among government forestry programs. PROCYMAF earned recognition as an
    innovative project that generated practical instruments and enriching experiences and case
    studies. This has induced adoption of some of PROCYMAF methodologies and instruments
    in other CONAFOR programs. Effective dissemination of good practices generated by
    different forestry development programs is likely to further strengthen sector policies and
    provide more incentives for the government's support to producers with productive projects.

5. The project has increased the competitiveness of community forest enterprises and the
    opening of new markets for Mexican forest products.

The following issues need to be taken account to further enhance the sustainability of the project.


l Some communities have indicated that the procedures for accessing technical assistance
    through PROCYMAF is excessively bureaucratic and time-consuming. Procedures need to be
    simplified and streamlined.

l Greater availability of investment funds for new productive projects, either as part of project
    cost or to be sought from other sources.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Based on the satisfactory experience gained through PROCYMAF (Community Forestry Project),
a Second Community Forestry Project (PROCYMAF II) has been approved by the World Bank
and signed by the Government of Mexico and is expected to become effective at the end of
(IBRD) FY 2004. The new project will assist an additional 200 communities and ejidos on a
demand-driven basis, and continue assistance to some of the 300 original communities in
Guerrero, Michoacán and Oaxaca.


                                                  - 17 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Rating: Satisfactory.

The Bank provided guidance to complement the implementing agency's project design, including
providing recommendations on non-forestry training in basic business practices, market systems,
financial and economic investment analysis, environmental assessment, and participatory
evaluation, so as to strengthen private technical service providers.

The Bank also made efforts to ensure the involvement of both federal and state government at the
state level in the design of the project by establishing an advisory committee composed of the
SEMARNAP Delegate for Oaxaca, the SEDAF Secretary, and the Head of the COPLADE in
Oaxaca.

7.2 Supervision:

Rating: Satisfactory.

The project has undergone changes of task team leaders during its implementation, but maintained
a competent team of professionals (both Bank staff and consultants) with varied technical areas
engaged in supervision of each aspect of the project. However, compared to the areas of natural
resource management, environmental and social aspects, a stronger business orientation (e.g.,
microenterprise, micro-credit, community enterprise, etc.) is desirable.

The core task team maintained open dialogue with SEMARNAT / CONAFOR to provide
technical assistance and operate procurement and disbursement in a timely manner, which largely
satisfied the client's expectation. Project sites visits were included in most supervision missions.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Rating: Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Rating: Satisfactory.

The Government team made efforts to enhance involvement of federal and state officials working
at the state level in project preparation activities. They prepared Action Plans in accordance with
recommendations provided by Bank, including establishment of an advisory committee at the state
level to facilitate coordination with other programs and projects at the state level, and to provide
information and inputs on project design and implementation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:



                                                  - 18 -

Rating: Satisfactory.

The most important component of this rating is the strong commitment to community forestry
that emerged within the GOM, especially after the creation of CONAFOR. In spite of some
internal rivalries and the unfamiliarity of the community forestry model, the government
maintained and reaffirmed its support for the model over the implementation period.
PROCYMAF's financial performance was generally the strongest among all of CONAFOR's
various programs. Against this, however, other less positive aspects should be weighed including
budgetary shortfalls and delays, the central government's reticence about decentralizing
decision-making to the States and municipalities.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Rating: Satisfactory.

Until 2000, most regulatory issues pertaining to forestry in Mexico were handled by the
Environmental Secretariat (SEMARNAT) and its enforcement arm, PROFEPA. In 2001, the
GOM created the National Forest Commission (CONAFOR) with a broad mandate to promote
sustainable management of Mexican forests and conservation of forest resources, based on a
Strategic Forestry Program with a 25-year horizon, and the National Forestry Program
(2001-2006). The PROCYMAF project was transferred to CONAFOR shortly after its creation.
The creation of CONAFOR was favorable for the project because it set forestry within a broad
development context. However, there was a long delay in signing an Amendment to the Loan
Agreement, which resulted in a long disbursement lag for the project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Rating: Satisfactory

On balance, Borrower performance is assessed as satisfactory. This rating takes into account the
project's overall successful implementation.

8. Lessons Learned


The following lessons are for both the Bank and the Borrower.

Project Design.

q       Community forestry is an effective instrument for sustainable rural development that can
help produce important social, economic and environmental benefits. This model encompasses
the development of social capital (based on traditional forms of governance), a minimum base of
natural capital (forest resources with commercial value), and the development of technical and
administrative capacity (human capital) of the producers. The community typology was a useful
tool for tailoring the project's offerings to specific community needs.as well as to for evaluating
the impact of the intervention.



                                                  - 19 -

q       The inter-community technical and commercial relations contribute significantly to
strengthen community management to achieving a minimum level of scale and capacity to add
value. Hence, a regional vision of the use of natural resources should be fostered. The
interaction among ejidos and communities at different levels of organization and levels of
sophistication have stimulated creation of a technical cooperation network and constitution of
alliances and organizations of with the objectives of production and commercialization of the
timber and non-timber products. This implies a new stage of maturity of community forestry in
Mexico, following a model that seeks to achieve economic scale, greater integration of productive
chains , that enables communities to confront the challenges of increasingly competitive and
specialized global markets.

q       Project experience shows that development of ejido and community forestry have not been
linear and that the cause of structural limitation to access to markets and lay natural capital, a high
percentage of producers cannot easily transit from one level to another in the context of an
economic scale or their alternative products are limited to utilization of non-wood products. The
solutions afforded by PROCYMAF also do not readily apply to communities and ejidos with
degraded or very little natural endowments.

q       It is necessary to address access to investment funds to complement feasibility study of
NTFPs.

Project Implementation.

q       The frequent intervention of promoters and technical support from the PCU in forums and
other regional fora in ejido and community assemblies and their individual efforts to disseminate
and analyze support options and follow-up on performance of productive initiatives have provided
invaluable benefits in the strengthening of community institutions, building up broader and more
democratic social participation in decision making. Additionally, it has contributed to generate or
reestablish the trust of producer groups toward government institutions that operate programs in
the rural sector.

q       The project design does not deal with communities engaged in land conflicts and hence a
significant number of communities and ejidos are excluded from its benefits. This decision
deprives a significant number of communities engaged in conflicts, especially territorial conflicts,
of the benefits of this program. It may provide some incentive to communities embroiled in
conflict to find a way out of the conflict. However, there is also a downside risk in not attempting
to bring such communities into the project: it could create a gap between communities engaged in
conflict and those that are not.

q       The project does not directly benefit the people who live in or near communities or ejidos
but are not members of them and therefore do not own the resources or share in the decisions.
These avecindados may receive indirect benefits in the form of employment and enhanced public
services but the project does not address their needs directly. This issue also raises questions
about exacerbating gaps between richer and poorer, and leaving significant numbers of poor



                                                 - 20 -

people behind in the development process.

q        Many women found employment as a consequence of productive activities supported by
the project. The project design does not directly assist women or help them to achieve a more
active role in community decision making.

q        The viability of the community forestry enterprises depend on their capacity to compete in
a new global market context. The historical experience with private and parastatal companies has
left many communities with an understandable reluctance to engage in partnerships with the
private sector. Hopefully, as communities strengthen their capacity for governance and technical
skills, it will be possible to overcome this fear and establish linkages to private sector
organizations based on respect and mutual advantage between community and private sector. It
is important to continue creating clear and effective strategies that support these social
enterprises, strengthening their decision making and administrative capacities, as well as in
establishing commercial alliances with other productive agents that allow them access to new
local and regional markets.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Comments from NAFIN

Government counterpart funds. During the project cycle, allocation of budget by the Finance
Ministry was often lower than requested by the PCU, which resulted in slower progress and
smaller disbursements than originally planned in PAD despite the capacity of the execution agency
to manage public funds. This also resulted in a later project closing date.

Bank Performance. In general, NAFIN enjoyed an open relationship with the Bank and
appreciated its flexibility and support for solve problems that arose during project execution. The
Bank task manager played an important role to help achieve the project objectives.

Institutional Problems. In transferring the function of executing agency from SEMARNAT to
CONAFOR, an amendment to the Legal Agreement was necessary. Although the Bank tried to
processed the amendment in a timely fashion, there were significant delays in obtaining signatures
from the Government which resulted in a significant disbursement lag that was only remedied
shortly before the project closed.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N.A.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N.A.

10. Additional Information

                                             END NOTES

1. The project's participating states included six states with forest resources with good


                                                  - 21 -

commercial potential. Among them, Oaxaca was selected as the first place for the project to
operate due to its favorable environment, including: (a) strong and well organized forest
communities and ejidos; (b) high biodiversity within the forest areas under community
management that could benefit from protection; (c) experience by communities with private
providers of forestry services; and (d) strong support from the State Governor. The project was
gradually expanded to Guerrero and Michoacán States, which have also established enabling
conditions and full-scale implementation was initiated in those states 2001. In 2003, Jalisco was
also integrated in the operation. In Durango and Chihuahua, the scope of project execution have
been limited to promotional activities for diversification of forest ecosystem products. In the new
operation, PROCYMAF II, the following states will be involved in the project: Durango,
Guerrero, Jalisco, Michoacán, Oaxaca and Quintana Roo.

2. Following Mexican practice, the term "community" as used in this report is synonymous with
"indigenous community" while ejido refers to a communal land-owning unit established under
Mexican law.

3. Until about 1985, many forest communities were obliged to participate in State-mandated
concessions operated by parastatal monopolies. The experience with these concessions was quite
negative since the concessionaires often applied poor management practices and contributed little
or nothing to the benefit of the communities whose resources were being exploited.

4. Each community/ejido has a General Assembly, through which the members identify and define
areas of conservation and specific use of their natural resources. Traditionally, women usually do
not participate in the General Assembly.

5. PROCYMAF financed about 60% of the total cost of these projects, while the remainder was
provided by project beneficiaries.

6. Investments were implemented as follows: Chihuahua (1), Durango (12), Guerrero (5), Jalisco
(2), Michoacán (6), Oaxaca (17).

7. Spring water bottling has proven to be a promising alternative due to growing demand in the
market for bottled water. Women and youth represent 70% of the employees of such enterprises.

8. The total investment amounted to 7.3 million Mexican pesos (about US$730,000; 33% from
PROCYMAF and 67% from PRODEFOR and Alianza del Campo. Although the positive impact
is generally recognized, only one case has so far demonstrated positive effects on employment and
income generation. In Oaxaca, 475 employment has been generated.

9. Six projects operate in Oaxaca, each of which provides between six to ten direct employments
and 50% of them are women.

10. The project did not produce written material in indigenous languages. However, other
audio-visual measures, such as radio and video were used to reach out to target population.




                                                - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                            1
                Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
Increased forest area under improved
management: 50,000 in 1997; 140,000 in         271,731 ha.                       271,731 ha.
1998; 265,000 in 1999; 390,000 in 2000;
515,000 in 2001.

Hectares under conservation by
communities: 5,000 in 1997; 14,000 in 1998;                                      13,370 ha
26,500 in 1999; 39,000 in 2000; 51,500 in
2001.
Number of communities participating in the
project: 50 in 1997; 100 in 1998; 200 in                                         275
1999; 200 in 2000; 200 in 2001.
Number of private providers in the project                                       254
roster: 50 in 1997; 100 in 1998; 150 in 1999;                                    (Oaxaca 113; Guerrero 46; Michoacán 57;
170 in 2000; 190 in 2001.                                                        Jalisco 38)

Number of non-timber forest products
projects successfully implemented: 7 in                                          43
1998; 15 in 1999; 15 in 2000; 15 in 2001.
Percentage of management plans reviewed
within the legally mandated 30 day limit: 60 in                                  n.a.
1997; 70 in 1998; 80 in 1999; 90 in 2000;
100 in 2001.
Annual budgetary allocation by component                                         n.a.
(US$)

1. Assistance to Communities and Ejidos:
1,365 in 1997; 2,145 in 1998; 2,291 in 1999;
2,335 in 2000; 2,113 in 2001.
2. Strengthening of Capacity of Private                                          n.a.
Providers: 277 in 1997; 342 in 1998; 332 in
1999; 329 in 2000; 328 in 2001.
3. Promotion of Non-Timber Forest Products:                                      n.a.
577 in 1997; 607 in 1998; 682 in 1999; 639
in 2000; 717 in 2001.
4. Institutional Strengthening: 2,767 in 1997;                                   n.a.
1,616 in 1998; 1,360 in 1999; 1,416 in 2000;
1,332 in 2001.


Output Indicators:
                                                                            1
                Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                                              - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                           Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
1. Assistance to Communities and Ejidos                     10.25           12.22            119.2
2. Strengthening of Private Service Providers                1.61             0.59            36.6
3. Promotion of Non-timber Forest Products                   3.22             1.46            45.3
4. Institutional Strengthening                               8.49             4.17            49.1

Total Baseline Cost                                         23.57           18.44
                          Total Project Costs               23.57           18.44
                    Total Financing Required                23.57           18.44


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                            0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                            654.60         783.40      200.30          0.00        1638.30
                                  (554.00)        (411.30)     (133.90)        (0.00)      (1099.20)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
Consultants and Studies             (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                            654.60         783.40      200.30          0.00        1638.30
                                  (554.00)        (411.30)     (133.90)        (0.00)      (1099.20)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00                        0.00           0.00         0.00
                                    (0.00)           ()        (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.00          442.60        32.80          0.00        475.40
                                    (0.00)        (284.22)     (18.00)        (0.00)      (302.22)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00       9684.30      1059.00       10743.30
Consultants and Studies             (0.00)         (0.00)     (7195.26)       (0.00)      (7195.26)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00       2212.60         0.00        2212.60
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)     (1988.87)       (0.00)      (1988.87)


                                                - 24 -

    5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00            749.90             0.00             749.90
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)          (237.37)            (0.00)          (237.37)
    6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00            270.00            270.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
        Total                               0.00             442.60           12679.60          1329.00          14451.20
                                           (0.00)            (284.22)         (9439.50)           (0.00)         (9723.72)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Assistance to                7.86         1.08         1.32        7.37         0.94       1.21       93.8      87.0     91.7
Communities and Ejidos
2. Strengthening of Private     1.03         0.58                     0.31         0.01                  30.1      1.7
Service Providers
3. Promotion of                 1.75         0.98         0.50        0.75         0.05       0.46       42.9      5.1      92.0
Non-Timber Forest
Products
4. Institutional                4.36         4.14                     4.69         2.06                  107.6     49.8
Strengthening




                                                           - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


Under PROCYMAF, demand-driven investments were piloted in the states of Guerrero,
Michoacán and Oaxaca, whereby eligible communities and ejidos had access to funds for
feasibility studies, market analysis and development of non-timber forest products (NTFPs). The
results reported here are drawn from an economic analysis of PROCYMAF in Oaxaca. Field
work was conducted during late 2002 by the Institut de Reserches et d´Applications des Methods
de Développement (IRAM), from which a final report was submitted to the project team in May
2003.

 Cost-Effectiveness of Training Investments

 A substantial proportion of project cost (US$10.3 million) financed capacity-building activities
 for communities and ejidos. While research concerning the private and social returns to training
 and technical assistance is scant, it may be instructive to look at returns to investments in
 education for which more evidence is available. Psacharopoulos and Patrinos (2002) report that,
 for a data set consisting of 42 countries (including Mexico), the average rate of return to an
 additional year of schooling is 10 percent, with the highest returns accruing to low- and
 middle-income countries. Furthermore, average returns are highest in Latin America and the
 Caribbean region and Sub-Saharan Africa. Sianesi and Van Reenan (2002) review the existing
 literature regarding the macroeconomic effects of investments in human capital. They find that:
 (1) compelling evidence points to increased productivity through human capital investment; and
 (2) education is found to yield additional indirect benefits to growth (in particular, by stimulating
 physical capital investments and technological development and adoption).

 In Mexico, the contribution of educational inequality to income inequality is second only to
 Brazil among Latin American countries (Lopez-Azevedo 2001). Applying a decomposition
 model to Mexican income inequality over the period 1988 to 1997, Lopez-Azevedo found that
 the gross effect of education (i.e., when considered in isolation) and the marginal effect (i.e.,
 when included in a model with other explanatory variables) provided the highest explanatory
 power among all independent variables in explaining income inequality.


 Table 1: Contribution the Explanation of Earnings Inequality, Mexico 1988-97 (%)
                          1988                 1992                 1996                1997
     Variable
                    Gross    Marginal    Gross   Marginal    Gross    Marginal    Gross   Marginal
 Education           20.2      20.2       26.9      22.3      29.3      22.6       32.6     24.5
 Age                 5.4        5.4       7.2        4.8      6.6        4.6       7.3       4.5
 Hours Worked        1.7        3.8       1.9        3.3      1.3        4.0       1.2       3.5
 Status              12.8       7.6       13.7       7.1      13.7       6.0       15.6      6.5

Source: Lopez-Azevedo (2001)

 In addition to the literature, several factors support the cost-effectiveness of investments in
 training and capacity-building financed under PROCYMAF. First, the demand-driven aspect of



                                                  - 26 -

these investments implies that scarce investment resources flow where they are most needed.
Second, the same demand-driven processes were shown to increase a sense of ownership on the
part of beneficiary communities regarding these investments, especially when the expected
returns to the training are income-generation activities that are grounded in feasibility analyses
and marketing plans, which were also financed under PROCYMAF.

Economic Viability of Pilot Productive Sub-projects

Forest Production:

Forestry production was assessed in four communities in Oaxaca. In three communities
(Santiago Lachivia, San Antonino, San Pedro El Alto), comuneros engaged in the sale of
air-dried sawn lumber, using traditional saw mills which produce from 6,000 to 10,000
board-feet daily. In a fourth community (Pueblos Mancomunados), production technology is
more advanced, the lumber is kiln-dried, and daily production can reach 20,000 board-feet, with
noticeable gains in quality when compared to the traditional methods used in the other three
communities. Summary characteristics of the four communities are given in Table 2.

Table 2: Summary Characteristics of Sampled Communities, Oaxaca
                                            Santiago         San          San Pedro El             Pueblos
                                            Lachivía      Antonino             Alto            Mancomunados
Type of Community        1                  Type 3         Type 3             Type 4               Type 4
No. Inhabitants                               190            400               450                  1,900
Forest Area (Ha.)                            2,800          5,400             28,000                5,000
Forest Area per capita (Ha.)                  14.7          13.5               62.2                 2.6
1Type 3 communities are those which own forest stocks, have authorized Forest Management Plans, and are involved in one
or more phases of forest management. Type 4 communities (in addition to Type 3 characteristics) engage in value-added
activities of forest products and market them directly.

Source: Merlet, et al. 2003

In all four communities, competition from external suppliers, namely Chile and the United States,
is particularly acute. Both of these countries market sawn lumber in Oaxaca at prices below
those of Oaxacan community mills. Furthermore, imported lumber is uniformly kiln-dried and
often judged to be of higher quality than locally obtained lumber. Therefore, the challenge is one
of reducing production costs and improving product quality, particularly through efficiency gains
from technology adoption.

Community counterpart contributions for forestry production investments ranged from 10 to 30
percent. Bank financing was catalytic in supporting feasibility studies, training, marketing plans
and other product development activities, while non-Project sources financed plant and
equipment and other start-up costs associated with the communal forestry production. The
community investments assessed are representative of those financed under PROCYMAF.

Detailed models of communal forestry production were compiled for each community sampled.
The economic analysis focuses on two fronts: (i) internal rate of return; and (2) communal



                                                         - 27 -

distribution of "value-added", defined as gross income, less depreciation and input costs. While
the internal rate of return provides an indicator of the viability of the communal forest
production, the calculation of value-added and its distribution reveals the extent to which each
community "captures" the benefits which accrue to this production. A time horizon of twenty
years was assumed for the analysis. Timber extraction per year is assumed to be equivalent to
the overall growth rate of the forest area managed by each community. Results are reported in
Table 3.

Table 3: Financial Assessment, Community Forestry Production
                                       Santiago          San      San Pedro El            Pueblos
                                       Lachivía       Antonio              Alto   Mancomunados
Total Investment ($)                   1,320,000      932,400       35,270,000         23,730,000
Net Present Value ($)                  1,872,777   23,510,492       61,343,616         23,628,226
                          Per hectare      3,362        4,354             3,408             4,726
Internal Rate of Return (%)                   21         >50                 24                 16
Value-added ($)                          493,694    2,243,244       12,619,205          5,422,178
                     Per comunero ($)      2,598        5,608           28,043              2,854
                  per Ha of forest ($)       176          415               451             1,084
Value-added (% gross income):                 74           90                94                 86
                          Individuals         26           20                40                 37
                  Community-at-large           48           70                54                 49
         Labor (outside of community)           8            4                 7                  3
                    Technical Services         11            4                 2                  1
                       Financial Costs          7            1                 2                  9
                              Taxes            0            1                - 2                 1
Source: Merlet et al. (2003)

The models yield satisfactory internal rates of return for all sampled communities, in excess of
the prevailing opportunity cost of capital. Note that in three of the four communities, the
value-added captured by the community itself exceeds 85%. In all cases, the community-at-large
(vis-à-vis individuals) captures the bulk of the value-added. When viewed on a per hectare basis,
the value-added becomes a proxy for the state of technology utilized by each community. For
example, Pueblos Mancomunados, with its kiln for drying wood and modern mill equipment, is
able to generate a value-added per hectare of forest twice that of San Pedro el Alto ­ also a Type
4 community, even though the latter has thirty times more forested area available.

Non-timber Forest Products (NTFPs):

Under PROCYMAF, training to resin producers was financed, as was a feasibility study for a
resin processing plant in Oaxaca. Pine resin production has several positive attributes, namely: (i)
rural employment generation; (ii) value-added to tropical pine forests which typically produce
otherwise inferior quality lumber; (iii) stabilization of the agricultural frontier; and (iv) incentives
for forest parceling, given the producers' desire to maintain control over a given stock of trees.

Land-use planning has led to protection of springs and other freshwater sources, and water
bottling has arisen as a means of capturing the returns from this natural resource. In some cases,
communities have leveraged their forest production income toward plant and equipment needed



                                                 - 28 -

for this purpose. Summary results for these two types of NFTPs are presented in Table 4.

Table 4: Results of Economic Analysis, NTFPs
                                     Resin Extraction    Water Bottling
Total Investment ($)                        9,750,000          1,954,487
Net Present Value ($)                       28,169,893        4,744,510
Internal Rate of Return (%)                        25                 26
Source: Merlet et al. (2003)

Fiscal Impact
All Bank-financed projects in Mexico operate within existing Federal budget allocations, in
accordance with the tight fiscal policy pursued by the Federal government. The project sought
to improve the management practices of community-managed forests and increase the
valued-added to forest-based production and NTFPs, both of which yield positive revenue flows
via taxation. Furthermore, local revenue generation, which is commonly reinvested by
indigenous communities in public goods and services, can substitute for and thereby reduce the
fiscal outlays from the Federal Government.




                                              - 29 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                       (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year    Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Oct. 4-14, 1994             1    NRM Spec. (1)
              Feb. 26-Mar.10,             5    TTL (1); NRM Spec. (1);
              1995                             Forester. (1); Protected Areas
                                               Spec. (1); FAO/CP Forester (1)
              Jul. 24-Aug. 3,             4    TTL (1); NRM Spec. (1);
              1995                             Forester (1); FAO/CP (1)
              Oct. 29 - Nov. 15,          3    TTL (1); NRM Spec. (1);
              1995                             Forester (1)
              Feb. 12-23, 1996            5    TTL (1); NRM Spec. (1);
                                               Forester (1); Procurement
                                               Analyst (1); FAO/CP Forester (1)

              Mar. 5-9, 1996              3    TTL (1); Forester (1); Consultant
                                               (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              June 22 - July 2,           7    TTL (1); Agriculturist (1);
              1996                             Environment Spec. (1);
                                               Economist (1); NRM Spec.
                                               (1); Procurement Analyst
                                               (1); Consultant (1)

 Supervision

              06/20/1997                  5    TASK MANAGER (1);                     S              HS
                                               NATURAL RES. MGT. SPEC
                                               (1); FORESTER (1);
                                               INDIGENOUS PEOPLE SPEC.
                                               (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                                               (1)
              06/19/1998                  4    TASK MANAGER (1); SOCIAL              S              HS
                                               SCIENTIST (1); CONSULTANT
                                               (1); FAO/CP FORESTER (1)
              09/25/1998                  3    TASK MANAGER (1);                     S               S
                                               FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                               Forester (2); FAO/CP
                                               FORESTER (1)
              10/01/1999                  6    TASK MANAGER (1);                     S               S
                                               NATURAL RESOURCES SPEC.
                                               (1); SR. ECOLOGIST (1);
                                               SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1);
                                               INDIGENOUS COMMUNITY
                                               SPEC. (1); SECTOR LEADER
                                               (1)
              11/13/2000                  4    TASK MANAGER (1);                     S               S
                                               CONSULTANT-SOCIAL (1);



                                                - 30 -

                                                  SOCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                                  FORESTRY SPECIALIST (1)
               09/21/2001                    7    TEAM LEADER (1);                   S    S
                                                  PROCUREMENT (1);
                                                  FORESTRY SPECIALIST (1);
                                                  FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                                  (1); ENVIRONMENT (1);
                                                  INDIGENOUS PEOPLES (1);
                                                  SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT (1)
               05/31/2002                    6    TEAM LEADER (1);                   S    S
                                                  FORESTRY SPECIALIST (2);
                                                  FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                                  (1); SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                                                  (1); PROJECT MANAGEMENT
                                                  (1)
               03/30/2003                    3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                                  TECHNICAL ASSISTANT (1);
                                                  SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1)
               08/02/2002                   12    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                                  CONSULTANT (1); TEAM
                                                  ASSISTANT (1); INDIGENOUS
                                                  PEOPLES SPEC. (1);
                                                  OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                                  LAWYER (1); FINANCIAL
                                                  MANAGEMENT S (1);
                                                  PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                                  (1); SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1);
                                                  CONFLICT MGT. SPEC. (1);
                                                  FORESTRY SPECIALIST (1);
                                                  ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1)


               10/17/1997                    1    NRM Spec. (1)                      S    HS
               02/20/1999                    4    TTL (1); Indigenous Spec. (1);     S    S
                                                  Consultant (1); FAO/CP (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                 156.3                           568.2
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       12.6                            41.5
  Supervision                                116.7                          481.8*
  Total                                      285.6                         1,091.5
* This amount includes BBFAO of value equivalent to US$ 25,000.




                                                   - 31 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating                         Rating (Supplemental GEF)
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
        Community Participation
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating                              Rating (Supplemental GEF)

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating                              Rating (Supplemental GEF)

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Bray, David B. and Leticia Merino 2004 : Los Bosques Comunitarios de México: Logros y
Desafíos [Community Forestry in Mexico: Achievements and Challenges]

Catálogo de especies vulnerables al aprovechamiento forestal en bosques templados del estado de
Oaxaca. [Catalog of Species vulnerable to forestry practices in temperate forests in Oaxaca State]

DeWalt, Billie, F.; Guadarrama Olivera, and J. Betancourt Correa. Mid-Term Evaluation of the
Mexico Community Forestry Project. November 2000.

Fasículo Programa de Educación Continua (Prestadores de Servicios Técnicos y Profesionales)
[Textbook for Continuing Education Program for Professional Service Providers]

Fasículo Programa de Técnicos Comunitarios [Textbook for Community Workers]
IRAM 2003

Leon, Marco Antonio Díaz; Catherine Marielle; Ramon Vera; Ana Lidia Domínguez, Guadalupe
Álvarez 1000 Voces del Monte [Voices of the Mountain] Video and Book

Project Annual Reports by PROCYMAF

Project Appraisal Document. Mexico Second Community Forestry Project. Report No. 26644.
October 25, 2003.

Salazar, Juan Rodriguez et al 2004   Gestión Comunitaria Para el Uso Sustentable de los
Bosques - PROCYMAF Informe Final [Community Management for the Sustainable Use of
Forests PROCYMAF Final Report ]

Staff Appraisal Report. Mexico Community Forestry Project. Report No. 16134-ME. January 21,
1997.




                                             - 34 -

- 35 -

