Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16134-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
JANUARY 21, 1997
Sector Leadership Group and Mexico Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
November 1996
Currency Unit                                    Mexican New Peso
US$ 1.00                                          $ 7.50
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CONAF             Consejo Tecnico Consultivo Nacional Forestal, National Forestry Council in SEMARNAP
CONABIO           Comision Nacional para el Conocimiento y Uso de la Biodiversidad, National Biodiversity
Commission in SEMARNAP
COPLADE           Coordinacion General del Comite Estatal de Planeacion para el Desarrollo, General
Coordination of the State Committee for Development Planning in Oaxaca
DAF               Direccion de Aprovechamiento Forestal, Forestry Utilization Division in the Forestry
Department, in the Sub-Secretariat of Natural Resources in SEMARNAP
DGF               Direccion General Forestal, Forestry Department in the Sub-Secretariat of Natural Resources
in SEMARNAP
FAPATUX           Fabricas de Papel Tuxtepec, Parastatal Pulp Factory in Oaxaca
IDF               Institutional Development Fund
INE               Instituto Nacional de Ecologia, National Ecology Institute in SEMARNAP
NAFIN             Nacional Financiera S. N. C., the Borrower
NTFP              Non-Timber and Non-Traditional Forest Products
PFPA              Procuraduria Federal de Proteccion al Ambiente, Environmental Protection Agency in
SEMARNAP
PROCAMPO          Programa de Apoyos Directos al Campo, Farm Support Payments Program
PROCEDE           Programa de Certificacion de Derechos Ejidales y Titulacion de Solares Urbanos, Program
for Certifying Ejido Rights and Urban Properties
PROAFT            Programa de Accion Forestal Tropical, Tropical Forestry Action Program in SEMARNAP
SAGAR             Secretaria de Agricultura, Ganaderia y Desarrollo Rural, Secretariat of Agriculture,
Livestock and Rural Development
SEDAF             Secretaria de Desarrollo Agropecuario y Forestal, Secretariat for the Development of
Agriculture and Forestry in the State Government of Oaxaca
SEMARNAP          Secretaria de Medio Ambiente, Recursos Naturales, y Pesca, Secretariat of Environment,
Natural Resources, and Fisheries
SHCP              Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico, Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit
Six Priority      Chihuahua, Durango, Guerrero, Jalisco, Michoacan, Oaxaca
States with
Pine-Oak Forest
SNIF              Sistema Nacional de Informacion Forestal, National Forestry Information System
Vice President                   Shahid Javed Burki
Director                         Olivier Lafourcade
Manager                          Michael Baxter
StaffMember                      Gisu Mohadjer
This project has been prepared and appraised by a team composed of: Ms. Gisu Mohadjer, Ms. Augusta Molnar, Ms. Teresa Roncal, Mr. William
Beattie (LASLG); Mr. George Ledec (LATEN); Mr. Ferenc Molnar (LEGLA); Dr. Gerardo Segura, Dr. Ricardo Hemandez, Mr. Victor Sosa, Mr.
Jorge Baez, Ms. Lourdes Chambon, Mr. Arturo Ramirez (SEMARNAP); Mr. Richard Owen (FAO). Consultants have also contributed to project
preparation, notably Mr. Sergio Madrid, Mr. Carlos Hernandez, and Mr. Carlo Bravi. Project design and implementation arrangements have been
improved by the comments and suggestions of the following peer reviewers and advisors: Mr. Shelton Davis (ENVSP); Mr. John Dixon (ENVPE);
Mr. Michael Fowler (LOAEL); Mr. Tom Wiens (LATAD); Mr. Juan Martinez, Ms. Valeria Junho (LATEN); Mr. Mark Cackler (LADCN); Mr.
Mario Aguilar, Ms. Aysegul Akin-Karasapan, and Mr. David Hughart (LATSO).



MEXICO
COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..........................................                                                                                                               i
1. BACKGROUND ..........................................                                                                                                                         1
FORESTRY RESOURCES ...........................................1
COMMUNITY MANAGEMENT OF FORESTRY RESOURCES ..........................................                                                                                            3
POLICY FRAMEWORK ..........................................                                                                                                                      5
Land Tenure andAgricultural Policies ..........................................                                                                                              5
Forestry Policies .......................................... 7
FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS ..........................................                                                                                                                 9
WORLD BANK ACTIVITIES .......................................... I 1
2. PROJECT DESCRIPTION ..........................................                                                                                                               13
BACKGROUND ..................................................................................................................................                                   13
Origin ..........13
Objectives ......... 13
Beneficiaries ......... 14
Government Commitment ..........................................                                                                                                          14
Participation in Project Preparation ..........................................                                                                                           14
SUMMARY PROJECT DESCRIPTION .......................................... 15
DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION .......................................... 16
Assistance  to  Communities and  Ejidos ..........................................                                                                                         16
Strengthening the Capacity of Private Service Providers ..........................................                                                                        17
Promotion of Non Timber Forest Products ..........................................                                                                                        18
Institutional Strengthening ..........................................                                                                                                    19
JUSTIFICATION ..........................................                                                                                                                       21
Rationale for Project Design ..........................................                                                                                                   21
Rationale for Bank Involvement ..........................................                                                                                                 21
Program Objective Categories ..........................................                                                                                                    21
3. PROJECT MANAGEMENT ..........................................                                                                                                                22
IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS ..........................................                                                                                                          22
Line Agencies ..........................................                                                                                                                  22
StaffAgencies ..........................................                                                                                                                   23
Oversight Agencies and Selection Panels ..........................................                                                                                        24
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ..........................................                                                                                                         26
Project Costs ..........................................                                                                                                                  26
Project Financing ..........................................                                                                                                              26
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ..........................................                                                                                                        27
Procurement ..........................................                                                                                                                    27
Disbursement ..........................................                                                                                                                    29
Accounts andAuditing ..........................................                                                                                                           30
MONITORING, EVAL                  UATION, AND  SUPERVISION  ..........................................                                                                         30



4. PROJECT ANALYSIS ..................                                                 32
SOCIAL ANALYsIS ...................................................... 32
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS .................. 32
ECONOMIC AND FISCAL ANALYsIs .....................................                     33
PROJECT BENEFITS ..................................... 3 3
PROJECT RISKS .....................................                                    34
SUSTAINABILITY ............................................................         ..... 3 5
5. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .....................................                36
ANNEXES
PROJECT DESCRIPTION ANNEXES
Annex 1:      Assistance to Communities and Efjidos
Annex 2:       Strengthening the Capacity of Private Sector Providers
Annex 3:       Promotion of Non-Timber Forest Products
Annex 4:      Institutional Strengthening
PROJECT MANAGEMENT ANNEXES
Annex 5:       Cost Tables
Annex 6:       Flow of Funds
Annex 7.       Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 8:       ProjectMonitoring, Evaluation, and Reporting
PROJECTANALYSISANNEXES
Annex 9:       Social Assessment and Participation Plan
Annex 10:      Project Design Options
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILES
Annex 11:      Documents in the Project Files
MAPS
IBRD 28179    Mexico: Pine-Oak Forests in Oaxaca
IBRD 28404    Mexico: Major Ecosystem Types
IBRD 28405    Mexico: Temperate and Tropical Forests
IBRD 28406    Mexico: Physical Features and Transportation - State of Oaxaca



MEXICO
COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                       Nacional Financiera S. N. C. (NAFIN)
Guarantor:                      United Mexican States
Implementing Agency:            Secretaria de Medio Ambiente, Recursos Naturales,
y Pesca (SEMARNAP)
Beneficiary:                    Not Applicable
Poverty Category:               Program of Targeted Interventions
Loan Amount:                    US$ 15.0 million
Terms:                          LIBOR-based single currency variable rate US
Dollar loan, with a grace period of five years, level
repay,ment of principal, and a final maturity of 15
years
Commitment Fee:                 0.75 percent on undisbursed credit balances,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver
Financing Plan:                 See Para. 3.16
Net Present Value:               See Para. 4.5-4.6
Maps:                           IBRD 28179; IBRD 28404; IBRD 28405;
IBRD 28406
Project ID No.:                 MX-PA-7700






MEXICO
COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. BACKGROUND
1.1   Mexico is unique in that between 70 and 80 percent of its 55 million hectares of
forest are under communal ownership by 8,000 forest ejidos and indigenous communities.
This unusually extensive communal ownership of Mexico's forests poses important
challenges for the sustainable development and conservation of forestry resources. The
Government has taken steps in the last five years to remove distortions in the policy
framework that were negatively affecting the forestry sector, and to put in place
streamlined institutional mechanisms to support the development of the sector.
FORESTRY RESOURCES
1.2   Forests and wildlands cover 72 percent of Mexico's territory. Forests in Mexico
fall into the following major categories: temperate coniferous and broadleafed; tropical
evergreen, semi-evergreen and deciduous; arid and semiarid; and wetlands. The temperate
and tropical forests cover 55 million hectares, or 25 percent of Mexico's territory. Sixty
percent (31.8 million hectares) are classified as temperate, of which two-thirds are mixed
coniferous forests, and the rest broadleafed or cloud forests. The mixed coniferous forests
are distributed along the most important mountain ranges of the Sierra Madre Oriental,
Sierra Madre Occidental, Sierra Madre del Sur, and Eje Neovolcanico, and are mainly
concentrated in the states of Chihuahua, Durango, Michoacan, Jalisco, Guerrero, and
Oaxaca.
1.3   Tropical forests include tropical evergreen and serni-evergreen forests (5.8 million
hectares), of which eighty percent are located in the states of Campeche, Chiapas, Oaxaca,
Quintana Roo, and Veracruz. Tropical deciduous forests (11 million hectares) occur
mainly in the coastal plains of the Pacific Coast, the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, and the north
of the Yucatan Peninsula. There are also small areas of mangrove stands scattered along
the Gulf of Mexico and the Pacific Coasts. Arid and semiarid areas are scattered
throughout the northern and central states.
1.4   Based on slope, quality of resource and legal zoning status, 21 million hectares of
forest have been identified as having potential for sustainable productive use for



2
commercial timber. Of this total, only 7 million hectares are under management. These
forests and wildlands hold an extraordinary richness of flora and fauna in diverse
ecosystems over a wide range of altitudes and rainfall patterns.
1.5    Over the past five decades, wildlands have declined considerably. Traditional
systems of shifting cultivation, which in some cases are unsustainable, can be the basis of
long term management. However, there is clear evidence that the continued deforestation,
estimated recently at 620,000 to 680,000 hectares per year, is resulting in conversion of
forest lands to less productive uses with negative environmental externalities. As
documented in the Mexico Resource Conservation and Forestry Sector Review (Grey
Cover Report No. 13114-ME, March 31, 1995), the resource base is also underutilized
and degraded.
1.6   Environmental and social values and the commercial potential of non-traditional
products have been largely ignored, even though these combined values greatly exceed
timber and alternative use values alone. Data is available on the production of traditionally
traded non-timber and non-traditional forest products (NTFPs), such as chicle,
mushrooms, resin, orchids, asparagus, edible palms, peppers, gladioli bulbs, yuca, nopal,
oregano, heno, nogal, honey and oak products, but data is not available on non-traditional
NTFPs. Examples of these include traditional medicines, herbs, edible fruits and seeds,
flavorings, fibers, dyes, essences, fragrances, and insects. The recorded production of
NTFPs is highest in the temperate forests (38,000 tons per annum), followed by output in
the arid/semiarid formations (17,500 tons per annum), and the tropical moist formations
(12,800 tons per annum).
1.7   The state of Oaxaca covers 9.5 million hectares (4.8 percent of national territory)
in southern Mexico and is bordered by the states of Veracruz and Puebla to the north-
northeast, Chiapas to the east, Guerrero to the west, and the Pacific Ocean to the south.
Two of Mexico's principal mountain ranges, the Sierra Madre del Sur and Sierra Madre
Oriental, meet in Oaxaca, creating a unique geography of temperate mountain terrain
juxtaposed with tropical vegetation as well as more temperate coastlands. Oaxaca' s
vegetation ranges from desert brush to temperate pines, to humid jungle and mangroves.
1.8   Forests and other natural vegetation cover 7.1 million hectares of Oaxaca (74
percent of state territory). About five million hectares (72 percent of state forest cover)
are made up of temperate and tropical forests, which represent 9 percent of the national
forest cover, and makes Oaxaca the state with the third highest quantity of forests.
Temperate forests, primarily pine and oak, cover 2.7 million hectares of Oaxaca and
represent 53 percent of state forest cover. Tropical forests cover 2.4 million hectares,
representing 47 percent of state forest cover. In addition, Oaxaca has 28,000 hectares of
arid brush and related cover, and 2,300 hectares of wetlands. The state has 1.9 million
hectares (27 percent of state forest cover) of degraded forest, which includes semi-
forested areas encroached upon by farming, grazing, timber extraction, and forest fires.



3
1.9   Besides Oaxaca, the other five priority states with pine-oak forests are Chihuahua,
Durango, Jalisco, Michoacan, and Guerrero. These five states comprise about 57 rnillion
hectares (29 percent of Mexico's land area) and have extensive pine-oak and other forest
resources. The combined area of temperate (mostly pine-oak) forest in these five states is
about 17.5 million hectares (31 percent of these states' land area). Chihuahua has the
most extensive temperate forests (about 7 million hectares), followed by Durango (about 5
million hectares), Jalisco and Guerrero (about 2 million hectares each), and Michoacan
(1.5 million hectares). These five states also contain approximately 4.8 million hectares of
tropical dry and moist forests, as well as about 12.7 nillion hectares of other natural
ecosystems (including grasslands, deserts, and wetlands). Taken together, natural
ecosystems (excluding converted or highly degraded areas) still cover approximately 69
percent of Durango; 68 percent of Chihuahua; 55 percent of Guerrero; 48 percent of
Michoacan; and 44 percent of Jalisco.
COMMUNITY MANAGEMENT OF FORESTRY RESOURCES
1.10  Article 27 of the 1917 Constitution defines three basic categories of land rights:
ejido, communal property, and small private property. Ejidos constitute a land grant for
usufruct to a population group, and until the constitutional reforms of 1992, ejido land
essentially belonged to the state and could not be sold. Communal property is based on
the historical rights of pre-Hispanic indigenous communities who have maintained their
traditional communal property structure. Small private property is privately owned and is
subject to size limits according to the quality of the land and type of crop or economic
activity.
1.11  Over 8,000 communities and ejidos throughout the country have forestry resources
within their boundaries, and about 5,000 of these exploit their forests commercially. Other
communities and ejidos use their forests as a source of fuelwood, medicinal plants,
foodstuffs, household construction materials and utensils, and frames and posts for
agricultural use. Forests have an important present and potential role to play for these
communities and ejidos: (a) commercially as a source of timber and non-timber products
for domestic consumption or export; (b) as the source of a range of subsistence and
informally-marketed products; (c) as religious and cultural sacred sites of the different
indigenous, ethnic groups in forested areas; and (d) as a resource base for tourism and
recreational enterprises benefiting these communities and ejidos.
1.12 Communities have been given more recognition as legitimate local governments.
Some communities have begun to prepare communal statutes that formalize customary
law agreements regarding political organization, social values, land boundaries and tenure,
natural resource management, and identification of sacred sites. These statutes could
serve as a vehicle for formally recording aspects of the forest management plans relevant
to cultural values. Most commercial resource allocation decisions revolve around timber
extraction. A few communities are involved seasonally in the lucrative white mushroom
trade, but other foodstuffs and medicinal plants are at present low volume, low market
value products.



4
1.13  Of the 1,300 to 1,500 communities and ejidos in Oaxaca, an estimated 40 percent
have temperate forest holding within their boundaries, and 228 communities and eight
ejidos have significant pine-oak forest areas within their boundaries large enough to
warrant commercial exploitation (ranging from 500 to 20,000 hectares and averaging
about 5,000 hectares per community).
1.14  There is strong ethnic and cultural diversity among the 236 communities and ejidos
with pine-oak forest in Oaxaca, which come from six of Oaxaca's 16 ethnicities, namely
the Zapoteca, Mixteca, Nahuatl, Cuicateco, Chinanteca, and Mixe. Some of the common
characteristics of these communities and ejidos include: (a) strong cultural values
regarding forest resources; (b) strong values for allocating a share of forest profits to
social goods and employment; (c) existence of sacred sites within communal forest areas;
(d) preference for employing community members as technical forest advisors to ensure
cultural values are reflected in forest management; and (e) an independent social and
cultural identity of individual communities vis-a-vis other communities, even those of the
same general ethnic group. There is wide variation in the extent to which a broad group
of community and ejido members participate in forestry decisions. Women, in general, do
not participate in the forestry sector, although they are involved in fuelwood and non-
timber product collection. Only in the more diversified forestry enterprises have women
found roles in accounting and administrative duties. Some of the more developed
enterprises employ community members as technical forest advisors.
1.15  Of these 236 communities and ejidos with significant pine-oak forest areas within
their boundaries, 114 manage 550,000 hectares of pine-oak forests (only 20 percent of the
state's total pine-oak forests) and have management plans, with 41 selling standing timber,
43 harvesting timber, and 30 harvesting and processing timber in their own mills. Ten
communities are organized into inter-community unions with integrated forest enterprises.
The other communities and ejidos have important forestry resources, but do not manage
any commercial timber extraction.
1.16  Oaxaca is one of the poorest states in Mexico, with annual per capita income of 40
percent of the national average, and in Oaxaca the indigenous communities are among the
poorest. Land and agricultural policies, combined with high poverty levels in the
communities and ejidos of Oaxaca exert strong pressure to expand agricultural production
to forested areas. At the same time, the high levels of out-migration in search ofjobs has
reduced the pressure on the resource base, and has resulted in some agricultural areas
remaining fallow. On balance, the rate of deforestation in Oaxaca seems to be decreasing.
1.17  In the pine-oak forests of Oaxaca, the timber stand in 1994 represented 135.6
million cubic meters, with an annual increment of 1.9 million cubic meters. In that year
cutting permits were authorized for 1.1 million cubic meters, with actual extraction of 0.4
million cubic meters. This extraction is only 23 percent of the annual increment, 38
percent of the authorized cut, and about two-thirds of the processing capacity in the state.
Clearly there is vast potential for increased sustainable timber extraction in Oaxaca.



5
1.18  Access by communities to information and technical assistance on forestry issues is
limited. In recent years, most government-financed technical assistance for forestry has
been privatized. Many of the government employees have fulfilled the education and
experience requirements to work as private providers of forestry services, and have
registered in the national forestry registry, the Registro Nacional Forestal. These private
providers provide a range of forestry services, including the preparation of forestry
management plans, annual cutting plans, and tree markings. There are at present no
registration requirements for the provision of other technical services to forest resource
owners, such as forest product processing, accounting, marketing, and environmental
assessments.
1.19 About half of the pine-oak area under management in Oaxaca has benefited from
the assistance of 6 companies and 17 individuals registered as private providers of forestry
services, as well as unregistered private providers of non-forestry services and community
forestry specialists. Private providers have traditionally been paid as a percentage of the
extracted timber, and communities indicate that their use of private provider services is
limited by the number of private providers, and the range of services they provide, rather
than by cash flow constraints. While some of the private providers are able to provide
high quality advisory services, their skills need substantial upgrading, and their services
need closer monitoring by the communities and forestry institutions.
1.20  There is strong potential for communities and ejidos to improve their market niche.
Markets for wood for the construction industry have been restricted due to the economic
downturn starting in December 1994, although the devaluation of the peso has given
Mexican wood a price advantage over imported wood. The limited access of communities
and ejidos to diverse markets is related to a number of factors: the high cost of transport
due to lack of road infrastructure; the inability of forestry enterprises to supply wood of a
given quality and quantity on a timely basis; the lack of working capital for harvesting and
processing; and the lack of technical knowledge. Most communities are selling high
quality pine into an undifferentiated market, even though there is strong domestic and
international demand for higher value products. Cash flow for harvesters is also uncertain,
since many of the smaller processing industries that buy wood from communities have
their own marketing problems and are often unable to pay on time.
POLICY FRAMEWORK
Land Tenure and Agricultural Policies
1.21  Land tenure policies have generally had a negative impact on the forests in
Mexico. The process for allocating land and resource rights has had far-reaching
implications for efficiency in land and resource management. Parceling gave the ejido
member exclusive use of an area of land. However, in order to maintain the right to use
the land, the ejidatario had to work his land. Legally, the ejidatario could not rent, lease,
or sell his land nor hire others to work it. In practice, informal land markets existed in



6
many ejidos but ejido land is undervalued relative to private holdings. In Oaxaca, where
there is a high concentration of indigenous communities and only a few forestry ejidos, the
incentive to clear forest to create parcels has been lower.
1.22 The Agrarian Reform of 1934, which operationalized Article 27 of the
Constitution, promoted the occupation and clearing of forest lands. By legally focusing on
agricultural parcels, it ignored forest lands, thus giving open access to those who could in
fact convert land to an agricultural or livestock use, a precondition for obtaining a parcel.
This, combined with the forest concession policies, was a main force underlying the high
deforestation rates that started in the 1940s, while preventing the privatization of forests.
The Constitutional Reform of 1947 also followed this pattern. For example, forest lands
were not included in the complex system of land distribution and demarcation, and the
overall result of the lack of policies on forest preservation was a run on forested lands and
the advance of the agricultural frontier.
1.23  Oaxacan forests were seriously affected by the Agrarian Reform of 1934 and the
Constitutional Reform of 1947, where land that was either indigenous or nominally state-
owned was claimed as private land. Such land claims were most common in broadleaf
forests, but also occurred in pine-oak forests. Because these laws focused exclusively on
agricultural land, rural residents were encouraged to convert land to agricultural or
livestock use to establish recognizable claims.
1.24  Rapid growth in the agricultural sector in the late 1940s through the mid-1960s
encouraged forest conversion. During this time the agricultural sector grew more than 4
percent a year, outstripping population growth and surpassing any other Latin American
country. By 1965, most of the better quality land was under cultivation and productivity
per hectare showed no further improvement. The cumulative result was that between
1965 and 1980, agricultural Gross Domestic Product grew only at 2.4 percent per year,
slower than population growth. Demand for grains surpassed production capacity and
Mexico became a net importer of grains. The livestock sector expanded mainly between
1972 and 1985. The number of beef cattle grew by 15 percent, matching growth in
consumption which was 16 percent. The area devoted to fodder production also increased
by more than 100 percent between 1970 and 1985.
1.25  Direct and indirect subsidies to stimulate production included direct investment in
the agriculture and livestock sector, producer subsidies, and promotion of production
activities through parastatals. An extensive network of subsidies developed supporting:
fertilizers, pesticides, fuel, electricity, credit, water, seeds, and crop insurance. The Farm
Support Payments Program (Programa de Apoyos Directos al Campo; PROCAMPO) was
initiated in 1994 to assist farmers to move to more profitable land uses by channeling a
limited-term payment on a parcel basis to farmers formerly qualifying for crop subsidies.
In states like Oaxaca, however, where records are imperfect, farmers had incentives to
clear new parcels, some in forested areas, in order to become eligible for limited-term
payments on these parcels.



7
1.26  The reform of Article 27 of the Constitution in 1992 introduced fundamental
changes in land rights: land redistribution was eliminated, transactions of ejido lands were
authorized, ejido farmers were given the right to sell their lands, and agrarian courts were
created to solve land claim conflicts. With the new law, an ejido can decide to distribute
agricultural land parcels to its members under full private ownership or to continue with
the present system. However, in common-use lands, where most of the forests are found,
land cannot be parceled or sold. An explicit objective of the reform is to create a climate
for more sustainable common resource management, encouraging ejido members to
rationalize forest management and use. Under the reform, they are also encouraged to
seek joint ventures with private investors, with the certainty that their rights over the
common-use lands are secure. This lays the groundwork to avoid the open access
problems of the past.
Forestry Policies
1.27  Forestry policies have attempted to exert a countervailing force to land reform and
agricultural and economic policies, with partial success. Mexico has had forestry
legislation since 1884, but in practice this has often been overridden by other policies.
Most of the legislation has been heavy on regulation and de facto control, limiting the
users' decision making power over the resource. Regulations imposed costs on forest
users and added to the incentives for conversion of forests to agricultural land.
1.28  The 1884 Regulations were oriented mainly to the regulation of levels of
commercial harvesting, with the objective of sustaining yields through a complex system
of land classification and use regulations. In the late 1800s, concessions were opened to
large (primarily U.S.) lumber firms, mostly in the northern areas of Mexico's pine-oak
forests. At the turn of the century and just before the Mexican Revolution, these firms
were expropriated and their mills turned over to national owners, who since then have
generally faced problems due to lack of sufficient timber supply and inefficient
administration. One legacy of this period is the continued location of most timber
processing plants away from the resource, near centers of consumption. In part, this was
the result of the extensiveness of extraction (once one source of supply was logged out,
the industry shifted extraction to another more distant location) and the desire to avoid
labor problems associated with drawing upon the same labor pool for extraction and
processing. Now that industry supplies are more limited than before, the transport costs
for the processing centers in the north are quite high relative to the available source of raw
material. In Oaxaca, with the exception of some remote communities in the southern part
of the state, distances from communities to potential buyers are much shorter, and high
costs are related to inefficiencies in harvesting, processing and transport.
1.29  After the 1910 revolution, the forests of Mexico were largely transferred to ejidos
and indigenous communities, although the process was slow and continued well into the
1970s. In 1926, the first Forest Law was introduced with a focus on conservation. This
law was progressively conservationist for its time, but was largely neutralized by the land



8
reform that channeled public resources toward crop and livestock production and favored
land allocation to those without forest cover or standing trees on their holdings.
1.30  The legal passing of actual control of the forest resources to the ejidos and
communities was only possible with the 1942 Forestry Law, and even then government
control and interference continued to be heavy, including the establishment of parastatals
that essentially had monopoly power over management and harvesting of the forests.
Large haciendas and their forests were expropriated and, while ownership rights were
legally retained by the federal government, usufruct rights to the trees and land resource
were turned over to ejidos and communities. At the same time, private forest products
manufacturing firms were prohibited from owning forest lands, which effectively left them
dependent on ejido and community suppliers, as well as the small private landowners. The
main parastatal established during this period in Oaxaca was the Fabricas de Papel
Tuxtepec (FAPATUX), a pulp factory.
1.31  The 1986 Forestry Law introduced much greater environmental regulation within
the context of the management plans, and gave the Government a stronger role in plan
approval and monitoring. The 1986 Forestry Law continued the spirit of heavy state
intervention initiated in the 1942 Forestry Law through management plans, and cutting,
transport, processing, and selling permits. This intervention was justified by the view that,
left to their own, communities would not be able to manage their forests in the public
interest. The law also restricted any change of land use in fragile lands or public forests
and reserves. The 1986 Forestry Law did not include technical norms in its regulations,
which helped create a high level of insecurity among forest resource owners regarding
their legal rights.
1.32  The policies related to forestry deprived the private sector of a resource base and
created a three way split of the sector: the communities and ejidos held most utilization
rights to the resource; the public sector maintained control of the resource and hence had
the power to legislate and, theoretically at least, to regulate the management of the
resource and administration of the sector as a whole; and the private sector housed most
of the industry. This arrangement, coupled with poorly implemented intervention by
government regulatory agencies, virtually guaranteed the conflict and distrust that
effectively crippled the sector and still limits relations today. It placed most of the
country's forest resources in the hands of poor, unskilled farmers, but failed to provide the
needed resources for proper management. In Oaxaca, the main communities supplying
FAPATUX effectively blocked renewal of the concession to this parastatal. This fight
gave them political will for some to form their own processing unions.
1.33  Mexico passed a new Forestry Law in 1992 and the implementing regulations were
issued in 1994. This was a sweeping revision of previous legislation and had as its main
objectives the transformation of government forestry agencies from executors and direct
interventionists into more normative organizations. As such, the new law eliminated many
executive responsibilities and allowed for decentralization to state level agencies. The
major change was the transfer of forest management, conservation, protection and



9
improvement responsibilities to the forest land owners and producers, leaving the
Government with a normative and supervisory role. Federal agencies would no longer
provide direct technical assistance services to the forest owners and producers, or be
directly involved in the transportation, warehousing or manufacturing of forest products.
As part of these legal changes, the Government sold off any remaining parastatal forest
products firms.
1.34 In March 1996, Mexican President Zedillo announced the Forestry Program for
1995 to 2000, with the dual objectives of conservation and protection of forestry
resources, and the increase of forestry's contribution to the Gross Domestic Product. The
conservation and protection program includes: prevention of forest fires; disease
prevention and control; technical assistance to forestry communities; special plantations
and production of charcoal; increased inspection; and decentralized permitting procedures.
The program to increase productivity includes: the establishment of a Fund to provide
seed money for road building, payments to private providers of forestry services,
integrated production, and diversified use of the forestry resources including non-timber
products, and restoration of critical areas; credit and financing programs with different
government institutions, development banks, and agencies, to stimulate the sector; training
and technical assistance for communities and industries; and development of a market
information system.
FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS
1.35  As part of the consolidation of environmental activities under the Zedillo
administration, responsibility for forestry activities was shifted from the Secretariat of
Agriculture and Rural Development (Secretaria de Agricultura y Desarrollo Rural;
SAGAR) to the Secretariat of Environment, Natural Resources, and Fisheries (Secretaria
de Medio Ambiente, Recursos Naturales y Pesca; SEMARNAP). Within SEMARNAP,
several agencies have responsibility for forestry related activities. The Forestry
Department (Direccion General Forestal; DGF) within the Sub-Secretariat of Natural
Resources has primary responsibility for forest utilization and management, forest
protection, forest development, and commercial reforestation. The Forest Utilization
Division within DGF (Direccion de Aprovechaniiento Forestal; DAF), is in charge of
forest utilization and management. The National Forestry Council (Consejo Tecnico
Consultivo Nacional Forestal; CONAF) serves as the interface between the Government,
private sector, academics, and non-governmental organizations. The Tropical Forestry
Action Plan Program (Programa de Accion Forestal Tropical; PROAFT) funds activities in
tropical forests. The Department of Soil Conservation and Restoration (Direccion
General de Conservacion y Restauracion de Suelos) carries out land use planning activities
that include forested areas and watersheds. The Sub-Secretariat of Planning assists the
Sub-Secretariat of Natural Resources with forestry policies and plans.



10
Figure 1. Federal Institutions in the Forestry Sector
SEMARNAP
Sub-     Sub-Secretariat of         INE  PFPA                        CONABIO
Secretariat  Natur Resources
of            I
Planning    I           I
Forestry    Department of Soil            CONAF  PROAFT
Department  Conservation
Forest Utilization
Division
1.36 SEMARNAP also has three autonomous agencies that are involved in the forestry
sector. The National Ecology Institute (Instituto Nacional de Ecologia; INE) is
responsible for the review and approval of the environmental impact aspects of forestry
management programs for both commercial forests and natural protected areas, an activity
which is carried out by the agency at state level. The Environmental Protection Agency
(Procuraduria Federal de Proteccion al Ambiente; PFPA) is responsible for enforcing
compliance with the forestry management plans, an activity which is carried out by the
agency at state level, and audited at the federal level. The National Biodiversity
Commission (Comision Nacional de Aprovechamiento de la Biodiversidad; CONABIO) is
responsible for biodiversity uses and products.
1.37 In line with other Government Secretariats, SEMARNAP is planning the general
deconcentration and decentralization of its activities. The current stage is the
strengthening of the state level institutions and the deconcentration of activities and
resources from SEMARNAP in Mexico City to the SEMARNAP state delegations. This
has already been completed for forestry activities. The next stage is the decentralization of
activities and resources from the SEMARNAP state delegations to the agencies of the
state governments. The final stage is the merging of the resources and responsibilities of
the SEMARNAP state delegations and the agencies of the state governments. Progress
will not be uniform, but will depend on the capacity of each state. SEMARNAP expects
to complete the first two stages in Oaxaca during the life of the project.
1.38  The different agencies within SEMARNAP have been given full responsibility for
the forestry sector, but while these new agencies have large mandates, they are uniformly
understaffed and underfunded. Institutional strengthening of the federal institutions within
the sector is imperative. While coordination is theoretically easier than it was when the
agencies were spread across different ministries, better coordination within SEMARNAP
is now necessary.
1.39  At the state level, the activities and partial resources of the former Sub-Delegation
of Forestry in SAGAR have been transferred to the SEMARNAP delegations within each



11
state. In the case of Oaxaca, the mandate of the former Sub-Delegation of Forestry has
been expanded to include all natural resources, but the human and financial resources were
not transferred from SAGAR and their lack is a constraint to the proper functioning of the
Sub-Delegation. SEMARNAP Oaxaca also includes the Sub-Delegation of Planning
which is in charge of all training, and the Sub-Delegation of Environment, which is related
to INE and is charged with the environmental review of forestry management plans.
PFPA has its own Delegation in Oaxaca.
Figure 2. Forestry Institutions in Oaxaca
SEMARNAP Delegation in Oaxaca (Federal)           SEDAF (State)
__________________l ___ I_____ ___ ___ … *1
Sub-D)elegation  Sub-Lelegation  Sub-Delegation  PFPA
of Planning    of Natural     of Environment  Delegation
Resources
1.40  The State Secretariat for the Development of Agriculture and Forestry (Secretaria
de Desarrollo Agropecuario y Forestal; SEDAF) is the state agency in Oaxaca involved in
forestry activities, and focuses primarily on reforestation. SEMARNAP Oaxaca, which
includes the INE and PFPA delegations, and SEDAF, are weak institutions. While
extremely capable, the handful of senior people who work in these institutions need
support from technicians and administrators, and more resources to carry out their
mandates.
WORLD BANK ACTIVITIES
1.41  The Government and the Bank have had a long involvement in the forestry sector
and agree that for poverty and environmental reasons the forestry sector in Mexico cannot
be ignored, and must be supported.
1.42 Between 1989 and 1993, the Bank financed the Mexico Forestry Development
Project (Loan 3115-ME) in the two northern forest-rich states of Chihuahua and Durango.
This project was closed due to a failure to meet its development objectives, as
documented in the Implementation Completion Report (Report No. 14625; June 29,
1995). The lessons learned from this project include the following:
(a)   Inadequate environmental and social guidelines at the Bank and in Mexico resulted
in a three year delay in project implementation due to conditionality regarding an
environmental baseline study. Since then, the Government has enacted the
Forestry Law of 1992 and its associated regulations. At the Bank, Operational
Directives have been issued on environmental topics, but not on Participation
Plans.
(b)   An adequate social assessment and plan for stakeholder participation was not
carried out during preparation, hampering the dialogue with communities, and



12
local and international non-governmental organizations. The Community Forestry
Project has carried out a full social assessment at the national level, and at the state
level in Oaxaca, and discussions have been held with non-governmental
organizations based in Oaxaca and Mexico City.
(c)   Lack of state government participation and commitment to the project hampered
project implementation. The Community Forestry Project has had strong support
from the Governor of Oaxaca, who has established a State Coordinating
Commission for the project with representatives of the most relevant state level
Secretariats.
(d)   Even though the administration changed between project appraisal and
negotiations, the project was not reappraised, leading to a lack of ownership, and
inadequate project implementation procedures. The Community Forestry Project
has been prepared with the new administration within the new institutional
framework in Mexico, and anticipates the Government's policy of deconcentration
and decentralization.
(e)   The project never received adequate budgetary resources. The Community
Forestry Project has already been assigned a budget for retroactive financing and
for the first year of project implementation, and there is strong commitment to
continue providing budgetary support.
1.43  Recognizing the complexity of the sector and its need for a more clearly defined
strategy, the Government requested Bank assistance to carry out a sector study, finalized
as the Mexico Resource Conservation and Forestry Sector Review (Grey Cover Report
No. 131 14-ME; March 31, 1995). This joint effort identified several key constraints to
the development of the forestry sector, including: (a) lack of adequate transport and
production infrastructure; (b) lack of information on business opportunities, markets, and
technologies; (c) lack of timely credit on appropriate terms; (c) undifferentiated product
markets and price volatility; (d) uncertainty regarding land tenure and boundary
demarcations; (e) underutilization of non-timber and non-traditional forest resources; (f)
poorly trained community and ejido resource managers and workers; and (g) the loss of
resources as a result of deforestation and the loss of biodiversity. The sector study has
shown that forestry has a much greater economic potential than is being realized, a large
share of which could reach the poorest communities and ejidos.
1.44  Based on this analysis of constraints and economic potential, a strategy has been
developed for the sector on which the Government and the Bank agree. The Government
has already announced its strategy for the sector, and has requested Bank support for this
pilot operation that could lead to similar operations in the other five states with pine-oak
forests. This project builds on prior experience, sector work, and other work such as the
ejido-to-ejido training supported by the Institutional Development Fund Grant (IDF Grant;
Grant Number TF 28855), and continuing dialogue and consultation with stakeholders in
the sector.



13
2. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
BACKGROUND
Origin
2.1   This proposed project was prepared based on the recommendations of a workshop
held to discuss the findings of the Grey Cover Mexico Resource Conservation and Forest
Sector Review (Report No. 13114-ME; March 31, 1995). At that workshop
representatives of the federal government, state governments, communities, ejidos, non-
governmental organizations, academics, and others gathered to discuss the
recommendations presented in the Sector Review, and agree on next steps. The
workshop confirmed the need for a pilot operation to provide technical assistance and
training to the communities, to strengthen the private sector providers of services, to
enhance opportunities for testing the potential of non-timber and non-traditional forest
products, as well as strengthening Government approval and monitoring functions.
2.2   Oaxaca was selected as an appropriate site for this pilot operation due to: strong
and well organized forestry communities and ejidos which own 90 percent of the forestry
resources within the state; important forestry resources within the state, including pine-
oak forests with commercial potential; high biodiversity within the forestry areas under
community management, that could benefit from protection; experience by communities
with private providers of forestry services, which could be further developed; successful
sustainable use of some non-timber forest products such as white mushrooms; and strong
support from the Governor of Oaxaca.
Objectives
2.3   The overall objective of the project is to support the implementation of key
elements in the Government's redefined natural resource management strategy. Specific
objectives of the project are to: (a) improve natural resource management and
conservation by community and ejido forestry resource owners; and (b) increase the range
of forestry-based income generating options available to them. To this end, the project
would (a) strengthen the capacity of communities and ejidos to manage their forest
resource base; (b) strengthen the capacity of the private sector to provide forestry services
to communities and ejidos; (c) design strategies to promote timber, non-timber, and non-
traditional products from community and ejido forests; and (d) strengthen the federal and
state institutions working in forestry conservation and development.



14
Beneficiaries
2.4   The primary beneficiaries would be participating forestry communities and ejidos
in Oaxaca, who would apply to participate in the technical assistance and training
program, and who would be eligible for project activities on the basis of the forestry
resources under their control, their use of those resources, and the quality of their
proposals for technical assistance. Other beneficiaries would include: the private providers
of services to the communities and ejidos, who would receive training and certification;
communities and ejidos who could apply for funds to research and develop timber and
NTFP; other communities and ejidos who would be involved in the exchange of
experiences with each other; and state and federal institutions involved in the forestry
sector.
Government Commitment
2.5   During preparation the project has enjoyed the strong support of the Governments
of Mexico and the State of Oaxaca. During the identification mission, SEMARNAP
indicated that an operation focused on improving community management of forestry
resources was a priority in the Secretariat's work program, and requested that project
preparation be accelerated. The Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (Secretaria de
Hacienda y Credito Publico; SHCP) endorsed this request. SEMARNAP then put
together a strong project preparation team. Budgetary resources have already been
allocated by SEMARNAP and SHCP in the 1996 and 1997 budget for project
implementation activities. At the state level in Oaxaca, the Governor has repeatedly
expressed his strong support, and has appointed a State Coordinating Commission for the
project.
Participation in Project Preparation
2.6   The project has been designed and will be implemented with the participation of
forest communities and ejidos, Oaxacan and national non-governmental organizations, and
other stakeholders. It includes all four categories of activities to foster participation:
(a)   Information Sharing has included the translation and distribution of the Project
Information Document in Spanish, a national workshop to discuss the
Government's sectoral strategy with a broad range of stakeholders, and meetings
with Oaxacan and national non-governmental organizations.
(b)   Consultation has included focus group meetings with Oaxacan forest communities
at three stages - preparation, preappraisal, and appraisal - on project design and the
menu of technical assistance and training. The project will finance regional fora
for continued consultation with potential beneficiaries during implementation.



15
(c)   Participation in implementation will be fostered by delegating responsibility and
control to communities to contract their own technical assistance services and
request short and long term training.
(d)   Ownership will be transferred to communities by developing long range planning
and business development skills, through participatory monitoring and evaluation
of technical assistance support, and by financing community initiated and managed
seminars to exchange knowledge.
SUMMARY PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.7   The project would have the following components:
(a)   Assistance to Communities and lljidos (US$ 10.3 million Total Costs). This
component would be based in Oaxaca and would finance promotional activities,
private technical assistance, short and long term training, and community-to-
community training for : (i) preparing and updating management plans for timber
extraction based on regenerative capacity, making appropriate tradeoffs between
processing and marketing, improving reforestation practices, and undertaking
resource conservation; (ii) preparing conservation plans for forested areas; (iii)
integrated resource management and forestry research; (iv) silvicultural skills, and
control of fire and insects; (v) understanding boundary demarcation issues of
comnmunity and ejido lands so as to enable communities and ejidos to implement
their management plans and productive activities without conflict over boundaries;
(vi) accessing credit, markets, and technologies; (vii) increasing the efficiency of
forestry activities and enterprises; (viii) business and management skills; and (ix)
financial management of the resource base by communities and ejidos.
(b)   Strengthening of the Capacity of Private Service Providers (US$ 1.6 million
Total Costs). This component would be based in Oaxaca and would finance the
training necessary to enable private sector providers to work with communities and
ejidos in sustainable integrated forest management practices, multiple-use forestry,
reforestation technologies, silviculture, innovative environmentally sound
technologies, forest protection, and nursery practices. It would also finance
consultants and equipment needed to review and strengthen the Government's
certification and evaluation program for private sector providers.
(c)   Promotion of Non-Timber Forest Products (NTFP) (US$ 3.2 million Total
Costs). This component would be based in the six priority states with pine-oak
forest, and would finance: (i) diagnostic studies; (ii) grants for the purchase of
tools, materials, equipment, temporary civil works, technical assistance and limited
inputs for the development of NTFP; and (iii) salaries, consultants, equipment,
materials, and publications, for the evaluation and dissemination of results.



16
(d)   Institutional Strengthening Component (US$ 8.5 million Total Costs). This
component would finance consultants, salaries, studies, equipment, training
programs, vehicles, travel related expenditures, and workshops to strengthen
SEMARNAP, SEDAF and state forestry agencies in the other five priority states
with pine-oak forest, to carry out their mandated forestry activities, and to manage
and implement the project. The pilot project in Oaxaca would be carefully
monitored, and based on that experience, projects would be designed by
SEMARNAP and the state environmental agencies to replicate the experience in
the other five priority states of Chihuahua, Durango, Guerrero, Jalisco, and
Michoacan.
DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Assistance to Communities and Ejidos
2.8   The objective of this component is to channel resources to forested communities
and ejidos in Oaxaca with pine-oak forests for technical assistance and training in
improved forest management, conservation and sustainable use of natural resource areas
with high environmental value, and improved management of forest enterprises. Technical
assistance is tailored to the needs of the four categories of forestry communities and
ejidos: (a) 122 communities with no management plans and no commercial extraction; (b)
41 communities that sell standing timber, but do not harvest the timber themselves; (c) 43
communities that harvest and sell cut timber, but have no processing capacity; and (d) 30
communities with harvesting and processing enterprises, including communities that are
grouped into forestry unions. This component has three sub-components:
(a)   Promotional Activities. This subcomponent would finance communications
specialists, non-governmental organizations, consultants, salaries, equipment,
workshops, and promotional materials, including video and radio, to inform
potential participants about the scope of the available assistance, carry out 175
participatory rapid appraisals, promote regional fora for community participation,
and evaluate the needs and interests of participants in order to better design
training programs and future activities. Given the low level of involvement of
women in the forestry sector, special effort will be made to promote those aspects
of the project in which women could become interested, such as scholarships and
non-timber forest products.
(b)   Technical Assistance. This sub-component would finance part of the costs of the
technical assistance provided by private providers under contracts with
participating communities and ejidos. Topics would be deterrnined by the
communities and ejidos, based on eligibility criteria, and could include:
management plans for timber extraction based on regenerative capacity;
conservation plans for forested areas; integrated resource management and forestry
research; and forest enterprise efficiency. Under no circumstances would this sub-
component finance prefeasibility studies for investment in harvesting or processing



17
equipment, or any roads-related civil works or engineering studies. Private
providers will also be excluded from providing technical assistance on any
investment decisions in equipment or infrastructure. The project would cover the
technical assistance costs (net of taxes) as follows: (a) 100 percent for
communities without management plans; (b) 80 percent for communities selling
standing timber; (c) 65 percent for communities harvesting timber; and (d) 50
percent for communities with processing enterprises.
(c)   Training. This sub-component would finance the design and implementation of
training courses by universities, academic institutions, and individual trainers, for
community and ejido members on a demand-driven basis. During the first year of
their participation, a course on environmental impact and conservation would be
required for all communities and ejidos requesting technical assistance. Courses
would initially be developed on: environmental impact assessments; silvicultural
skills; analysis of contents of management plans; administrative and accounting
skills; community organization for forestry enterprises; control of fire and insects;
technical harvesting and processing skills; investment decision-making for
harvesting and processing; legal and regulatory norms; conservation options;
understanding boundary demarcation issues of community and ejido lands; and
accessing credit, markets, and technologies. As demand for training becomes
known (through attendance, and discussions at regional fora), the training
programs and offerings would be modified. A limited number of community
members would be eligible for two-year scholarships for forestry training in the
state of Oaxaca, and for four-year undergraduate scholarships for forestry
management elsewhere in Mexico. In addition, the project would include a budget
at federal level for demand-driven proposals from forest ejidos and communities to
hold regional or national community-to-community seminars to exchange
information among communities on forestry development and conservation
activities.
Strengthening the Capacity of Private Service Providers
2.9   The objective of this component is to broaden the range, increase the quality, and
improve the availability of technical services offered by private service providers to forest
producers in Oaxaca. This component would have the following sub-components:
(a)   Roster of Private Providers. This sub-component would finance consultants,
salaries, equipment, travel-related expenses, and materials to invite Oaxacan, other
Mexican, and international private providers to participate in the project and to
design and hold orientation and immersion programs for the private providers that
pre-qualify. The two week orientation and immersion programs would include
overview courses, plus field work. Since attendance at the orientation and
immersion programs is mandatory, the income foregone by the private providers
while attending the two week courses would serve as their contribution.



18
Satisfactory completion of the curriculum, field work, and final exam would be
requirements for joining the roster.
(b)   Continuing Education Program. This sub-component would finance consultants,
equipment, consultant travel-related expenses, and materials to design and hold
comprehensive short courses at post-graduate level on a variety of subjects,
including: forest management; forest ecology and silviculture; maintenance of
native forest structure and biodiversity, watershed protection, wildlife
management, integrated resource management; NTFP; environmental assessments;
harvesting, transport and primary manufacturing; social aspects of forestry
development; marketing, legal and regulatory aspects; and financial and economic
aspects. To the extent possible, training currently being given at existing academic
institutions would be adapted for use in the continuing education program. Private
providers are required to attend one course each year in order to maintain their
status on the roster, therefore the income foregone by the private providers to
attend the courses would serve as their contribution.
Promotion of Non-Timber Forest Products
2.10  The objective of this pilot intervention would be to identify, promote, and
demonstrate market opportunities for potentially tradable NTFPs in community and ejido
forests where NTFPs are integrated into the management plans. To achieve these
objectives, the component would address the main factors constraining NTFP
development, by providing information on markets and sustainable technologies, technical
assistance, and access to funds to implement the technical packages. Communities and
ejidos in Oaxaca, Chihuahua, Durango, Guerrero, Michoacan, and Jalisco, would be
eligible for grants if they could demonstrate that they have forest ecosystems defined as a
minimum of ten percent crown cover of trees, generally associated with wild flora, fauna
and natural soil conditions, and not subject to agricultural practices. Rare or endangered
species listed in either the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of
Fauna and Flora or under Mexican regulations as listed in Norma Official Mexicana 059
would be excluded.
2.11  The component would have three sub-components:
(a)   Diagnostic Studies. This sub-component would finance consultants, equipment,
and publications to undertake diagnostic studies in the six priority states. The
main aim of the studies would be to compile a comprehensive data base on the
extent, management, production, use and trade of NTFPs in participating states, so
as to identify the unrealized potential for NTFPs, and to identify those which may
be overexploited and in need of conservation.
(b)   Grant Fund. This sub-component would provide small grants to communities and
ejidos for the purchase of tools, materials, field and packaging equipment,
temporary civil works, technical assistance, and limited inputs, in order to field test



19
promising proposals for the development and improved management of potentially
tradable, environmentally sustainable, NTFPs. Additional criteria would include
maximum project size of US$ 20,000 of which 25 percent would be financed by
the community, one project per product per state per year, with a maximum of
three projects per product per state over the life of the project. The process would
be demand driven, competitive and transparent whereby communities and ejidos in
participating states would be invited to compete for grants.
(c)   Monitoring and Dissernination of Results. This sub-component would finance
salaries, consultants, equipment, materials, and publications in each of the six state
delegations to promote, monitor, evaluate, and disseminate results and
experiences, so that communities in other areas could be made aware of the
income generating potential of NTFPs.
Institutional Strengthening
2.12  The objective of this component is to strengthen the federal and state institutions
working in forestry conservation and development. Specifically, this component would
strengthen the capacity of: (a) federal institutions to carry out normative and enforcement
activities that have a direct impact on community forestry; (b) state government
institutions in the six priority states with pine-oak forests in preparation for the eventual
decentralization of resources and responsibilities; (c) Project Management and Project
Implementation Units in SEMARNAP in Mexico City and SEMARNAP Oaxaca to
implement the project; and (d) federal and state institutions to monitor the pilot activities
in Oaxaca, and prepare similar projects in the other five priority states with pine-oak
forests. This component would have the following sub-components:
(a)   Review of Forestry Management and Conservation Plans. This sub-component
would finance consultants, salaries, field and computer equipment, vehicles, and
operating expenditures to strengthen the review, approval, and audit of forestry
management and conservation plans by the Sub-Delegation of Natural Resources,
the Sub-Delegation of Environment, the Judicial Unit, and the PFPA Delegation,
all within SEMARNAP in Oaxaca.
(b)   SEMARNAP Delegations and State Secretariats. This sub-component would
finance equipment, staff, and operating expenses to strengthen the SEMARNAP
delegations and the State Secretariats in the five other priority states with pine-oak
forests. This would assist SEMARNAP in the process of deconcentration of
resources and responsibilities from the federal level to the SEMARNAP state
delegations, followed by the decentralization of resources and responsibilities from
the SEMARNAP state delegations to the State Secretariats.
(c)   Sistema Nacional de Informacion Forestal (SNIF). This sub-component would
finance consultants to design an Internet based system that would enable private
producers, academics, non-governmental organizations, government agencies, and



20
others, to access Govermnent information and to create their own databases within
the system. As part of the SNIF, the Registro Nacional Forestal would be
computerized. The Registro is a public register of all the activities that are
regulated by the Government. At present, the Registro includes a roster of
certified private providers of technical forestry services, the approved forestry
management plans, cutting permits, forestry enterprise permits, approved changes
in land use, and forestry inventories. The sub-component would also finance
computer hardware and software, terminals at all the state delegations, system
administration staff, and maintenance.
(d)   Skills Upgrading. This sub-component would finance consultants, course
materials, facilities, instructors' fees, and travel-related expenses, for skills
upgrading through training and scholarships for staff at the federal level and at the
state level in the six priority states with pine-oak forests. Selected staff would
attend the technical forestry training courses designed for the private providers.
Some training programs would be designed to upgrade administrative and
technology skills. Scholarships for two-year courses and short study tours would
be available on a limited basis.
(e)   Project Management and Implementation Units. This sub-component would
finance two units: a Project Management Unit at SEMARNAP in Mexico City
reporting to the Director General of DGF, and including: sufficient qualified staff,
such as a coordinator, procurement specialist, technical expert, and liaison with
Oaxaca; equipment; travel-related expenses; and operating expenses; and a Project
Implementation Unit at SEMARNAP in Oaxaca reporting to the SEMARNAP
Delegate in Oaxaca, including: sufficient qualified staff such as a coordinator,
administrator, project promoter, four regional promoters, training officer,
procurement advisor to communities, biodiversity advisor; equipment; travel-
related expenses; and operating expenses. In order to permit the effective
monitoring of the environment within which the project operates, this component
would finance two studies, the first would consist of periodic surveys of
deforestation in Oaxaca, aided by aerial photography; and the second would
consist of periodic surveys of forestry-related community income in Oaxaca.
(f)   Project Preparation in Five Priority States. This sub-component would finance
consultants, travel-related expenses, and workshops to prepare projects in the five
other priority states with pine-oak forests: Chihuahua, Durango, Michoacan,
Jalisco, and Guerrero. This project is piloting an approach to working with
communities and ejidos to improve their management of forestry resources.
SEMARNAP would evaluate the experience in Oaxaca, and extend the approach
to other states, possibly with the support of Bank financed projects.



21
JUSTIFICATION
Rationale for Project Design
2.13  The project has been designed to empower the communities and ejidos in their
decision making as to the nature, extent, and timing of the training and technical assistance
on sustainable forestry management they would receive. Private providers of technical
assistance will be hired by the communities through community procurement procedures.
To improve the skills of these private providers, training is being provided through the
project. To enable communities to make full use of their forestry resources, the project
would promote NTFPs as an alternative to traditional timber products. Existing
institutions that are involved in the regulation or enforcement of the forestry sector are
being strengthened. Activities that are clearly related to the existence of a Bank financed
project are being handled by Project Management and Project Implementation Units at the
federal and state level. A detailed monitoring and evaluation system is included, given the
pilot nature of the activities in Oaxaca, and the Government's intention of replicating the
successes of the pilot in the five other priority states with pine-oak forest.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.14  The proposed project would provide strong support to the Government's strategy
for the forestry sector. It would strengthen environmental management, address issues of
income generation in some of the poorest indigenous communities in the south of Mexico,
and would support the process of administrative decentralization, all priorities in the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Mexico (Report No. 16056-ME; October 15,
1996), and would complement ongoing environmental and poverty-focused operations in
Mexico. As a pilot project, it would provide a unique opportunity to learn valuable
lessons on how to work with communities to undertake natural resource management
activities.
Program Objective Categories
2.15  The proportion of the poor among project beneficiaries is expected to be
significantly larger than their proportion in the overall population, therefore this project
fits the criteria for inclusion in the Program of Targeted Interventions. The project
belongs primarily to the Environmentally Sustainable Development and Poverty
Reduction and Human Resource Development program objective categories. Given its
focus on communities and ejidos, and on private service providers, the project also
belongs to the Private Sector Development program objective category.



22
3. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
3.1   To the extent possible, project activities will be implemented by existing line
agencies that already have the mandate to carry out the activities. This will reduce
duplication and strengthen the institutions. At the same time, activities that are clearly
related to a Bank financed project, such as procurement and disbursement, have been
separated and placed into Project Management and Project Implementation Units. The
Government has appointed oversight committees at the state and federal level to monitor
and guide the process of project implementation.
Line Agencies
3.2   Direccion General Forestal. DGF will be responsible for most of the project
activities that take place at the federal level. The Project Management Unit in Mexico
City will report directly to the Director General Forestal.
3.3   Direccion General Forestal's Direccion de Aprovechamiento Forestal. DAF
would be responsible for implementing the activities within the project that fall within its
mandate: (a) Assistance to Communities and Ejidos - managing the community to
community seminars; (b) Strengthening the Capacity of Private Service Providers -
preparing and managing a roster of private providers for the project, designing the
orientation and immersion courses and the continuing education program for the private
providers in consultation with the Sub-Delegation of Planning in SEMARNAP Oaxaca;
(c) Promotion of NTFPs - contracting and supervising the diagnostic studies on NTFPs in
the six priority states with pine-oak forests, and doing evaluations of completed projects
and disseminating the results in cooperation with the SEMARNAP delegations; (d)
Institutional Strengthening - helping to strengthen the management plan review and
enforcement functions at the delegation level, designing and implementing the training
programs for Government staff in consultation with the Sub-Delegation of Planning in
SEMARNAP Oaxaca, and managing the Registro Nacional Forestal.
3.4   Consejo Tecnico Consultivo Nacional Forestal. CONAF would continue the
activities that are currently within its mandate: (d) Institutional Strengthening - design and
implementation of the SNIF in consultation with the DAF on the Registro Nacional
Forestal, and as the main counterpart designated by the Sub-Secretary of Natural
Resources for the preparation of this project, CONAF would evaluate the implementation



23
of the pilot components in Oaxaca and would collaborate with the SEMARNAP
Delegations and the state forestry agencies in order to design similar projects in the five
other priority states with pine-oak forests, and would strengthen the federal and state
agencies in the five other priority states with pine-oak forests as part of the
decentralization and project preparation effort.
3.5   SEMARNAP Oaxaca. The Delegation in Oaxaca would be responsible for all
project activities in Oaxaca. The Project Implementation Unit would report directly to the
SEMARNAP Delegate in Oaxaca, and the Delegate would chair the grant and scholarship
selection panels in Oaxaca. In addition, the Delegation would have direct responsibility
for: (d) Institutional Strengthening - implementation of the review and enforcement of
forestry management plans through the Sub-Delegation of Natural Resources, the Sub-
Delegation of Environment, the Judicial Unit, and the PFPA Delegation.
3.6   SEMARNAP Oaxaca's Sub-Delegation of Planning. This Sub-Delegation is
responsible for all training activities in Oaxaca. It would undertake the following: (a)
Assistance to Communities and Ejidos - design and implementation of training programs
for communities and ejidos; (b) Strengthening the Capacity of Private Service Providers -
design in consultation with DAF, and implementation of the orientation and immersion
courses and continuing education program for the private providers; (d) Institutional
Strengthening - designing and implementing, in consultation with DAF, the training
programs for forestry professionals in the Government.
3.7   SEMARNAP Delegations. In the five other priority states with pine-oak forest,
the SEMARNAP Delegation would be responsible for: (c) Promotion of NTFP -
monitoring grant fund activities, assisting the communities as needed, and disseminating
the results; (d) Institutional Strengthening - working with CONAF on the design of similar
project based on the experience with this project.
3.8   NAFIN. The Government has designated NAFIN as the financial agent for
community procurement. NAFIN will work through corresponding banks with branches
in Oaxaca, including Banco Bilbao Vizcaya and Banco Union.
Staff Agencies
3.9   Project Management Unit in SEMARNAP Mexico City. The Project
Management Unit at SEMARNAP in Mexico City will report directly to the Director
General Forestal, and will be responsible for guiding project implementation through
annual planning, budgeting, and reporting. It will be the liaison between the different
agencies involved in the project, including SEMARNAP Oaxaca, CONAF, NAFIN,
SHCP, and the World Bank. The Project Management Unit will perform secretariat
functions for the grant and scholarship selection panels at federal level. It will assist with,
and when necessary perform, project accounting, procurement, and disbursement
functions. It will have primary responsibility for project supervision, monitoring of project



24
activities, monitoring of the status of deforestation and forestry-based income in Oaxaca,
and evaluation of project implementation.
3.10 Project Implementation Unit in SEMARNAP Oaxaca. The Project
Implementation Unit in SEMARNAP Oaxaca will report directly to the SEMARNAP
delegate in Oaxaca. This Unit would serve as the primary point of contact in Oaxaca for
the communities, private providers, and agencies involved in the project. It would be
involved in monitoring project activities in Oaxaca, and would also have responsibility for:
(a) Assistance to Communities and Ejidos - promotional activities, regional fora,
coordination and implementation of community procurement for technical assistance; (c)
Promotion of NTFP - monitoring of grant activities.
Oversight Committees and Selection Panels
3.11  Advisory Committee. The Sub-Secretary of Natural Resources has appointed an
Advisory Committee which consists of six Directors General from within SEMARNAP -
Planning, International Coordination, Forestry, CONAF, Soil Conservation, and
Programming Budgeting and Evaluation. The Sub-Secretary of Natural Resources would
chair. The Advisory Committee would ensure coordination with other programs and
projects within SEMARNAP, evaluate progress against stated project objectives and
monitoring indicators, and recommend specific corrective actions as necessary.
3.12 State Coordinating Commission. The Governor of Oaxaca has appointed a
State Coordinating Commission, composed of the Secretary of SEDAF, the Technical
Advisor in the General Coordination of the State Committee for Development Planning in
Oaxaca (Coordinacion General del Comite Estatal de Planeacion para el Desarrollo;
COPLADE), and the SEMARNAP Delegate in Oaxaca. The functions of this
Commission are to: facilitate coordination with other programs and projects at the state
level; provide information and inputs on project design and implementation; take part in
periodic evaluations of the project; and serve as the mechanism by which investments and
activities complementary to the project at the state level are incorporated in state
programs and budgets. If the Government decentralizes resources, staff and activities to
the state, this Commission could serve as the mechanism within the project to plan and
implement its decentralization.
3.13  Selection Panels. Selection panels would be established for the scholarship and
grants components. For scholarships to community members in Oaxaca, the panels would
consist of the SEMARNAP Delegate, SEMARNAP Sub-Delegate of Natural Resources,
the SEMARNAP Sub-Delegate of Planning, President of the Escuela Tecnica Forestal de
Santa Maria Atzompa, and the SEDAF Secretary. For grants for NTFP, the state panels
would consist of the SEMARNAP Delegate, the State Forestry Secretary, and the
COPLADE representative, while the federal panel would consist of the Sub-Secretary of
Natural Resources, the Director General of Forestry, and the President of CONABIO.
For staff scholarships and study tours, the Advisory Committee would serve as the
selection panel.



25
Figure 3. Implementation Arrangements by Component and Activity
Component and Activity                      Agency Responsible for Component and Activity
Assistance to Communities and Ejidos
Promoting the Project                       Project Implementation Unit in SEMARNAP Oaxaca
Holding Regional Fora                       Project Implementation Unit in SEMARNAP Oaxaca
Managing Technical Assistance to Communities    Project Implementation Unit in SEMARNAP Oaxaca
and Ejidos
Handling Payments in Community Procurement    NAFIN
Designing and Implementing Training Program  SEMARNAP Oaxaca's Sub-Delegation of Planning
Approving Scholarships for Community Members   Panel Consisting of SEMARNAP Delegate in Oaxaca,
in Oaxaca                                   SEMARNAP Sub-Delegate of Natural Resources,
SEMARNAP Sub-Delegate of Planning, President of the
Escuela Tecnica Forestal de Santa Maria Atzompa,
SEDAF Secretary
Community-to-Community Seminars             DAF
Strengthening the Capacity of Private Providers
Managing Roster                             DAF
Designing Orientation and Immersion Courses and  DAF in consultation with SEMARNAP Oaxaca's Sub-
Continuing Education Program                Delegation of Planning
Implementing Orientation and Immersion Courses   SEMARNAP Oaxaca's Sub-Delegation of Planning
and Continuing Education Program
Promotion of Non-Timber Forest Products
Contracting and Supervising Diagnostic Studies  DAF
Promoting NTFP, Assisting Communities,      Project Implementation Unit in SEMARNAP Oaxaca, and
Reviewing Applications for Eligibility, and  SEMARNAP Delegations in Five Other Priority States
Monitoring Grants                           with Pine-Oak Forests
Screening Grant Applications at State Level  Panel Consisting of SEMARNAP Delegate, State Forestry
Secretary, and COPLADE Representative
Approving Grants at Federal Level           Panel Consisting of Sub-Secretary of Natural Resources,
Director General of Forestry, and President of CONABIO
Evaluating Completed Projects               DAF
Disseminating Results                       DAF and SEMARNAP Delegations
Institutional Strengthening
Implementing the Management Plan Review and    SEMARNAP Oaxaca's Sub Delegation of Natural
Enforcement Functions                       Resources, Sub Delegation of Environment, Judicial Unit,
and PFPA Delegation, with help from DAF
Strengthening SEMARNAP Delegations and State   CONAF
Forestry Agencies in Five Priority States
Designing and Implementing SNIF             CONAF in consultation with DAF on the Registro
Nacional Forestal
Managing the Registro Nacional Forestal     DAF
Designing and Implementation of Training    DAF and SEMARNAP Oaxaca's Sub-Delegation of
Programs for Government Staff               Planning
Approving Staff Scholarships and Study Tours  Advisory Comnnittee Consisting of six Directors General
from SEMARNAP
Project Preparation in Five Priority States  CONAF in collaboration with SEMARNAP Delegations
and State Forestry Agencies



26
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Project Costs
3.14  Total project costs, including contingencies and taxes are estimated at about US$
23.6 million equivalent.
Table 1. Estimated Project Costs
(US$ millions)
Component                                         Local   Foreign   Total
Assistance to Ejidos and Communities                7.8        0.3    8.1
Strengthening the Capacity of Private Providers     1.0        0.3     1.3
Promotion of Non-Timber Forest Products             2.8        0.1     2.9
Institutional Strengthening                         5.6        1.5    7.1
Total Baseline Costs                               17.2        2.2   19.4
Physical Contingencies                             1.9        0.3    2.2
Price Contingencies                                1.8        0.2    2.0
I Total Project Costs                               20.9        2.7   23.6
3.15  Baseline costs are estimated at US$ 19.4 million and physical contingencies at US$
2.2 million or 11 percent of total baseline project costs. Price contingencies between
negotiations and project completion are estimated at US$ 2.0 million equivalent, or about
9 percent of project baseline costs plus physical contingencies. Annual price increases
were applied to foreign costs in all categories in US Dollar terms at a rate of 2.6 percent.
Annual price increases for local costs were calculated using World Bank estimates.
Foreign and local price contingencies are expressed in US Dollar equivalents, assuming
purchasing power parity during the six year disbursement period.
Project Financing
3.16  The proposed Bank loan of US$ 15.0 million would finance about 75 percent of
total costs excluding taxes, which is justified given the continuing macroeconomic
situation in Mexico, the nature of the project, and the three-year cost sharing ratio for
Bank loans in Mexico. The Bank loan will be a US Dollar single currency variable term
loan. Of the balance, US$ 6.8 million would be financed by the Government, and US$ 1.8
million would be financed by the communities. Foreign exchange accounts for 12 percent
of the total costs of the project. The Bank will cover an amount equivalent to the total
amount of foreign exchange costs (US$ 2.7 million) plus 71 percent of local costs
excluding taxes (US$ 12.3 million), bringing Bank participation in aggregate up to about
64 percent of total project costs.



27
3.17 Nacional Financiera S. N. C. (NAFIN) would be the Borrower, and would sign an
agreement for the transfer of the loan proceeds to SEMARNAP as the Executing Agency,
as a condition of Loan Effectiveness.
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
Procurement
3.18  All project components financed under the proposed Bank loan would be procured
in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD and IDA Credits (January
1995, revised January and August 1996). Standard bidding documents agreed to by the
Bank and the Government will be used for the procurement of goods under National
Competitive Bidding. The Bank would finance computer and office equipment, field
equipment, promotional equipment, publications, training, consulting services, and
community grants. No vehicles would be financed by the Bank. No incremental recurrent
costs would be financed by the Bank. Table 2 summarizes the procurement arrangements.
Table 2. Procurement Arrangements
(US$ thousands)
Procurement Method
International National               Non
Competitive  Competitive             Bank
Category              Bidding       Bidding      Other a/ Financing  Total
1. Goods              0.6           0.8          0.2                  1.6
(0.6)        (0.4)         (0.1)                (1.1)
2. Technical Assistance
(a) Consultants and                              11.4                 11.4
Studies
(8.6)                (8.6)
(b) Training b/                                  4.5                  4.5
(3.8)                (3.8)
3. Grants c/                                     2.0                  2.0
(1.5)                (1.5)
4. Vehicles                                                 0.2        0.2
5. Incremental                                             3.9        3.9
Recurrent Costs
Total                 0.6           0.8          18.1       4.1       23.6
(0.6)        (0.4)         14.0)    _(15.0)
a/ Includes consultant services, international and national shopping, and direct contracting for training
b/ Includes study tours, workshops, courses, and scholarships
c/ Given to communities and ejidos for the development of NTFP
3.19  Goods. Goods to be procured under the project consist of computer hardware
and software, office equipment, furniture and promotional material, which in total amounts



28
to US$ 1.6 million. To the extent possible, goods will be grouped in packages valued at
US$ 350,000 or more and procured through Intemational Competitive Bidding. Packages
of similar equipment valued under US$ 350,000, but higher than US$ 50,000 up to an
aggregate amount of US$ 800,000 would be procured through National Competitive
Bidding. Packages of similar nature valued under US$ 50,000 up to an aggregate of US$
200,000 would be procured through National or Intemational Shopping procedures, based
on price quotations from at least three bidders. Vehicles will not be financed by the Bank.
The contracts for Intemational Competitive Bidding, and the first five contracts for
National Competitive Bidding regardless of value, would be subject to prior review by the
Bank.
3.20  Consultants. The selection and appointment of consultants for training, studies,
technical assistance and promotional activities will follow the Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants (August 1981). Terms of reference, short lists, letters of invitation and draft
contracts for consultancies with firms valued above US$ 100,000, and for consultancies
with individuals valued above US$ 50,000, would be subject to prior review by the Bank.
Consultant terms of reference would be subject to prior review regardless of the value of
the contract. Exemptions from prior review do not apply to consultant contracts below
the thresholds in cases of: single source selection of firms; assignments of a critical nature;
and amendments to contracts raising the original contract value above the thresholds. All
contracts not subject to prior review would be subject to ex-post review by the Bank
during supervision on a selective basis. The proposed review arrangements are expected
to result in a prior review coverage level of about 50 percent of Bank-financed contracts.
3.21  The communities would hire private providers for technical assistance. In order to
facilitate this community procurement, the roster of private providers, the standardized
terms of reference, the community and technical assistance eligibility criteria, and the
standard contract would be subject to prior review by the Bank. The signed contracts
would be subject to ex-post review by the Bank during supervision on a selective basis.
All contracts that did not conform to the standard terms of reference would be subject to
prior review by the Bank.
3.22 Grants. Grants for the development of NTFP would be given to communities and
ejidos. Grants for projects with a value of not higher than US$ 20,000 each would be
granted under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The Bank would carry out a
prior review of the selection criteria and the selection panels, and ex-post review of the
grant awards. The first ten contracts under community procurement regardless of value,
would be subject to prior review by the Bank.



29
Table 3. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(US$ Thousands)
Category          Procurement       Contracts Subject to      Threshold
Method             Prior Review
Goods              International                 All                 >350
Competitive Bidding
National Competitive   First Five Contracts     >50 - 350
Bidding               Regardless of Value
National Shopping            None                 <50
Consulting Services  Local and Foreign           All                > 100
by Firms           Consulting Firms
Terms of Reference        < 100
Only
Consulting Services  Local and Foreign           All                 > 50
by Individuals     Individual Consultants
Terms of Reference        < 50
Only
Consulting Services  Community             Roster of Private         < 20
by Private Providers  Procurement         Providers, Standard
Terms of Reference,
Eligibility Criteria, and
Standard Contract, First
Ten Contracts
I  Regardless of Value
Grants and         Direct Contracting    Selection Criteria and      < 20
Scholarships                                    Panel         __
Disbursement
3.23  The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001, and the Loan
closing date is June 30, 2002. The borrower will establish a Special Account in Banco de
Mexico, with an initial deposit of US$ 1.0 million, equal to about four months' estimated
average disbursements, under established procedures between the Bank and the
Government of Mexico. Disbursements from the Loan account will be made on 70
percent of the total value excluding taxes of expenditures for goods, and 100 percent of
the total value excluding taxes of expenditures disbursed by SEMARNAP for consultants,
studies, training, and grants. Disbursements against consultant contracts below US$
100,000 for firms and US$ 50,000 for individual consultants, as well as for expenditures
for grants, training (not covered by a consultant contract) and for goods under contracts
below US$ 350,000, will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures.



30
Disbursements against contracts above the prior review limits will be made against full
documentation submitted to the Bank. This project shall permit retroactive financing up
to 10 percent of the total Bank loan, effective March 1, 1996.
Table 4. Estimated Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
11BRD BY     FY98    FY99    FY00    FY01    FY02
Annual       3.0 a/    3.0     3.1      3.0      2.9
Cumulative     3 .0     6.0      9.1     12.1    15.0
a/ Includes Deposit in Special Account
Accounts and Auditing
3.24 SEMARNAP and NAFIN will maintain all project accounts. All accounts will
adequately reflect expenditures made in respect of the project, in accordance with sound
accounting practices acceptable to the Bank. A certified copy of the project audit,
prepared by independent and qualified auditors, and in accordance with the Guidelines for
Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982)
will be submitted to the Bank by June 30 of each year, which is not more than six months
after the completion of the fiscal year on December 31. The audit report will include a
separate opinion by the auditor on procurement, the use of the Special Account, as well as
on disbursements against certified Statements of Expenditure. Statements of Expenditure
and other audit-related material will be made available to Bank supervision missions as
requested. The Government will have the project accounts audited using procedures
acceptable to the Bank, in line with the Audit Agreement of November, 1991, between the
Bank and the General Secretariat of the Comptroller of the Federation.
MONITORING, EVALUATION, AND SUPERVISION
3.25  Monitoring and Evaluation. Six indicators have been selected against which
successful implementation would be measured: (a) annual budgetary allocation; (b)
increased forest area under improved management; (c) hectares under conservation by
communities; (d) number of private providers in the project roster; (e) number of non-
timber forest products successfully implemented; and (f) percentage of management plans
reviewed within the legally mandated 30 day limit.
3.26 The Project Management Unit in SEMARNAP in Mexico City would have primary
responsibility for project supervision, monitoring and evaluation. It would be responsible
for guiding project implementation through annual planning, budgeting, and reporting.
Each agency, and the communities receiving technical assistance, training, or grants,
would have the responsibility of monitoring the activities within their mandate, and
reporting to the Project Management Unit in SEMARNAP in Mexico City on a quarterly



31
basis. The Project Management Unit in SEMARNAP in Mexico City would consolidate
and distribute internal quarterly reports measuring progress against indicators. On an
annual basis, the Unit would prepare a detailed Project Implementation Report on: the
general status of the project; project administration, organization and management;
achievements, problems, and recommended actions; tables of input, output, outcome, and
impact indicators; status of disbursements; and status of legal covenants. Based on this
Project Implementation Report, the Project Management Unit in SEMARNAP in Mexico
City would prepare an Annual Operating Plan and Implementation Schedule, which would
be discussed and agreed with the Bank and which would include: objectives, activities,
costs, indicators, implementation schedule and procurement plan.
3.27  Supervision. The project is expected to require extensive and close supervision
by the Bank, especially within the first two years. The supervision calendar would include
a minimum of three missions a year for the first two years, one of which one would be an
annual review. A project launch workshop would be held after negotiations. It is
estimated that supervision would require about 20 staff weeks per year, plus about eight
staff weeks of consultant time per year in the first two years. In addition to project
management, staff and consultant skills would include forestry, biodiversity, and
sociology. Special emphasis would be given to supervising the implementation of pilot
activities in Oaxaca. A mid-term review would be held in mid-1999 to determine: changes
necessary in the pilot activities in Oaxaca, including cost recovery for private provider
training programs; transfer of responsibilities as a result of the deconcentration and
decentralization programs; and expansion of the NTFP grants program to other states.



32
4. PROJECT ANALYSIS
SOCIAL ANALYSIS
4.1   Project preparation has included a lengthy process of social assessment and
participation plan preparation, including a special emphasis on indigenous development,
given that more than 90 percent of the targeted beneficiaries belong to indigenous
ethnicities. The social assessment included: (a) country-level sector analysis, with field
data collection and focus-group interviews; (b) a gender study, with field survey data and
secondary literature review; (c) an indigenous peoples' assessment as a background study
within the country-level sector analysis, plus follow-up focus-group interviews in the state
of Oaxaca; (d) recommendations from community-to-community training workshops,
carried out as an IDF indigenous training initiative; and (e) social assessment of the four
categories of forestry communities and ejidos, drawing on community, government, and
non-governmental organization interviews and workshops.
4.2   This analysis identified a clear opportunity to involve indigenous forest
communities and ejidos in improved forest management and forest enterprises. As a result
of the social analysis, the technical assistance and training support is tailored to different
levels of community organization, includes the possibility of using community forestry
technicians as private providers, allows for exchange of experiences between more
sophisticated and less sophisticated forest communities, and incorporates space for
cultural values and customary tenure arrangements. The project will include a
promotional campaign channeled in part through regional gatherings of communities,
devolving responsibility for these gatherings to community leaders over time. In addition,
training will be tailored to specific community needs, and courses will be held locally as
much as possible to encourage busy household heads to attend. The success of project
activities will be measured through participatory monitoring and evaluation as well as by
external evaluation of development objectives and performance indicators.
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
4.3   The project has been given a Category B rating. It is expected to have a positive
impact on the sustainable management of forestry resources at the community and ejido
level by: (a) providing technical assistance to local people in the conservation and
management of their forestry resources; and (b) ensuring the compatibility of forest
management with the supply of important non-timber forest products and environmental
benefits; and (c) discouraging the conversion of forests to croplands or pastures as a result
of promoting better forest management practices. Because of the nature and small size of



33
the physical investments financed under the grants component of the proejct, no
resettlement is expected or even plausible.
4.4   The project could have a potentially negative environmental impact as a result of:
(a) the decentralization of government programs for conservation and management to
state and local levels, involving weak institutions; (b) unsustainable management practices
for forests and wildiands being managed for varied uses, including supply of non-timber
forest products, for which management experience is still relatively new; and (c) the
intensification of pine-oak forest management resulting in ecological degradation of these
natural habitats. The project contains multiple environmental safeguards, intended to
ensure that project-promoted forest management activities would not cause significant
damage to biodiversity, soils, or water quality. As detailed in SEMARNAP's
Environmental Analysis (Conservacion y Manejo Sustentable de Recursos Forestales en
Mexico: Analisis Ambiental; October 1996), these safeguards include the promotion of
forest conservation plans, environmental training and technical assistance to communities
and private service providers, a biodiversity advisor, environmental institutional
strengthening, forestry research, and environmental project monitoring.
ECONOMIC AND FISCAL ANALYSIS
4.5   There is strong economic justification for this project, as discussed throughout this
report: the project concept and design is coherently set in the economic and sector work
that proceeded it, and fits within the country assistance strategy; the project targets
indigenous communities in one of the poorest states in Mexico; the project design is
optimal given the constraints in the sector; technical, environmental, and institutional risks
have been carefully evaluated, and actions have been included in the project to reduce
these risks; and indicators have been devised to monitor project performance.
4.6   The Government of Mexico has justified the fiscal outlays associated with this
project for social and environrnental reasons, given that the indigenous communities in
Oaxaca are among the poorest in Mexico, and that their successful management of their
forestry resources could increase the range of income-generating options available to these
communities. At the same time, better management could result in higher value added
production, more employment in the rural sector, less imports of timber products, and
perhaps even exports of non-timber products, all of which would generate a positive
revenue flow through taxation. Communities and ejidos in Oaxaca are known to channel
surplus resources into community goods such as water supply, drainage, primary
education, scholarships, and health services. Any increase in revenues at the community
level, and substitution for publicly provided goods, would reduce the fiscal burden on the
Government.
PROJECT BENEFITS
4.7   The project would empower communities and ejidos in Oaxaca to improve their
management of forestry resources, and to increase the range of income generating options



34
available to them. It would do so by: closing the knowledge gap through training;
improving the quality and increasing the range of advisory services available to
communities through private providers of technical assistance; developing options for
NTFPs; and improving the services provided to the communities by Government
institutions. The project would operationalize innovative thinking in Mexico and
elsewhere on the best ways to assist indigenous owners of communal property in
sustainable management of their resource base. If successful, the project would provide a
model that could be replicated in other indigenous communities that are willing to
undertake sustainable natural resource management activities.
4.8   Project benefits are concentrated on poor and indigenous families in Oaxaca.
Ninety percent of the target population is indigenous and forested areas covered by the
project are all within municipalities defined as poor and marginal. Oaxacan communities
make a concerted effort to distribute employment and training opportunities widely, and to
channel surplus resources into community goods. In addition, community forest
development plans in the more organized communities reflect a cultural value on
investments of forest income in activities that generate diversity of production and
therefore increase employment. The experience in some communities suggests that as
sustainable management of the resource increases, communities can increase harvesting,
invest in improved and more diversified processing, and over the medium-term begin to
invest in other employment-generating, timber or non-timber cash crop activities.
PROJECT RISKS
4.9   Following on the heels of the unsuccessful Mexico Forestry Development Project,
this project could receive unusually high scrutiny and residual criticism. External factors
could significantly reduce the prospects for the forestry sector in Mexico: the
implementation of the current PROCAMPO program favors the short term conversion of
forestry lands to agriculture; trade with North America has increased the availability of
lower cost, higher quality, forestry products in the main markets in Mexico; population
growth may increase pressure to convert forested areas to agriculture; and credit for
forestry activities is not always available on a timely basis. Project objectives are limited
and appropriate, and would enable communities to improve the long term productivity of
their resource base.
4.10  The project poses other significant risks. The most important of these is that the
major project components are demand driven, and although consultations with
communities and private providers have indicated a high level of demand, there is
substantial risk of failure as a result of lack of demand. Promotional activities have been
designed into the project to increase demand for technical assistance and training on the
part of the communities, and to increase awareness and interest on the part of the private
providers. Even if there is high demand, it may not be phased according to the
assumptions made in the project, leading to slower implementation than is currently
expected. Careful management by federal and state agencies is necessary to make



35
adjustments during implementation. The possibility of revising the project at midterm also
allows flexibility in terms of responding to actual demand.
4.11  Also potentially hampering implementation is the weakness of the project agencies
at federal and state level. The project is front-loading technical assistance and equipment
provided to these agencies in order to mitigate this risk, but this strategy will only be
effective if the necessary staff to implement and manage the project are hired on a timely
basis, and staff remain in place over the medium term. As with other projects in Mexico,
adequate counterpart funding may not be available. While the project has little leverage
over the fiscal management systems of the Government, the fact that a budgetary
allocation has been made for counterpart funding during preparation for retroactive
financing and for the first year of project implementation indicates the priority the
Government has placed on this project.
4.12  Project activities pose certain risks. Activities undertaken by communities and
ejidos could pose environmental risk; mitigating measures have been included in the
project, and would have to be carefully monitored and adjusted as needed. Private
providers may not have the technical skills necessary to give the proper advice to
communities and ejidos. The private provider registration process and continuing
education program, as well as the exclusion of private providers from giving technical
assistance on investment decisions, are some of the mechanisms that have been designed
to provide a safety net for the communities. The market for non-traditional timber and
non-timber forest products is largely unknown and could lead to overexploitation of
valuable products or to underutilization of the grant facility. The initial diagnostic studies
should prevent any grant funds from being used for overexploited species, rare or
endangered species listed in either the Convention on International Trade in Endangered
Species of Fauna and Flora or under Mexican regulations as listed in Norma Official
Mexicana 059 would be excluded, and the evaluation at midterm would permit an
adjustment to the pilot mechanism.
SUSTAINABILITY
4.13  The project would finance institutional strengthening activities that are expected to
be sustainable in the medium term. In addition, better management of timber resources
would result in longer, sustainable extraction of the resource. Commercially viable,
environmentally sustainable non-timber and non-traditional timber activities would
generate income for their continuation. Demand for the services of private providers is
likely to continue in the post-project period as a result of the expected increase in the
number of communities managing their forests, and in the intensity of their management.
With better training and an improved ability to generate resources for the communities and
ejidos, private providers of technical assistance would be able to provide better services to
the communities and ejidos, which would also increase the demand for their services.



36
5. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1   Conditions of Board Presentation. No special conditions.
5.2   Conditions of Loan Effectiveness.
(a) NAFIN as the Borrower will sign an agreement with SEMARNAP as the
Executing Agency to transfer loan proceeds (Para 3.17).
5.3   Conditions of Disbursement. No special conditions.
5.4   Recommendation. With these agreements and conditions, the project would be
eligible for a LIBOR-based single currency variable rate US Dollar IBRD loan of US$
15.0 million.



Annex 1
Page 1 of 7
MEXICO
COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Assistance to Communities and Ejidos
Background
1.    There are 236 communities and ejidos in Oaxaca with pine-oak forests. These are
found in eight regions of Oaxaca: Caniada, Costa, Istmo, Mixteca, Sierra Norte, Sierra
Sur, Papaloapa, and the Central Valley. In terms of technical assistance and training
needs, these communities fall into four categories, based on their level of forest
management and use: (a) Type I communities whose members depend upon subsistence
agriculture and which do not have any management plans for their forests (122 in
number); (b) Type 2 communities which have management plans, and sell standing timber
for lack of harvesting capacity (known as rentistas and 41 in number); (c) Type 3
communities which have management plans and harvest timber for sale to millers and
industries, but have no processing capacity of their own (43 in number); and (d) Type 4
communities and ejidos which have sawmills, and harvest and process their own timber
(30 in number). Only 12 of the last category have a relatively sophisticated forestry
enterprise with efficient use of their sawmills and some drying capacity and production of
higher-value sawnwood. Communities in Types 3 and 4 together produce 85 percent of
the timber in the state. Table 1 provides more detail on the characteristics of the
communities that fall into the four different categories and on their forest area and
allowable timber cut.
2.    There is substantial diversity within the four broad categories in terms of area of
forest, access to main roads, internal road infrastructure, and ethnic identity. Overall,
these communities are geographically isolated from one another and do not group
themselves into larger political or social units for economic activities or political
representation. These communities and ejidos are grouped into small municipalities, with
as few as three communities per municipality. The municipal authorities have played little
role in forestry, but the individual communities are beginning to develop quite strong
political identities as a result of indigenous movements and some have created communal
statutes that codify customary, including forest, rights.
3.    The three categories which have commercial timber or non-timber extraction
activities organize these through traditional leadership--the community or ejido leader
(Comisariado de Bienes Comunales in the case of communities and the Presidente Ejidal
in the case of ejidos) takes primary responsibility, assisted by a forest enterprise director in
more sophisticated enterprises or head of extraction in less sophisticated enterprises.
There can be a high degree of instability due to shifts in forest management introduced
when community leadership changes.



Annex 1
Page 2 of 7
4.    The most developed forest enterprises are in a subset of communities that were
suppliers of forest concessions until this system was abolished in 1985. An attempt was
made in 1990 to organize communities and ejidos who were former suppliers into forestry
unions. In most cases, these unions remained artificial organizations with strong internal
conflicts of interest. Three unions have emerged as strong organizations: Union de
Communidades Ixtlan-Etla (IXETO) with three members; Union de Comunidades
Zapoteca Chinanteca (UZACHI) with four members; and Union de Comunidades y Ejidos
Forestales de Oaxaca (UCEFO) with three members. These three unions control 40
percent of the total timber production in Oaxaca and have their own, high-quality,
technical foresters.
5.    As in other industrialized communities and ejidos, decisions on annual plans and
budgets are made in a community assembly with the approval of the Comisariado or
Presidente. A characteristic of the Oaxaca forest communities which sets them apart from
those in other states is the cultural value placed by indigenous members on social benefits
as well as economic profits from forests. The unions distribute a significant portion of
their profits as social goods--social services and infrastructure, pension funds for indigent
community members, and job distribution. Communities seek to internalize technical
services by sending out indigenous community members for training to provide forestry
services to their community.
Scope of the Technical Assistance Component
6.    The component has three subcomponents to provide assistance to the forest ejidos
and communities of Oaxaca: promotion; technical assistance; and training. The
component is designed to provide assistance geared to the identified needs of the different
types of communities and ejidos, enabling them to either improve their forest management
and enterprises within the existing productive level or to move to a higher level of
productive organization.
7.    Promotion. Promotional activities are designed to inform potential participants
about the scope of the available assistance and create a greater awareness by each
community of their extractive and non-extractive forestry potential. Promotional activities
will be more individualized for communities in Types I and 2, given their more limited
idea of their needs and potential. The promotional activities will include the following:
* Promotion of regional fora by the four regional offices of SEMARNAP Oaxaca,
targeting communities within a sub-regional area for meetings bringing leaders and
other interested community members together within the sub-region to exchange
information about the program of intervention and channel demands to project
implementation staff for training and information. SEMARNAP would promote these
fora, but encourage the communities to invite each other to fora meetings, and over
time to generate their own agendas for the fora. The regional fora are a means of
bringing together communities from within a sub-region, to reduce the distance the
communities must travel, and provide a more personalized transfer of information to



TYPOLOGY OF COMMUNITIES AND EJIDOS IN TEMPERATE FORESTS IN OAXACA
TYPE                          CHARACTERISTICS                           PERCEIVED NEEDS              TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE   TRAINING NEEDS
#1
Communities/ejidos with     Economy based on subsistence agriculture      Social Organization around Forestry   Inventory                 Awareness training
no forest management or                                                    Forest management plan               Management plan           Harvestng techniques
extraction activites or plans                                              Community Resource Strategy          Conservation plan         Equipment managemt
Conservation plans                   Advisory services         Market analysis
Total: 134                  Most are distant from road infrastructure                                                                     Roads planning
Total Forest Area: 150, 000*    Little communal road system
Range: 100-5000 has.
#2
Communities/ejidos that sell    Communal Ownership of Forests and Pastures  To improve current use:             Business skills           Road Planning
standing timber (Rentistas)                                               Assistance in negotiating contracts   Management plan improved
Current Management Plan                       Technical forestry skills            Improved extraction       Harvesting techniques
Total: 41                                                                 Accounting/supervision skills         Environmental Studies     Market analysis
Total Forest Area: 124,342 has Annual contracts with buyers for standing timber    Improved management plans    Non-timber product studies  Silvicultural skills
Range: 1,450 - 40,000 has.    Some network of extraction roads constructed by  To undertake own harvests                                  Conservation issues
Allowable cut: 1,000-24,000 m3  private timber providers                   Organizational, harvesting, business                           Administrative skills
silvicultural skills
#3
Communities/ejidos with     Current Management Plan                        Improvements in Management plans     Identification of new products Fire/insect control
forest enterprises who sell  Community members help implement M. Plan      Conservation plans                   Improved management       Equipment use
harvested wood but have no    Employ community members in forestry activities  Business skill upgrading         Control of fire or insects  Feasibility study tools
other processing capacity   Economy primarily agricultural, forest income  Market information/analysis          Market analysis           Financing sources
supplementary                                 Silvicultural, fire control, insect control  Ecotourism options  Silvicultural skills
Total: 54                   Harvest between 30 and 70% of the allowable cut    Analysis of business cost/returns  Non-timber product study    Conservaton
Total Forest Area: 156,253 has. Complete bureaucratic procedures for permits, etc.   New product development
Range: 150-17,000 has.     themselves
Allowable Cut: 1,000-32,000m3
#4
Communities/ejidos that     Forestry greater share of total community income  Improvements in business management   Improvements in product    Fire/insect control
process as well as harvest  Twelve of thirty have efficient (constant) use of  Analysis of enterprise and opportuniiies    processing and finishing  Financing sources
their own wood              sawmill and relatvely efficient administration  Market information and analysis     Improved management       Feasibility study skills
Rest have problems with adminstration, markets,  New Product development            of resource base         Market analysis
Total: 30                   and management of operations.                  Conservation and ecotourism options  Diversification           Equipment use
Total Forest Area: 296,442 has. Complete bureaucratic process themselves.  Skills to prepare financing proposals  Market analysis         Business management
Range: 700-36,000 has.      Diversified products and market relationships.  Non-timber forest products          Conservation and tourism    Silvicultural skills
Allowable cut: 3,500-82,000 m3 Collective and individual benefits of forest  Improved management plans          opportuntes               Conservabon
Industries: all sawmill;few dryer enterprises (some have social funds)
W, 



Annex 1
Page 4 of 7
communities, while still treating these communities individually, each network
functioning over time, but this should be a dynamic that develops without project
intervention.
* Participatory rapid appraisals by non-government organizations in about 175
communities and ejidos over the first three years of the project to transfer analytical
tools to community members that would enable them to take a more active role in
natural resource management decisions, and as a means of gathering more reliable
information about the needs, capabilities, and interests of the communities.
*  Written pamphlets and manuals in Spanish and indigenous languages directed to
communities and ejidos, private providers, and government and non-governmental
institutions interested in the sector regarding management plan content, criteria for
access to technical assistance and training, methods of evaluating the quality of
services being provided, environmental concerns, social and cultural values, including
preservation of cultural sites, marketing tools, business tips, and harvesting and
processing techniques.
*  Radio and audio-visual programs, drawing upon the Oaxaca Indigenist Institute radio
transmitter system to project in indigenous languages as well as Spanish to disseminate
information about the project and to disseminate technical knowledge or document
experiences of participating communities.
* Workshops with non-government organizations and community extension agents to
disseminate information about the program and encourage these individuals to assist in
advising communities about the program.
*  Provision of procurement advisory services to communities on defining needs,
soliciting bids, preparing a short list or making the decision to contact directly,
evaluating proposals, selecting a private provider, signing the contract, and
monitoring compliance with the contract.
*  Development of a system of participatory monitoring and evaluation, and
implementation of this system with participating communities, so they can provide
evaluation data to the project, using their own performance criteria.
8.    Technical Assistance Studies. For studies, the project will finance a percentage
of the cost of forest management plans, additional studies to upgrade existing plans,
studies related to resource conservation, applied forestry research, and studies related to
organization, administration, marketing and efficiency of forestry enterprises. Forest
research would be demand-driven, such as establishment of permanent sample plots, and
carried out by research institutions or consultants at the request of the community. The
eligibility and specific criteria for the approval of technical assistance are as follows:



Annex 1
Page 5 of 7
CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
ELIGIBILITY                      SPECIFIC CRITERIA
Applicant          Community must be in the pine-oak zone in Oaxaca, and must
be included on the list in the implementation letter
Community General Assembly Acta legitimates request
Request in form of letter from Beneficiary Community
Proposal           For all studies, chosen private provider is in the Roster of
Private Providers
For management plans or updating of exitisting management
plans, no up-to-date management plan exists
For other studies, information on existing management plan is
up-to-date
Field evaluation of the resource to be studied has been
undertaken by provider
Scope of work includes:
a) analysis of existing situation;
b) identifying main constraints or unrealized potential of
community
c) proposed terms of reference of study
d) format of findings and plan for their dissemination
e) products expected
Expenditures       New Management Plan: Mexican Pesos 150,000/ study
Updating of Management Plan: Mexican Pesos 100,000/ study
Complementary Study: Mexican Pesos 30,000/ study
Conservation Studies: Mexican Pesos 30,000/ study
Enterprise Efficiency and Market Studies: Mexican Pesos
40,000/ study
Special Studies: Mexican Pesos 75,000/ study
Forest Research: Mexican Pesos 150,000/ study
Cost Sharing       Type 1 Community: 0% paid by community
Type 2 Community: 20% paid by community
Type 3 Community: 35% paid by community
_Type 4 Community: 50% paid by community
9.    Standardized terms of reference are available for the use of communities in
preparing technical assistance service proposals. To allow for flexibility, if communities
want to contract additional studies that are not on the list, then the terms of reference
would be subject to prior review by the Bank, and the other documentation would be



Annex 1
Page 6 of 7
subject to review according to the project's procurement arrangements for consultants.
Under no circumstances would this subcomponent finance feasibility studies for
investment in harvesting or processing equipment. Rather, the tools for carrying out such
analyses will be given to communities through the training courses. The project will not
finance any roads-related civil works or engineering studies, although management plans
and marketing studies might include a discussion of the availability and possible need for
roads.
10.   Training. A range of training courses will be developed and offered to
communities and ejidos on a demand driven basis. A course on environmental impact and
conservation issues will be required for all communities and ejidos (and private providers)
requesting technical assistance. Other course topics will include:
*  silvicultural knowledge
*  analysis of the contents of a forest management plan
e  administrative and accounting skills
-  community/ejido organization
-  control of fire and insects
-  market analysis of timber and non-timber products
3  conservation and environmental impact
o  technical skills for harvesting and processing
-  criteria for selecting private providers
-  forest protection
o  investment decisions in harvesting and processing equipment and
•  legal and regulatory norms.
11.   Funds for training courses include the cost of developing the curriculum and
training materials, cost per participant of the locale and their residence, if appropriate in
the site where the course is given, and transportation. Communities have expressed
concern that heads of household will find it difficult to be away from home overnight,
because of farm and family responsibilities. A significant number of courses will therefore
be held close to the participants' communities to address this constraint, even
programming the courses over a number of Sundays, for example, to allow busy
householders to attend. The ability of women to attend courses, and ways to make the
courses attractive to their schedules and interests will also be a task of the promotional
unit. Participant's counterpart contribution would be the labor lost by attending the
courses. Two-year tecnica and four-year licenciatura scholarships will also be provided
for community and ejido members for forestry training.
12.   A national level component will be included for community-to-community
seminars to be designed and implemented by ejidos and communities at regional or
national level. This component is based on the successful experience of a recently
completed Institutional Development Fund (IDF) grant for indigenous forest community
training, in which workshops were designed and hosted for 40 communities by



Annex 1
Page 7 of 7
communities with integrated forestry enterprises. Networks or sponsoring communities
can request funds for study tours, seminars in communities or ejidos with more developed
forestry enterprises, or for workshops to exchange information and discuss on-going
issues. As in the case of the IDF grant, funds can be used to invite specialists (both
community/ejido members and outside professionals) to provide orientation on a particular
forestry-related subject of interest to the network.
Implementation Arrangements
13.   The Project Implementation Unit in SEMARNAP Oaxaca will have primary
responsibility for the promotional activities, regional fora and technical assistance. It will
have staff to promote, implement and monitor the component, including: a coordinator,
project promoter, four regional promoters, training officer, procurement advisor to
communities, administrator, and biodiversity advisor.
14.   NAFIN would handle the payments for community procurement. The Sub
Delegation of Planning in SEMARNAP Oaxaca would be responsible for designing and
implementing the training program. For scholarships, the beneficiaries will be nominated
by their communities, and will be selected by a panel consisting of the SEMARNAP
Delegate in Oaxaca, the SEMARNAP Oaxaca Sub Delegate of Natural Resources, the
SEMARNAP Oaxaca Sub Delegate of Planning, the President of the Escuela Tecnica
Forestal de Santa Maria Atzompa, and the SEDAF Secretary. In the case of community-
to-community seminars, funds will be awarded on the basis of proposals submitted to the
Forestry Utilization Division of the Sub Secretariat of Natural Resources in Mexico City
by networks of ejidos and communities. Representatives of potential recipients of the
funds would meet with the Forestry Utilization Division to discuss eligibility criteria and
monitor their implementation.






Annex 2
Page 1 of 7
MEXICO
COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Strengthening the Capacity of Private Service Providers
Objectives
1.    The component has the objectives of. (a) broadening the range; (b) increasing the
quality; and (c) improving the availability of the technical services offered by private providers
to forest producers, particularly in the State of Oaxaca.
Background
Forestry Technical Assistance in Mexico
2.    In the late 1980s government agencies were responsible for providing technical
assistance in forestry. However, with the downsizing of federal government budgets in recent
years most government-financed technical assistance units (most recently called UCODEFOs)
have been privatized. As a result, most forest land owners must now seek technical services
from private providers. The provision of forest management technical assistance services to
forest owners is regulated through Articles 23 and 24 of the Ley Forestal of 1992 and Articles
31 - 37 of Reglamento de la Ley Forestal in 1994. However, this legislation refers only to
basic forestry activities including the preparation of forest management programs, harvesting
plans and timber marking for felling operations. Persons who wish to provide these technical
services must meet a set of minimum qualifications set out under the Forest Regulations and
must register themselves with SEMARNAP which records this information in the Registro
Nacional Forestal. There are at present no registration requirements for the provision of other
technical services to forest land owners such as business practices, accounting, forest product
processing, forest product marketing, forest engineering, environmental assessments or related
studies.
Forestry Technical Assistance in Oaxaca
3.    In the project area of Oaxaca there are currently 23 registered private providers - 17
individuals and 6 companies. The companies employ between 5 and 15 professionals. In
addition there are an unknown number of unregistered providers of non-traditional forest
management services. Communities requiring advice can hire providers directly (many
providers do their own marketing) or they may consult the Registro Nacional Forestal at
SEMARNAP's Direcci6n General Forestal. Some of the more advanced forest communities,



Annex 2
Page 2 of 7
groups of communities or unions of ejidos, have their own full-time technical forestry
specialists, but this is beyond the means of most forest producers. In addition to the private
providers, SEDAF in Oaxaca also operates a limited extension program. Its extension program
concentrates mainly on nursery management, plantations and forest protection (fire and
disease).
Community and Ejido Forest Management in Oaxaca
4.    According to the Subdelegation of SEMARNAP, approved forest management plans
in Oaxaca cover an estimated 550,000 hectares while annual cutting plans cover approximately
20,000 hectares per annum. The cutting cycle varies between 10 and 15 years, with a rotation
of around 50 years. The average mean annual increment is around 1.5 m3/hectare/annum.
Around 114 communities produce around 400,000 m3 of logs a year, about 36 percent of the
permissible cut.
Markets for Forest Products and Demand for Technical Assistance
5.    The stumpage value of pine (its standing value), strongly influenced by proximity to
markets and accessibility, is at present around 110 pesos per m3. Macro-economic factors
exert an important influence on the demand for timber and related products in Oaxaca. The
opening of forest product markets to international competition resulted in lower prices for
imported timber in Oaxaca City in 1994 than for locally harvested timber. The devaluation of
the peso in early 1995 increased the price of imported timber in peso terms, resulting in
increased demand for Oaxacan timber, but the accompanying economic downturn dampened
that demand. Consequently, production of timber in Oaxaca is expected to be lower in 1995
than in either 1994 or 1993.
6.    The resulting present lack of liquidity faced by many forest producer communities has
greatly reduced the demand for technical forestry services. It has also left many forest
communities indebted to private providers who prepared management plans which cannot be
implemented because of weak timber markets. In response, the newly privatized providers
have sharply cut the cost and quality of basic services (e.g., preparation of basic forest
management plans), in order to compete with other registered providers and "pirate" providers.
This, coupled with the desire of many communities to simply comply with the legal
requirement to have a management plan, has resulted in a serious decline in the quality of the
plans produced. Recently, there has also been a serious reduction in the variety of services
requested and offered. Many private providers say that where demand for forest technical
services exists, it is mostly for tree marking, which has to be done in accordance with the
Annual Felling Plan. Private providers charge 15 pesos/m3 for all activities related to
compliance with management plans. The cost of preparing a forest management plan is around
20 to 100 pesos/hectare, with an average cost of 30 pesos/hectare. In some cases the buyer of



Annex 2
Page 3 of 7
the standing timber may pay the provider costs and deduct it from the selling price, or the
provider may act as the rniddle man.
7.    The project is designed to position the government, communities and private providers
to take advantage of increased demand for forest products and services, and in fact, to help
generate that demand, by offering improved technical assistance services to the communities
and making them aware of new production and conservation alternatives to traditional
methods.
Roster of Private Providers
8.    In order to participate in the project, private providers will have to become part of the
project roster or padron. This process has two stages, a pre-qualification stage and a
qualification stage.
9.    Pre-qualification Requirements. At present, the Direcci6n General Forestal
manages the Registro Nacional Forestal which includes a list of private providers who have
registered with the Government by providing the following information (As described in Oficio
510-456/95 051, August 22, 1995).
For Individual Providers:
1.    Name of provider of forestry technical services.
2.    Copy of title and certified copy of professional ID in Forestry Science
Engineering or related sciences with post-graduate studies in Forestry
Management.
3.    Certified copy of Tax Payer ID or Tax Payer Registry.
4.    Address.
5.    Three years of professional experience: Curriculum Vitae or documentation
on professional experience.
Note: The certification of documents should be done by a notary public.
For Enterprises:
1.    Copy of by-laws certified by notary public or Certified Public Register.
2.    Copy of Tax Payer ID or Tax Payer Registry.
3.    Address.
4.    List of employees hired by the enterprise and that have complied with the
established registration pre-requisites for individuals providing forestry
technical services, as noted above.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 7
10.   The list of 241 individual private providers and 41 firms in the Registro Nacional
Forestal will be used as a starting point. The Direcci6n General Forestal will send letters of
invitation to the private providers that would outline the terms and conditions that would apply
to activities under the project, and would solicit expressions of interest. At the same time
efforts would be made to reach private providers who have not registered and to encourage
them to register in both the Registro Nacional Forestal and the project roster. Once the private
providers have indicated they wish to participate and agree to the terms outlined in the letter of
invitation, they would be pre-qualified. The process and qualification requirements would be
similar for other professionals since rosters exist at NAFIN and other agencies.
11.   Qualification Requirements. All private providers, traditional and non-traditional,
wishing to receive project financing to provide technical assistance to project beneficiary
communities, would be required to attend an orientation seminar of approximately two weeks
duration. This orientation and immersion program would have the objective of exposing all
providers to the latest natural resource management techniques for both production and
conservation as well as the latest techniques for providing effective technical assistance. The
latter would include review of the latest teaching and extension methods, with special emphasis
on the participatory aspects of natural resource management. The participants would not be
expected to be specialists in these subject areas on finishing the course, but rather be aware of
the disciplines and how they fit into the integrated natural resource management picture. The
program is also expected to increase the interest of private providers in the more intensive
continuing education program courses to be offered under the project (see below).
12.   The program would include the overview courses outlined below, plus a practicum
period of two or three days in which participants would take field trips to actual forest
communities and apply their new knowledge in a workshop setting. Attendance at this
workshop and satisfactory completion of its curriculum, practicum and final exam will be a
requirement for forestry and non-forestr private providers in order to qualify for project
financing.
13.   The program orientation and immersion would include, but not necessarily be limited
to the following subject areas:
Project Orientation - This session would describe the project in detail and familiarize
the private providers with its objectives, components and activities, its institutional
arrangements, flow of funds and monitoring and evaluations aspects. This will allow
the private providers to tailor their technical assistance skills to better meet the
beneficiaries needs and efficiently meet project goals. It would also turn these private
providers into an additional group of informal project promoters who, familiar with the
project's design and structure, could help educate forest producers in the project area
about the overall objectives of the project.



Annex 2
Page 5 of 7
Forest Management - This session would include: (a) the history of forest
management in Mexico's pine-oak forests; (b) the different management systems
currently in use; (c) the latest management techniques being proposed, tested or
evaluated for use in Mexico's pine-oak forests; and (d) the latest management concepts
designed to improve the environmental protection and management for multiple use of
the forest resources including non-timber forest products.
Forest Administration and Planning - This session would include: (a) inforrnation
systems, GIS systems, inventories, road planning and layout, cutting schedules; and (b)
basic administration and control systems to assure efficient forest operations.
Forest Protection - This session would include basic systems for protecting forest
areas from fire, insects and diseases. The course would cover detection, control and
prevention of these forest threats.
Forest Ecology and Silviculture - This session would look at the management of
forest areas from an integrated, ecological point of view, seeing the forest as an
integrated environmental system in which all the organisms within are interconnected
and interdependent, and in which elements such as water, sols and topography need to
be taken into consideration before sustainable management plans can be developed.
Subjects introduced would include: dendrology, forest ecology concepts, ecosystem
analysis, forest stand dynamics and silvicultural systems.
Non-Timber Forest Products - This session would provide the participants with a
background of Mexico's experience with non-timber forest products, including success
stories, failures and analyses of case histories. The importance of managing forests to
maximize the returns from non-timber products without sacrificing timber income and
the need for sound market analyses will be included.
Environmental Assessment - This session would include: (a) the latest and most cost-
effective methods of canying out environmental assessments to determine the
ecological impact of various forest activities including road building and maintenance,
harvesting, regeneration and extraction of non-timber products; (b) evaluation of the
ecology of the forest production area, including identification of areas worthy of
protection and biological survey methods; (c) basic forest management techniques
aimed at improving biodiversity protection without unduly sacrificing income
generation and productivity; and (d) a review of current environmental protection
legislation in Mexico.
Harvesting, Transport and Primary Manufacturing - The subjects covered in this
session would include (a) the basics of cost-effective and appropriate technology for
harvesting, transporting and primary processing of the wood products from Mexico's



Annex 2
Page 6 of 7
forests; and (b) technical and business aspects of sawmilling and other primary forest
products industries, including development of feasibility studies for establishing,
upgrading or expanding industries.
Social Aspects of Forestry Development--Participation of Local Communities -
This session will familiarize the participants with the importance of including producer
community members in the decision making process before drawing up management
plans for their resource. This will include the concept of "ownership" of the
management plan and its objectives and assure that the products of that plan will not be
in conflict with the community's basic economic and social objectives.
Financial and Economic Analysis and Marketing - This session would cover: (a)
basic marketing skills and market development, including global market and trade
issues; (b) basic negotiating skills to determine or bargain for a fair price for products
sold by the communities; and (c) basic business management skills, including
accounting, pricing, and development of financial feasibility analysis for all forest
operations to determine their viability and probable returns on investment.
Legal and Regulatory Aspects of Forestry - Included in this session would be (a) a
summary of Mexican forestry legislation and regulations and related laws, including
explanation of the spirit and letter of this legislation and its implications for the
communities' forest sector investments and their viability; (b) description and
explanation of the latest trade and commerce laws with clear explanation of the
implications for the markets, prices and competitiveness of community forestry
enterprises; and (c) land tenure, agrarian reform and related legislation.
14.   As noted above, this immersion program would last two weeks and consist of courses,
workshops and a two to three day practicum for applying lessons learned to real case studies in
the field. The program would be offered four times per year in the first two years of the
project and once or twice a year thereafter depending on demand. It is expected that with a
capacity of between ten and fifteen students per program, all of Oaxaca's private providers as
well as a significant number of out-of-state providers would have the opportunity to attend
and, in doing so, qualify for participation in the project's technical assistance activities.
Continuing Education Program
15.   Survey of Private Provider Skills - A team of consultants knowledgeable in
traditional and non-traditional technical assistance disciplines and familiar with the forestry
activities of the four community types in Oaxaca, would design and implement a 100 percent
survey of the private providers in Oaxaca and a sample of out-of-state providers. The purpose
would be to measure the adequacy of the existing technical assistance services being provided.



Annex 2
Page 7 of 7
and the skills that would need to be upgraded in order to satisfy demand from the countries and
ejidos. The skills that would be assessed would include:
Traditional: (a) forest land surveys and demarcation; (b) inventories and productivity
estimating; (c) forest management; (d) forest ecology/silviculture including native forest
structure and biodiversity, wildlife management; (e) forest engineering; (f) harvesting
and transport; (g) primary forest products manufacturing; (h) forest protection; (i)
environmental impact analysis; (j) watershed protection; and (k) integrated natural
resource management.
Non-traditional: (a) economic, financial analysis; (b) basic business administration
and marketing; (c) social forestry/participation; (d) legal and regulatory aspects; and (e)
non-timber forest products.
16.   Based on the survey, a continuing education program will be designed to provide in-
depth coverage of the subject areas that are shown to need upgrading. The program would
consist of one or two week courses of a post-graduate level quality. In order to continue to
qualify for participation in project-financed technical assistance programs for the communities,
private providers would have to attend at least one of these courses each year. Even though
this requirement would exist, it is expected that the quality, low cost (essentially income
forgone while attending the courses) and timeliness of the courses would attract private
providers from Oaxaca and even outside of the state. Four modules of a total duration of 60
hours and consisting of four to five courses, would be offered each year in years 2 through 5 of
the project. For private providerfinms, at least one member of their professional staff would be
required to attend these courses each year.
Implementation Arrangements
17.   The Direcci6n General Forestal's Direcci6n de Aprovechamiento Forestal would be
responsible for the survey of provider skills and preparation of the project roster. The
Direcci6n General Forestal and the Sub-Delegation of Planning of SEMARNAP Oaxaca
would design the orientation and immersion program and the continuing education program.
The Sub-Delegation of Planning of SEMARNAP Oaxaca would implement the training
program.






Annex 3
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO
COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Promotion of Non-Timber Forest Products
I.    Background. As in other countries, information on the extent, use, production and
economic importance of non-timber forest products (NTFPs) in Mexico is incomplete, and
what is available is widely dispersed and poorly documented. While reliable data is available on
the production of traditionally traded, NTFPs, such as chicle, mushrooms, resin, orchids,
asparagus, edible palms, peppers, gladioli bulbs, yuca, nopal, oregano, heno, nogal, honey and
opuntia, data on non-traditional informally traded NTFPs is virtually non-existent. Examples of
these include traditional medicines, herbs, edible fruits and seeds, flavorings, fibres, dyes,
essences, fragrances, and insects.
2.    The recorded production of NTFPs is highest in the temperate forests (38,000 tons per
annum), followed by output in the arid/semiarid forrnations (17,500 tons per annum), and the
tropical moist formations (12,800 tons per annum). However this is not a true reflection of the
situation because of poor and incomplete recording, the strong influence which resin
production has on output from temperate forests, and the fact that the data does not include
non-traded or informally traded NTFPs which are extremely important in some areas. For
example, some 350,000 tons of NTFPs such as fruits, rhizomes, roots, flowers and bark are
thought to be traded informally each year, and some 1,200 medicinal plants are thought to be in
use throughout Mexico. Plants with medicinal potential in Mexico are thought to number
about 10,000. Given the unreliability of data, it is difficult to estimate the precise monetary
value of NTFP production, but the Mexico Resource Conservation and Forestry Sector
Review (Grey Cover Report No. 13114-ME) estimates that the potential annual value of
NTFP output could be as high as US$ 7 billion.
3.    Concerning management systems for NTFPs, the general picture seems to be one of
over-exploitation of a lirnited number of traditional or widely traded products such as chicle,
resin, orchids and bushmeat, combined with the under-utilisation of lesser-known products.
The negative impact of the mismanagement of NTFPs manifests itself in three ways. The first
is one of lost opportunity in that the potential to alleviate rural poverty and improve food
security is not being realised. The increased use of NTFPs offers potential to generate much
needed income in rural households and to provide valuable dietary supplements at certain times
of the year. The second is that the exclusion of NTFPs from forest benefits encourages
deforestation because forests become undervalued relative to other land uses. An important
contributory factor to forest conversion has always been its undervaluation, whereby the
exclusion of values accruing to NTFPs make forests appear to be far less competitive
forms of land use than agriculture. In some areas, conversion of forest to agriculture has
resulted in serious land degradation and erosion. A better understanding of the role of



Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
NTFPs could help reverse this process. The third is that the over-exploitation of selected
NTFPs may be leading to a loss of biodiversity and environmental degradation.
4.    Institutional Responsibility. Primary institutional responsibility for NTFPs lies with
the Direccion General Forestal (DGF) of SEMARNAP which, through the Forestry Law
(1992) and the Regulations to the Law (1994) is responsible for monitoring and controlling the
production, transport, and trade in selected NTFPs. In reality, the DGF's capacity to comply
with its mandate with regard to NTFPs is severely limited because of staff shortages (it has
only one person assigned to NTFPs at federal level) and budgetary constraints. A change of
approach is needed whereby the DGF should concentrate its scarce resources on promotional
activities and the prohibition of exploitation and trade in endangered and protected NTFPs.
The Instituto Nacional de Ecologia (INE) advises the Procuraduria Federal de Proteccion al
Ambiente (PFPA) on species identification for subsequent enforcement. The Comission
Nacional de Aprovechamiento de la Biodiversidad (CONABIO) is responsible for biodiversity
uses and products.
5.    Objectives. The objective of this component is to identify, promote and demonstrate
the market potential and sustainable management of potentially tradable NTFPs.
6.    Scope. The component would focus its activities in the six priority states with
pine-oak forests: Oaxaca, Chihuahua, Durango, Guerrero, Michoacan and Jalisco. The
inclusion of additional states would be considered at the time of the project's mid-term
review.
7.    To maximize the social and economic impacts of the component, activities will be
focused on the production and use of potentially tradable NTFPs, which are likely to offer
more potential for cottage scale development, income generation and poverty alleviation,
and for which information should be more readily obtained.
8.    Diagnostic Studies. In the first year of the project, a detailed assessment of formally
and informally traded NTFPs would be undertaken in each participating state to compile
information on the extent of the resource base, management systems (if any), annual output,
processing systems, marketing systems, gender issues (who does what) and prices. The aim
would be to improve the knowledge base on NTFPs to identify their unrealised potential and to
identify those which would not be financed through the project because they are threatended
through bad management and over-exploitation. The work would be carried out by
consultants and would require one year to complete so as to cover seasonality of supply, at the
end of which a state-by-state report would be prepared. At the same time, a promotional
program would be carried out by the SEMARNAP delegations to increase awareness among
communities of component objectives and activities.
9.    Grants. After the diagnostic studies are completed, grants would be made to assist
communities to field-test promising proposals for the development of potentially tradable
NTFPs. The process would be demand-driven, competitive and transparent whereby
communities and ejidos (individuals would not be eligible to apply) in participating states would



Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
be invited to compete for grant funding to help them to develop potentially tradable NTFPs.
These applications would be competitively appraised (see last section) against clearly defined,
transparent criteria, which would include:
Applicant Eligibility
* only communities and ejidos in the six priority states with pine oak forests, would be eligible
to apply;
* communities would not be eligible to receive assistance for more than one project;
* communities should be legally recognised entities with clear and unencumbered title to their
forests, and should have an approved management plan for their forests;
Proposal Eligibility
* forests with disputed ownership or user rights would be excluded;
* areas subject to total protection would be excluded;
3 project proposals should be financially viable;
- each proposal should be endorsed by the Comisariado of the community submitting the
proposal;
3 only one project per product per state would be financed each year, with a maximum of
three projects per product;
* consideration would be given to potentially viable activities adjacent to protected area buffer
zones and to the domestication of overexploited species;
* certain products may be excluded as a result of the studies undertaken in each state in
the first year of the project, and will not be eligible;
3 rare or endangered species listed in either the Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species of Fauna and Flora or under Mexican regulations as listed in
Norma Official Mexicana 059 would be excluded.
Expenditure Eligibility
* project proposals should not exceed US$ 20,000;
* grant disbursement should not exceed two years;
* eligible expenditure would be limited to tools, materials, field and packaging equipment,
temporary civil works, technical assistance and limited inputs; labor would be excluded;
Cost Sharing
* project funding would to be limited to 75 percent of total project costs, with the community
being expected to meet the remaining 25 percent in cash or in kind.
10.   Evaluation of Results. The final step would comprise the monitoring, evaluation,
publication and dissemination of results and experiences, not only within states but also
between states where the potential benefits of information transfer can be seen. The evaluation



Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
process would include a detailed description of methodologies associated with the successful
harvesting, transport, processing and marketing of the product, together with information on
costs, returns, and risks. The aim would be to identify and promote success stories so that
communities in other areas with similar resources could be made aware of the income
generating potential of NTFPs and the steps that should be taken to realise that potential.
Failures and the lessons learnt from these experiences would also be highlighted. Further
studies on NTFP development and an environmental assessment of the further development of
successful products would be undertaken.
11.   Implementation Arrangements. DAF would be responsible for overall project
implementation. DAF would contract and supervise consultants to undertake the diagnostic
studies.
12.   As part of the promotional efforts in the project in Oaxaca, communities would be
given information about the objectives and availability of this program. In the five other states,
staff at the SEMARNAP delegations would travel to communities to promnote the project.
Potential applicants would be given assistance in preparing the necessary documentation.
13.   In Oaxaca, the applications would be sorted by the Project Implementation Unit. In
other states, the applications would be sorted by the staff at the SEMARNAP delegations and
submitted to the state level Review Panel, consisting of the SEMARNAP Delegate
(Chairman), State Forestry Secretary, and a COPLADE Representative (Economist). The
State Review Panel would meet and make the preliminary selection. The Comisariado would
be notified immediately.
14.   All applications approved by the State Review Panels would be sent to the Project
Management Unit in SEMARNAP in Mexico City for review. Full reports would be prepared
and submitted to the Federal Review Panel. The Federal Review Panel consisting of the
SEMARNAP Sub-Secretary of Natural Resources (Chairman), the Director General Forestal,
and the CONABIO President, would meet and make the election. The State Review Panels
and the comisariados would be notified immediately. A list of successful applicants and a
summary of the projects proposed would be made available to all communities. The
SEMARNAP delegation would enter into an agreement with the selected communities. On
the basis of the agreement, SEMARNAP would give an advance to the community for the first
tranche of expenditures as documented in the proposal. Subsequent tranche releases would be
based on evaluations of physical progress made by SEMARNAP staff. An evaluation would
be undertaken for all projects after they are completed, and lessons learned would be
disseminated.



Annex 4
Page 1 of 5
MEXICO
COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Institutional Strengthening Component
Background
1.    A number of institutions are stakeholders and participants in the design,
management, and monitoring of the project, including: the SEMARNAP delegation in
Oaxaca, which includes the Sub-Delegation for Natural Resources, the Sub-Delegation of
Environment (INE), the Delegation for the Procuraduria Federal de Proteccion al
Ambiente (PFPA); SEDAF's Forestry Development Department; the COPLADE in
Oaxaca; and SEMARNAP, INE, and PFPA at federal level. These institutions have a
direct impact on the development of the forestry sector in Oaxaca and elsewhere in
Mexico, and on the implementation of the project.
2.    Two criteria have guided the design of project implementation: to give decision
making authority and resources to the lowest level possible within the federal-state-
community structure, so as to capture demand from within the community; and to work as
much as possible within units that already exist rather than setting up parallel structures,
so as to ensure sustainability.
3.    At the time of the establishment of SEMARNAP, the responsibilities for forestry
activities were transferred from the Secretariat of Agriculture to SEMARNAP, but not all
of the resources were transferred. As a result, the sector is now severely underfunded,
especially at the state level. Within SEMARNAP, the emphasis in the sector has shifted
towards sustainable natural resource management and reduced deforestation, implying the
need for skills and resources that have not traditionally been strongly represented in the
sector.
Objectives
4.    The objective of this component is to strengthen the federal and state institutions
working in forestry conservation and development. Specifically, this component would
strengthen the capacity of. (a) federal institutions to carry out normative and enforcement
activities that have a direct impact on community forestry; (b) state government
institutions in preparation for the eventual decentralization of resources and
responsibilities; (c) project management and implementation units to implement, monitor,
and evaluate the project; and (d) federal and state institutions to monitor the pilot
activities in Oaxaca, and prepare similar projects in the five priority states with pine-oak
forests.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 5
Description
5.    This component would have the following sub-components: (a) strengthening the
review of forestry management and conservation plans; (b) strengthening SEMARNAP
delegations and state secretariats; (c) establishing a Sistema Nacional de Informacion
Forestal and a Registro Nacional Forestal; (d) upgrading staff skills; (e) establishing two
project management units; (f) and preparing similar projects in five other priority states
with pine-oak forests, based on the experiences in Oaxaca.
(a)   Review of Forestry Management and Conservation Plans. This sub-
component would finance consultants, salaries, field and computer equipment,
vehicles, and operating expenditures to strengthen the review, approval, and audit
of forestry management and conservation plans by SEMARNAP in Oaxaca.
Forestry communities and ejidos are mandated by law to prepare forestry
management plans. These plans are prepared by private providers, and cover five
to ten years of activity. The plans include information such as location and
quantification of the forestry resources, general physical and biological description
of the resource base, annual cutting plans describing the species, volumes and
expected productivity, description of the silvicultural system, conservation plans,
fire prevention and control, environmental impact analysis, reforestation, and
infrastructural requirements. In the temperate zone, the inclusion of activities such
as road building would require a separate environmental assessment. The benefits
that are likely to result from well produced forestry management plans include
better forest management which would lead to sustained, increased income flows
and improved environmental management and protection.
Since 1992, the review and approval of forestry management plans has been
delegated to the federal delegations at state level. Since the reorganization of
government agencies, these activities now fall to SEMARNAP. Within the
SEMARNAP delegation, four units review or audit management plans. The
Subdelegation of Natural Resources affiliated with the Direccion General Forestal,
is in charge of the process, with inputs from the other units, and issues the
'dictamen' indicating that it has either approved the plan, suggested mitigating
measures, or requested more information. The Subdelegation of Environment
affiliated with INE, reviews the plan for its environmental impact. The Judicial
Unit reviews the plans to make sure the areas covered by the plan are not under
dispute since disputed areas are left out of management plans. Once the plans have
been approved and the activities have been completed, the PFPA Delegation audits
the plan and its implementation, using satellite imagery and reports of the grupos
de vigilancia to focus on problem areas. When it encounters problems it imposes
fines and sanctions on the private provider and the community, as necessary.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 5
In 1994 - 1995, 190 forestry management plans for temperate areas were prepared
and approved in Oaxaca, covering about 400 cutting permits. About 60 to 70
percent of the forestry management plans are either approved or approved with
suggested mitigating measures after the first review. About a dozen were found to
have problems after the audit was completed.
At present in Oaxaca, the plans are tracked manually, and are often difficult to
locate. The reduction in staff as a result of the transfer of responsibilities to
SEMARNAP has created bottlenecks and delays in plan review and approval.
More staff, with better skills, are needed in the SEMARNAP delegation in Oaxaca.
In theory, the findings of the auditors would feed back into the approval process,
so that private providers that had been put on probation would not be able to
submit plans, and communities that had been fined would be more carefully
monitored. In practice, the review and approval process is not linked to the audit
process, requiring the creation of a computerized information management system
to track each plan, and to link the review, approval, and audit findings.
(b)   SEMARNAP Delegations and State Secretariats. This sub-component would
finance equipment, staff, and operating expenses to strengthen the SEMARNAP
delegations and the State Secretariats in the five other priority states with pine-oak
forests. SEMARNAP is in the process of planning the deconcentration of
resources and responsibilities from the federal level to the state delegations,
followed by the decentralization of resources and responsibilities to the State
Secretariats.
(c)   Sistema Nacional de Informacion Forestal (SNIF). This sub-component would
finance consultants to design an Internet based system that would enable private
producers, academics, non-governmental organizations, government agencies, and
others, to access Government information and to create their own databases within
the system.
An attempt in the previous administration to establish a national information
system for the use of government agencies, that would contain government-
collected data was aborted with the transfer of responsibilities for forestry from the
Secretariat of Agriculture to SEMARNAP. This current proposal is significantly
different from the previous proposal in that it reflects the new outlook in the
administration towards information sharing with all groups within the society. The
SNIF will be an Internet-based system that would enable private producers,
academics, non-governmental organizations, government agencies, and others to
access the information, and to create their own databases within the system.
As part of the SNIF, the Registro Nacional Forestal would be computerized.
The Registro is a public register of all the activities that are regulated by the
Government. At present, the Registro includes a roster of certified private
providers of forestry services, the approved forestry management plans, cutting



Annex 4
Page 4 of 5
permits, forestry enterprise permits, approved changes in land use, and the forestry
inventory. The Registro is not computerized, and the data can only be accessed by
visiting the office at the Direccion General Forestal in Mexico City, therefore this
sub-component would also finance computer hardware and software, terminals at
all the state delegations, system administration staff, and maintenance.
(d)   Skills Upgrading. This sub-component would finance consultants, course
materials, facilities, instructors' fees and travel-related expenses, for skills
upgrading through training and scholarships for staff at the federal level, and state
level in the six priority states with pine-oak forests. Selected staff would attend
the technical forestry training courses designed for the private providers. Some
training programs would be designed to upgrade administrative and technology
skills. Scholarships for two year courses and study tours would be available on a
limited basis.
(e)   Project Management and Implementation Units. This sub-component would
finance two units: a Project Management Unit at SEMARNAP in Mexico City
reporting to the Director General of DGF, and including: sufficient qualified staff
such as a coordinator, procurement specialist, technical expert, liaison with
Oaxaca; equipment; studies; travel-related expenses; and operating expenses; and a
Project Implementation at SEMARNAP in Oaxaca reporting to the SEMARNAP
Delegate in Oaxaca, including: sufficient qualified staff such as a coordinator,
administrator, project promoter, four regional promoters, training officer,
procurement advisor to communities, biodiversity advisor; equipment; studies;
travel-related expenses; and operating expenses.
The Project Management Unit at SEMARNAP in Mexico City will be responsible
for guiding project implementation through annual planning, budgeting, and
reporting. It will be the liaison between the different agencies involved in the
project, including SEMARNAP Oaxaca, CONAF, NAFIN, SHCP, and the World
Bank. The Project Management Unit will perform secretariat functions for the
grant and scholarship selection panels at federal level. It will assist with, and when
necessary perform, project accounting, procurement, and disbursement functions.
It will have primary responsibility for project supervision, monitoring of project
activities, monitoring of the status of deforestation and forestry-based income in
Oaxaca, and evaluation of project implementation.
The Project Implementation Unit in SEMARNAP Oaxaca will serve as the primary
point of contact in Oaxaca for the communities, private providers, and agencies
involved in the project. It would be involved in monitoring project activities in
Oaxaca, and would also have responsibility for: (a) Assistance to Communities and
Ejidos - promotional activities, regional units, coordination and implementation of
community procurement for technical assistance; (c) Promotion of NTFP -
monitoring of grant activities.



Annex 4
Page 5 of 5
(f)   Project Preparation in Five Priority States. This sub-component would finance
consultants, travel-related expenses, and workshops to prepare projects in the five
other priority states with pine-oak forests: Chihuahua, Durango, Michoacan,
Jalisco, and Guerrero. This project is piloting an approach to working with
communities and ejidos to improve their management of forestry resources.
SEMARNAP would evaluate the experience in Oaxaca, and extend the approach
to other states, possibly with the support of Bank financed projects.
Implementation Arrangements
6.    SEMARNAP Oaxaca will be responsible for implementing the review and
enforcement of the forestry management plans, with assistance as necessary from the
Direccion de Aprovechamiento Forestal (DAF). CONAF will be responsible for
strengthening the SEMARNAP delegations and the State Secretariats in the five other
priority states with pine-oak forest, and for project preparation in collaboration with them.
CONAF will also be responsible for designing and implementing the SNIF, in consultation
with DAF on the Registro Nacional Forestal. DAF will manage the Registro Nacional
Forestal. Designing and implementing skills upgrading programs for government staff will
be the responsibility of DAF in collaboration with SEMARNAP Oaxaca's Sub-Delegation
of Planning. An Advisory Committee consisting of six Directors General from
SEMARNAP will approve staff scholarships and study tours.






MEXICO                                                                    Annex 5
COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT                                                                 Page 1 of 11
Components Project Cost Summary
(NS'0ee)                                               (USS OOO)
%      % Total                                          %       % Total
Foreign    Bae                                          Foreign     Bae
L1a       Foreign     Totel    Exchaane   Costs   IaI           Foreign      Total    Eitchany    Coas
1.AssistancetoEjidosandCommwuities            58,564.3    2,452.0   61,016.3           4      42      7,808.6       326.9    8,135.5           4       42
2. Strengthening heCapacityofPivatcPravides     7,179.7    2,619.6    9,799.3         27        7      957.3        349.3    1,306.6           27        7
3.PromotionofNonTimberForestProducts          20,938.8      506.3   21,445.0           2       15     2,791.8        67.5    2,859.3            2       15
4. Institutional Stenhaning                    41.664.2   11,476.B   53,141.0         22       37     5,555.2      1,530.2    7.085.5          22       37
Total BASELINECOSTS                              128,346.9   17,054.6  145,401.6         12      100    17,112.9      2,273.9   19,386.9          12      100
PhysicalContmgmicies                           14,359.8    2,122.0   16,421.8         13       11     1,914.6       282.9    2,197.6           13       11
PriceContingencies                             83.814.1   10.085.1   93,899.2         I1       65     1.788.7       200.9    I.989.7           10       10
TotalPROJFCTCOSTS                                226,520.9   29,261.7  255,782.5         11      176    20,816.3      2,757.8   23,574.1          12      122



Annex 5                                                      MEXICO
Page 2 of 11                           COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
(NS 1000)                                            (USS *ooo
%      % Total                                        %        % Total
Foreign    Base                                       Foreign      Base
Local    Foreign      Total    Exchange  Costs       Local      Foreign      Total    Exchange    Costs
L Investment Cosb
A. Consultants
Intermaional Consultants            363.8    2,061.3     2,425.0        85        2        48.5      274.8       323.3          85         2
Locil Consultants                54,220.8          -   54,220.8           -      37     7,229.4          -     7,229.4           -        37
Subtotal Consultants                54,584.5    2,061.3   56,645.8          4       39     7,277.9      274.8     7,552.8          4        39
B. Training
Intemnational tiing                1,212.2    6,869.1    8,081.3        85        6       161.6      915.9    1,077.5           85         6
Local trunig                     29,674.0          -   29,674.0           -      20     3,956.5          -     3,956.5           -        20
Subtotal Training                   30,S86.2    6,869.1    37,755.3        18       26     4,118.2      915.9    5,034.0           18       26
C. Equipment                         2,608.1    7,824.3    10,432.4        75        7       347.7     1,043.2    1,391.0          75        7
D. Vehicles                          1,200.0      300.0     1,500.0        20        1       160.0       40.0       200.0          20         1
E. Grants                           13,500.0          -    13,500.0         -        9     1,800.0          -     1,800.0           -        9
TotallnvestmentCods                   102,778.8    17,054.6   119,833.4       14      82    13,703.8    2,273.9   15,977.8           14        82
IL Recurrent Comb
A. Operatin costs                    3,485.0          -     3,485.0                  2       464.7          -       464.7           -        2
B. Salaries                         13,331.3          -    13,331.3         -        9     1,777.5                1,777.5           - 
C. Operation and maintenance
Equipmnentinaintenance             1,851.9         -      1,851.9         -       1       246.9          -       246.9           -I
D. Office supplies                   6,900.0          -     6,900.0         -        5       920.0                  920.0           -        5
Tota RecurrentCosts                    25.568.2          -    25,568.2         -      18      3,409.1          -     3,409.1                   IS
TotalBASEINE COSTS                    128,346.9   17,054.6  145,401.6         12      100    17,112.9    2,273.9   19,386.9           12       100
PhysicalContingencies               14,359.8    2,122.0   16,481.8         13       11     1,914.6      282.9    2,197.6           13       11
Price Contingencies                 83,814.1   10,085.1    93,899.2        11       65     1,788.7      200.9    1,989.7           10        10
Total PROJECT COSTS                   226,520.9   29,261.7  255,782.5         11      176    20,816.3    2,757.8   23,574.1           12       122



MEXICO                                                     Annex 5
COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT                                               Page 3 of 11
Project Components by Year -- Base Costs
(US$ '000)
Base Cost
1996      1997      1998      1999      2000       2001      Total
1. Assistance to Ejidos and Communities          -    1,146.5   1,753.9   1,824.2   1,812.2   1,598.7   8,135.5
2. Strengthening the Capacity of Private Providers  -  237.8     284.5     269.4      261.2     253.6   1,306.6
3. Promotion of Non Timber Forest Products             523.3     560.0     608.0      560.0     608.0   2,859.3
4. Institutional Strengthening                 3.8   2,405.5   1,360.1   1,126.7   1,141.1   1,048.3   7,085.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                               3.8   4,313.1   3,958.5   3,828.4   3,774.5   3,508.6  19,386.9
Physical Contingencies                         0.2     484.2     458.4     434.7      429.7     390.5   2,197.6
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                                     0.6   1,308.9   2,021.1   2,327.8   2,597.0   2,718.0  10,973.4
Foreign                                     -       42.5      25.0      36.2      47.8       49.5     200.9
SubtotalInflation                           0.6   1,351.4   2,046.1   2,364.0   2,644.8   2,767.4  11,174.3
Devaluation                                 -0.5   -1,162.7  -1,753.0  -1,962.9  -2,129.7  -2,175.9  -9,184.6
SubtotalPriceContingencies                     0.1     188.7     293.1     401.1      515.1     591.6   1,989.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                               4.0   4,986.0   4,709.9   4,664.2   4,719.3   4,490.6  23,574.1
Taxes                                          0.6     747.9     706.5     699.6      707.9     673.6   3,536.1
Foreign Exchange                                 -    1,121.6    401.6     421.2      437.9     375.5   2,757.8



Annex 5                                            MEXICO
Page 4 of 11                    COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Components by Year -- Totals Including Contingencies
(USS '000)
Totabls Including Contingendes
1996     1997      1998      1999      2000      2001     Total
1.AssistancetoEjidosandConimunities                    -   1,364.5   2,145.4   2,291.2   2,335.2   2,113.1  10,249.5
2. Strengtheningthe Capacity of Private Providers      -    276.8    341.7    331.6    329.3    328.2   1,607.6
3. Prmotion of Non Timber Forest Products              -    577.4    607.0    681.5    638.9    717.4   3,222.2
4. Institutional Strengthening                       4.0   2,767.3   1,615.8   1,359.9   1,415.9   1,331.9   8,494.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                        4.0   4,986.0   4,709.9   4,664.2   4,719.3   4,490.6  23,574.1



MEXICO                                                       Annex 5
COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT                                                 Page 5 of 11
Project Components by Year -- Investment/Recurrent Costs
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1996     1997      1993      1999     2000      2001      Total
A. Asslstance to Ejidos and Communities
Investment Costs                                       -   1,364.5   2,145.4   2,291.2   2,335.2   2,113.1  10,249.5
SubtotalAssistancetoEjldosandCommununles                  -   1,364.5   2,145.4   2,291.2   2,335.2   2,113.1  10,249.5
B. Strengthening the Capacity of Private Providers
Investment Costs                                        -    203.6    266.5    254.5    250.1    247.0   1,221.6
Recuent Costs                                           -     73.3      75.2      77.2     79.2      81.2    386.0
Subtotal Strengthening the Capadty of Prilvate Provide    -    276.8    341.7    331.6    329.3    328.2   1,607.6
C. Promotion of Non Timber Forest Products
Investment Costs                                        -    415.9    441.3    511.5    464.5    538.4   2,371.6
Recurrent Costs                                         -    161.5    165.7    170.0    174.4    179.0    850.7
Subtotal Promotion of Non Timber Forest Products          -    577.4    607.0    681.5    638.9    717.4   3,222.2
D. Institutional Strengthening
Investment Costs                                        -   2,260.1   1,092.8    823.2    865.3    771.6   5,812.9
Recurret Costs                                        4.0    507.2    523.0    536.6    550.6    560.3   2,681.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                     4.0   4,986.0   4,709.9   4,664.2   4,719.3   4,490.6  23,574.1
TotallnvestmentCosts                                    -   4,244.1   3,946.0   3,880.3   3,915.1   3,670.1  19,655.6
Total RecurrntCosts                                   4.0    742.0    764.0    783.8    804.2    820.5   3,918.5



Annex 5                                            MEXICO
Page 6 of 11                     COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Components by Financiers
(USS '000)
Local
GOM           IBRD      Conmunity       Total                  (ExcL   Duties &
Amount  %   Amount %  Amount %   Amount  %   or. Exc  Taxes)   Taxes
1.AssistancetoEjidosandConimunities         1,076.4  10.5  7,858.1 76.7  1,315.1 12.8 10,249.5  43.5   391.5  8,320.6   1,537.4
2. Strengtieningthe CapacityofPrivate Providers  575.7  35.8  1,031.9 64.2   -   - 1,607.6  6.8   440.8   925.7    241.1
3.PromotionofNonTimberForestProducts          975.2  30.3  1,751.6 54.4   495.4 15.4  3,222.2  13.7    81.3  2,657.6    483.3
4. Institutional Strengthening              4,136.3  48.7  4,358.5 51.3      -   - 8,494.8  36.0  1,844.2  5,376.3   1,274.2
Total Disburment                              6,763.6  28.7 15,000.0 63.6  1,810.5  7.7 23,574.1 100.0  2,757.8 17,280.2  3,536.1



MEXICO                                                      Annex 5
COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT                                                Page 7 of 11
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
(US$ '000)
Local
GOM              IBRD         Community          Total                    (ExcL  Duties &
Amount   %       Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %   For. Exch. Taxes)   Taxes
L Investment Costs
A. Consultants
Intenational Consultants   97.7   25.0    293.2  75.0          -      -    390.9   1.7    332.3         -    58.6
LocalConsulants         1,046.9   11.5  6,726.8  74.0   1,315.1  14.5  9,088.7  38.6           -  7,725.4  1,363.3
SubtotalConsultants        1,144.6   12.1   7,020.0  74.1   1,315.1  13.9  9,479.7  40.2    332.3  7,725.4  1,421.9
B. Training
Intemationaltraining      203.8   15.0   1,154.9  85.0         -      -   1,358.7   5.8   1,154.9       -   203.8
Local training            748.2   15.0  4,239.7  85.0          -     -   4,987.9  21.2         -  4,239.7   748.2
Subtotal Training           952.0   15.0  5,394.6  85.0          -      -  6,346.6  26.9   1,154.9  4,239.7   952.0
C. Equipment                539.2   32.9   1,099.1  67.1         -      -   1,638.3   6.9   1,228.7   163.8   245.7
D. Vehicles                 209.3  100.0         -     -         -      -    209.3   0.9       41.9   136.1    31.4
E. Grants                     0.0       -   1,486.3  75.0    495.4  25.0   1,981.7   8.4          -  1,684.5   297.3
Total Investment Costs       2,845.1   14.5  15,000.0  76.3   1,810.5   9.2  19,655.6  83.4   2,757.8  13,949.5  2,948.3
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operating costs          534.2  100.0         -     -         -      -    534.2   2.3          -   454.0    80.1
B. Salaries                2,043.3  100.0        -     -         -      -   2,043.3   8.7         -  1,736.8   306.5
C. Operation and madnten
Equipment maintenance     283.4  100.0         -     -         -     -    283.4   1.2          -   240.9    42.5
D. Office supplies         1,057.6  100.0        -     -         -      -   1,057.6   4.5         -   898.9   158.6
Total Recurrent Costs        3,918.5  100.0        -     -         -      -   3,918.5  16.6         -  3,330.7   587.8
Total Disbursement           6,763.6   28.7  15,000.0  63.6   1,810.5   7.7  23,574.1  100.0   2,757.8  17,280.2  3,536.1



Annex 5                                         MEXICO
Page 8 of 11                   COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Disbursement Accounts by Financiers
(US$ '000)
Local
GOM             IBRD          Conununlty         Total                   (ExcL  Duties &
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount  %    Amount   %   For. Exch Taxes)   Taxes
A. Goods                       539.2   32.9   1,099.1   67.1        -    -   1,638.3   6.9   1,228.7   163.8   245.7
B. Consutant Services
ForCommunities               190.5    3.4  4,157.7   73.4   1,315.1  23.2   5,663.2  24.0        -  4,813.8   849.5
All Oer                    1,055.3   23.5   3,436.0   76.5        -    -  4,491.3  19.1    759.6  3,058.1   673.7
SubtotalConnstant Seria       1,245.8   12.3  7,593.7   74.8   1,315.1  13.0  10,154.6  43.1    759.6  7,871.8  1,523.2
C. Training                    850.7   15.0  4,820.9   85.0         -    -  5,671.7  24.1    727.6  4,093.3   850.7
D. Gras                          0.0      -   1,486.3   75.0    495.4  25.0   1,981.7   8.4        -  1,684.5   297.3
E. Vehicles                    209.3  100.0         -      -        -    -    209.3   0.9       41.9   136.1    31.4
F. icremental RecurffentCosts    3,918.5  100.0     -      -        -    -  3,918.5  16.6          -  3,330.7   587.8
Total                         6,763.6   28.7  15,000.0   63.6   1,810.5  7.7  23,574.1 100.0  2,757.8 17,280.2  3,536.1



MEXICO                                                           Annex 5
COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT                                                      Page 9 of 11
Local/Foreign/Taxes by Financiers
(US$ '000)
GOM                   IBRD               Conmumity                Total
Amount       %        Amount        %      Amount        %        Amount        %
1. Foreign                         290.6      10.5      2,467.3     89.5           -         -      2,757.8      11.7
IL Local (Excl. Taxes)           3,893.2      22.5     12,532.8     72.5       854.2       4.9     17,280.2     73.3
III. Taxes                       2,579.9      73.0            -        -       956.3      27.0      3,536.1     15.0
Total Project                       6,763.6      28.7     15,000.0     63.6      1,810.5      7.7     23,574.1    100.0



Annex 5                                            MEXICO
Page 10 of 11                    COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ '000)
Procurement Method
Intensational National
Competitfve Competitive National    Direct    Consulting
Bidding     Bidding   Shopping Contracting   Services   N.B.F.    Total
A. Goods /a                              654.6      783.4    200.3            -           -        -     1,638.3
(554.0)    (411.3)   (133.9)                                    (1,099.1)
B. Tedmical Assistance
1. Consultant and Studies                 -           -         -           -    11,354.2        -    11,354.2
(8,613.4)           (8,613.4)
2. Training /b                             -          -         -     4,472.1           -        -     4,472.1
(3,801.3)                       (3,801.3)
C. Grants /c                                 -           -        -      1,981.7          -        -      1,981.7
(1,486.3)                       (1,486.3)
D. Vehicles                                  -           -        -           -           -   209.3        209.3
E. ncremental Recurrent Costs                -           -        -           -           -  3,918.5     3,918.5
Total                                    654.6       783.4    200.3      6,453.8    11,354.2  4,127.8    23,574.1
(554.0)    (411.3)   (133.9)   (5,287.6)   (8,613.4)       -  (15,000.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IBRD
\a Computer equipment, field equipment, publications, and aerial photography
\b Includes direct contracting for scholarships, study tours, workshops, promotional fora.
\c Private Technical Assistance proposals (community procurement)



MEXICO                                                         Annex 5
COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT                                                  Page 11 of 11
Suggested Allocation of Proceeds
(US$ '000)
Cateeor-v                            Amounts                 Expenditures
To be FPnanced
1. Goodsa/                                         1,000.0                    70%
2. Consultant Services
(a) TAforConmnunities                           3,600.0                    100%       of amount disbursed by SEMARNAP
(b) All Other                                   3,000.0                    100%
3. Trainingb/                                      4,200.0                    100%
4. Grants                                          1,500.0                    100%      of amount disbrsed by SEMARNAP
5. Unallocated                                     1700.0
TOTAL                  15,000.0



I



Annex 6
Page 1 of 7
MEXICO
COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Flow of Funds
The purpose of this note is to describe the flow of funds for activities in the
proposed project that would require procurement arrangements that are within Bank
procurement guidelines, but that do not fall under the categories of international
competitive bidding, national competitive bidding, or shopping.
I. Grants and Scholarships
This project would include several grant and scholarship schemes: grants to
undertake pilot projects related to the collection, cultivation, and commercialization of
non-timber forest products; scholarships for community members to receive two or four
years of training in forestry; and scholarships for SEMARNAP staff to receive two years
of professional training.
Grants for Non-Timber Forest Products (NTFPs)
Objectives                To identify, promote and demonstrate the market potential
and sustainable management of potentially tradable NTFPs.
Applicant Eligibility     Only communities and ejidos in the six priority states with pine
oak forests, would be eligible to apply; communities would
only be eligible to receive assistance for one project;
communities should be legally recognised entities with clear
and unencumbered title to their forests, and should have an
approved management plan for their forests.
Proposal Eligibility      Forests with disputed ownership or user rights would be
excluded; areas subject to total protection would be excluded;
project proposals should be financially viable; each proposal
should be endorsed by the Comisariado of the community
submitting the proposal; only one project per product per state
would be financed each year, with a maximum of three projects
per product per state; consideration would be given to
potentially viable activities adjacent to protected area buffer
zones and to the domestication of overexploited species;
certain products may be excluded as a result of the studies
undertaken in each state in the first year of the project, and
will not be eligible. Rare or endangered species listed in
either the Convention on International Trade in Endangered



Annex 6
Page 2 of 7
Species of Fauna and Flora or under Mexican regulations as
listed in Norma Official Mexicana 059 would be excluded.
Expenditure Eligibility  Project proposals should not exceed US$ 20,000; grant
disbursement should not exceed two years; eligible expenditure
would be limited to tools, materials, field and packaging
equipment, temporary civil works, technical assistance and
limited inputs; labor would be excluded.
Cost Sharing             Project funding would to be limited to 75 percent of total
project costs, with the community being expected to meet the
remaining 25 percent in cash or in kind.
Review Panel             There would be a two-step review and evaluation process.
At the state level, the review panel would consist of:
SEMARNAP Delegate (Chairman);
State Forestry Secretary;
COPLADE Representative (Economist).
At the federal level, the review panel would consist of:
SEMARNAP Sub-Secretary of Natural Resources
(Chairman);
Director General Forestal;
CONABIO President.
Application Process
Continuous            As part of the promotional efforts in the project in Oaxaca,
communities would be given information about the
objectives and availability of this program. In the five other
states, staff from the SEMARNAP Delegation would travel
to communities to promote the project. Potential applicants
would be given assistance in preparing the necessary
documentation.
March 15             In Oaxaca, the applications are sorted by the Project
September 15            Implementation Unit. In other states, the applications are
sorted by the staff at the SEMARNAP delegations.
April 15           Full reports prepared by the Project Implementation Unit in
October 15            Oaxaca and by the SEMARNAP delegations will be
submitted to the state Review Panel.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 7
April 30            State Review Panel will meet and make selection. The
October 30            Comisariado will be notified immediately.
May 15             All applications approved by the State Review Panels will
November 15             be sent to the Project Management Unit in Mexico City for
review. Full reports will be prepared and submitted to the
Federal Review Panel.
June 1            Federal Review Panel will meet and make selection. The
December 1             State Review Panels and the Comisariados will be notified
immediately.
June 7            A list of successful applicants and a summary of the
December 7             projects proposed will be made available to all communities.
Flow of Funds             SEMARNAP will enter into an agreement with the selected
communities. On the basis of the agreement, SEMARNAP
will give an advance to the community for the first tranche
of expenditures as documented in the proposal. Subsequent
tranche releases will be on the basis of on-sight evaluations
of physical progress made by SEMARNAP staff. An
evaluation will be undertaken for all projects after they are
completed, and lessons learned will be disseminated.
Scholarships for Community Members
Objectives               To train indigenous foresters in sustainable forestry
management.
Applicant Eligibility    Members of indigenous communities in Oaxaca who have
satisfactorily completed their basic education (educacion
basica), who have one year's experience in community
based forestry activities, and who have been accepted at an
appropriate training institution.
Proposal Eligibility     Two years or four years of full-time professional study
related to sustainable forestry management. Proposal must
be accompanied by a letter of endorsement from the
Comisariado of the community to which the applicant
belongs.
Expenditure Eligibility  Full tuition, room and board.
Cost Sharing             All other related expenditures, including course materials
and transportation.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 7
Review Panel              SEMARNAP Delegate in Oaxaca (Chairman);
Sub-Delegate of Natural Resources;
Sub-Delegate of Planning;
President of the Escuela Tecnica Forestal de Santa Maria
Atzompa;
SEDAF Secretary.
Application Process
Continuous             As part of the promotional efforts in the project,
communities would be given information about the
availability of the scholarship program. Potential applicants
would be given assistance in preparing the necessary
documentation prior to March 15.
March 15             Applications are sorted by Project Implementation Unit in
Oaxaca. All applicants will be notified as to whether their
application will be submitted to the Review Panel.
April 15            Full reports prepared by the Project Implementation Unit in
Oaxaca will be submitted to the Review Panel.
April 30            Review Panel will meet and select applicants. Applicants
and the Comisariado will be notified immediately.
May 7             A list of successful applicants will be made available to all
communities.
Flow of Funds             SEMARNAP will enter into an agreement with the
scholarship recipient to pay the first semester tuition in
advance directly to the training institute. Tuition for the
second semester and each subsequent semester will only be
paid to the training institute upon presentation of evidence
by the scholarship recipient that each prior semester has
been satisfactorily completed. Expenditures for room and
board will be paid directly to the student each semester.
Scholarships for SEMARNAP Staff
Objectives                To upgrade the skills of professional Government staff
working on forestry issues.
Applicant Eligibility     Professional staff working in the Sub-Secretariat of Natural
Resources and at the SEMA.RNAP delegations from the six
priority states with pine-oak forests. Applicants must have



Annex 6
Page 5 of 7
successfully completed their undergraduate professional
training.
Proposal Eligibility      Two years of full-time graduate study at an institution of
higher learning in an area related to sustainable forestry
management. Proposal must follow standard format, must
include acceptance from the institution, and must be
accompanied by a letter of endorsement from the next-in-
line manager.
Expenditure Eligibility   Tuition, room and board.
Cost Sharing              All other related expenditures, including course materials
and transportation.
Review Panel              Advisory Committee of Six Directors General of
SEMARNAP, chaired by Sub-Secretary of Natural
Resources.
Application Process
February 1            A general notice will be sent to all staff in the Sub
Secretariat of Natural Resources and in the SEMARNAP
delegations in the six states announcing the eligibility
criteria and procedures, and requesting proposals by March
15.
March 15             Applications are sorted by Project Management Unit in
SEMARNAP in Mexico City. Eligible applicants will be
notified and requested to interview. Others will be notified
that their application has not been accepted.
April 15            Full reports prepared by the Project Management Unit in
SEMARNAP in Mexico City will be submitted to the
Review Panel.
April 30            Review Panel will meet and select applicants. Applicants
and their next-in-line managers will be notified immediately.
May 7             A list of successful applicants and a summary of their
proposal will be sent to all staff in the Sub Secretariat of
Natural Resources and in the SEMARNAP delegations in
the six states.
Flow of Funds             SEMARNAP will enter into a contract with the scholarship
recipient to pay the first semester tuition in advance directly
to the institution that has accepted the scholarship recipient.



Annex 6
Page 6 of 7
Tuition for the second semester will be paid to the
institution only upon presentation of evidence by the
scholarship recipient that the first semester has been
satisfactorily completed.
II. Procurement by the Community
Under the project, the communities will procure their own technical assistance
from private providers, with funding from the project. To the extent possible, the process
will be standardized to allow ease of implementation.
* Project Management Unit in SEMARNAP Mexico City prepares roster of eligible
Oaxacan, Mexican, and international private providers, standard terms of reference for
major subsets of studies expected, and standard contract. World Bank gives no
objection.
* Project Implementation Unit in SEMARNAP Oaxaca prepares list of eligible
communities.
* Project Implementation Unit in SEMvARNAP Oaxaca gives list of eligible private
providers, standard terms of reference, and standard contract to eligible communities.
* Project Implementation Unit in SEMARNAP Oaxaca sends procurement specialist to
assist communities in procurement process, including in defining needs, inviting
proposals, reviewing proposals, selecting private provider, and signing contract.
* Community decides on technical assistance needs, invites proposals from private
providers, and selects eligible private provider.
* If the terms of reference are standard, and the private provider is from the roster,
community signs a standard contract with the private provider, and submits the
contract to the Project Implementation Unit in SEMARNAP Oaxaca.
* If the terms of reference are not standard or the amount is greater than US$ 20,000, the
community must follow standard Bank procurement procedures, with the assistance of
the Project Implementation Unit in SEMARNAP Oaxaca.
* Project Implementation Unit in SEMARNAP Oaxaca reviews and approves contract
and registers it with NAFIN. World Bank gives no objection to the first ten requests.
* Private provider completes each stage of the contract. Comisariado certifies in writing
that the work has been completed to the satisfaction of the community.



Annex 6
Page 7 of 7
* Project Implementation Unit in SEMARNAP Oaxaca gives community a certificate
(liberacion de pago) to give to private provider for the part of the contract that the
community is not responsible for paying.
* Private provider submits the certificate to one of NAFIN's corresponding banks, which
then notifies NAFIN of its receipt.
* NAF1N verifies the certificate against the original contract and releases the funds to the
corresponding bank, which then releases the funds to the private provider.
* An external independent auditor carries out an ex-post review based on sampling once
a year and presents the reports to the Project Management Unit in SEMARNAP
Mexico City for inclusion in the annual report.






MEXICO                                           Annex 7
COMMUNITY FORESTY PROJECT                                       Page 1 of 11
Project Implementation Schedule
U.~~~~~~~
j  I                                                                
~~~~~mmmm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
o                                                                                                      --||||  
8 @ " ~~~~~~~~~~. ........  ||.........................................   .............   ..................................................................... ................................. ,,,,,,,... .. _
.0
~~~                                =~E  
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ 
00   i9      2                                            mE             0         0   'a
.2,  .-   N  ~~-  N N N N N N.~~N N N N N2                           N.2 La   aN   N
Xe~~~~~~~~                                              co -           z                            7E                     C                 
C~~~~~
Eii,     .2                                                             N E    N   E    S    N  N  6)                e
.L             0  E _o om v
I- I'MI~ ~ ~ ~~~    --   



Conservaci6n y manejo sustentable de recursos forestales en Mexico
Cronograma 1997
ID  Task Name                                                       Duratio   Start   Finish    Jan    Feb                                                  Aug  |ep           Oct    Nov     Dee
185      Adquisici6n de equlpo de c6mputo y oficina                   40d    2/3/97   3/28/97
186      Dise8lo del Padr6n de proveedores de servicios tecnicos      63d    2/3/97   4/30/97                                                                                                                      >
187      Diserio del programa de orienlaci6n                          41d    2/3/97   3/31/97              _                                                                                                       8
188      Impartir 3 seminarlos de orlientacl6n                        97d    612197   10/10/97                                                                            iSt
192      Diseflo de los programas de educaci6n continue               63d    2/3/97   4/30/97
193      Realizar 4 cursos de educaclon continua sabre temas forestales    57d    814197  '10117ITI
198  Promocl6n de productos forestales alternativos                  263d    1/1197   12/31/97    _
199      Contrataci6n de 7 t6cnicos (1 para DGF y 1 par estado)       23d    1/1/97   1/31/97
200      Adquisici6n de y material de oficina                         20d    2t97   2128t97
201      Elaboraci6n del diagn6stico en Michoactm, Oaxaca, Chihuahua, Jalis   96d    2/17/97   63/7__ 
202      Evaluaci6n ambiental                                         20d    1t37  II 30t7
203      Apoyos paa la elaboraci6n de 9 proyectos                     31d    113t7  1215t97
204      Auditorla financiera                                         23d 1s2t1t97  12t31t97
205      Publicaciones                                               -12d    6t97   10O31t97
208  Fortalecimlento para actividades forestales                      247d    111197   12197      _                                                                                           _
209      Contrataci6n de 5 lecnicos para la revision de programas de manejo    23d    1/1/97   1/31t97
210      Adquisici6n de equipo de campo. c6mputo y 5 vehiculos para la revisi   63d    2/3/97   4/30197
211      Estudio para la aulomatiZaci6n de programas de manejo        63d    2t3/97   4/30t97
212      Contrataci6n de 2 tecnicos de apoyo para Chihuahua, Durango Micho   23d    5/1/97    6/2/97
213      Contrataci6n de 14 estudios pars la expansi6n a otros estados  45d    9/1t97   10/31/97
214      Contrataci6n  y diseio  del Sistema  Nacional de  Informaci6n  Forestal y  196d  2/3/97  10/30/97  _-_---------                                -- ------ - ----- ----- - ----------------------- --
215      Adquisici6n e instalaci6n del equipo de c6mputo y comunicaci6n para   87d    6/4/97   11/30/97
216      Contrataci6n de un tecnico para el seguimiento en el dise8o e instala    20d    273/97   2t28/97
task                   _         _        Summary   _PRolled Up Progress2
Progress                                  Rolled Up Task
Milestone           *Rolled UpMilestone 
Page 2



Conservaci6n y manejo sustentable de recursos forestales en Mexico
Cronograma 1997
1997
ID   Task Name                                                           Duratio   Start    Finish      Jan      Feb      Mar       A r  I  May       Jun       Jul      Aug      Se       Oct       Nov      Dec
217       Contrataci6n de un t6cnico para la operaci6n del SNIF             21d     6/2/97   6/30/97
218       Diseio del Programa de capacitacl6n para servidores publicos      63d     2/3197    4/30/97
219       Impartir 8 cursos para servidores publicos                       159d    515/97    1219197                                        *        *         *                                   *        *
228       Otorgar 4 becas t6cnicas de dos anos de duraci6n                  23d     7/1/97    7/31/97
229       Realizar 5 vIajes Internacionaies para seminarios                184d    3/3197   11111197
- t,
_ H)
Task                                         Summary               _                       Rolled Up Progress
Progress                                     Rolled Up Task
Milestone                                    Rolled Up Milestone
Page 3



Conservaci6n y manejo sustentable de recursos forestales en Mexico
Cronograma 1998
1998
ID  Task Name                                                                Duration    Start      Fnish      Jan    Feb    Mar        r    May   Jun    Jul    Au         Sep    Oct    Nov    Dec
1   Unidades de coordinaci6n                                                   63d       1/1198    330/98
2       Renovaci6n de contratalo de 4 lecnicos para la Unidad de Coordinaci6n Mexic    23d  1/1/98  2/2/98                                                                                                         8/8/
3       Renovaci6n de conlralo de 10 lecnicos para la Unidad de Coordinaci6n Oaxac  23d  1/1/98     /98 98      _                                                                                                       -_
4       Adquisici6n de material de oficina y dos vehiculos                     40d       2/3/98     3/30/98
5   Asistencia tfnkca                                                         227d       713198    12116198            _                                 __
6       Elaboraci6n de material promocional                                    30d       2/3/98    316/98
7       Disiribuci6n de material promocional                                  177d      3/17/98    11/18/98
8       Evaluaclones ripidas participativas                                   125d       213/98     7127/98          I 1     II 11 11 I II II I 11 11 II 11111
84       4forosregionalespormes                                                213d      2/V98      11/26/98         1               I I    1           1            H    11111111111||
128      Otorgar recursos para la elaboracl6n de 10 programas de manejo        15id       3/2/98     9128v98
132      Otorgar recursos para la elaboraci6n de 30 estudlos de conservacl6n   1S1d      3V2/98      9/28/98
136      Otorgar recursos para la elaboracl6n delS actualizaciones de programas    16id   3/2/98     9128F98
140      Otorgar recursos para la elaboracd6n de 12 estudlos de eficiencia y merca    161d  3/2/98   9/28/98
144      Otorgar recursos para la elaboracl6n de 10 estudlos especlales        151d       3/2/98     9/28/98
148      Otorgar recursos para la elaboracd6n de 35 estudlos complementardos   lbld    3V2/98        9/28/98
152      Otorgar recursos para la elaboraci6n de 6 estudlos                    151d       32/98      9/2/98_
16      Otorgar 20 becas tecnicas y 20 de licienciatura                        21d       5/4/98     6/1/98
157      lmpartir6cursosdeimpactoambiental                                      157d      4/6/98    11/10/98                          *          *         *          *
164      Impartir cursos sobre temas forestales 20 en Oaxaca 20 reglonales     162d       5/5/98    12/16/98                                  *      *        *      *      *        *      *
173      Realizar capacitacl6n entre comunidades, 8 cursos                     164d       3/3/98    10/16/98                 *          *    *     *           *    *     *         *
182  Fortalecimlento a proveedores de serviclos ticnicos                       207d       1/1/98    10/16/98
183      Renovaci6n de contralos de 2 lecnicos para el Padr6n de proveedores de servi    23d  1(1/98  2/2/98
Task                                       Summary                                    Rolled Up Progress
Progress                                   Rolled Up Task
Milestone                                  Rolled Up Milestone
Page 1



Conservacion y manejo sustentable de recursos forestales en Mexico
Cronograma 1998
ID  Task Name                                                                Duration     Start     Finish     Jan    Feb I Mar  I Apr               Jun       Jul                 Oct |           Dec
184      Adquisio/dn de equipo de oricina                                       40d     2V3t98      3/30/98
186      Impartir 4 seminaros de orlontackin                                   141d      3V9H8      9114198
190      Realizar 8 cursos de educaciot continua                               16td      3/2/8t    10/16/9tt                *        *       *  l**                          *
199  Promocl6n de productos forea" a*tumathvos                                 24d        1/115t1    1215198
200      Renovaci6n de contratos de 7 t6cnkc*8 (1 para DGF y 1 por estado)      23d       1/1/98    2V2198
201      Adquisici6n de material de oricina                                     20d       2/3/98     3/2/98
202      Evaluacl6n ambienlal                                                   6td       9/1/98    11/30198
203      Apoyos para i2 elaboracldn de 20 proysctos                             43d       4/1/98    6/29/98
204      Audilorla financiera                                                   22d      1/16/98    12)15/98                                                                                     -
206  Fortaiecimiento pars actMvkdesforestales                                  24td       1/119tt    12/1196
206      Renovaci6n de cormratos de 5 t6cnlcos para ia revisi6n do programas de mane    23d  1/1/98  2/98
207      Adquisicidn de equipo de campo poa ia revsl6n de progranas de manso    63d       2/31
208       Renovackin de contratos de 2 tcrilcos de apoyo pars Chihuahua, Durango, M  234d  /1/98     2/98
20       Contrataci6n y dosarroilo do 21 astudWs pare la expansion a otros obd  172d      319t      10/28/8_
217       Rrenovacl6n do contrsto do? 2tecnice pars t opersci6n del SNIF yel RFN  23d     111/98     2/98        _
218      Cr n'rafaci6n de 2 consuitores pars el mantanimiento de SNIF y t RFN   23d       1/1/98     2298
213       ipatir 8 curses prs servldors pObicos                                207d       31211t    1211t;11
224      Olorgar 4 becas nicas de dos alis de dunad6n                           20d       2/2/6      2/26198
226      Roeua r  vleW  Intnraciana rs p _arbs aeeios                          1114d      31196     11/113/981*1*
Tasit                                      Summary                                    Rolled Up Progiress
Progrress                                  Rollea Up Task
Milestone           *RolledoUp Milestone 
Page 2



Conservaci6n y manejo sustentable de recursos forestales en Mexico
Cronograma 1999
1999
ID   Task Name                                                                             Duration     Start      Finish     Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr   May   Jun   Jul   Aug   Se    Oct   Nov   Dec
I   Unidades de coordinacl6n                                                                 63d       1/1199     3/30/99                                                                                              I>
2        Renovaci6n de contratato de 4 tenicos para la Unidad de Coordinaci6n Mexico        23d       1i1199     2/2/99                                                                                              70  i
0 4m
3        Renovaci6n de contrato de 10 lecnicos para la Unidad de Coordinaci6n Oaxaca         23d       1/1/99      2/2/99                                                                                              0   4
4       Adquisici6n de material de oricina                                                   40d       2/3/99     3/30/99                      i
5   Asistencla tecnica                                                                      227d       2131S9     12/16199
6        Elaboraci6n de material promocional                                                 30d                  3/16/99
7        Distribuci6n de material promocional                                                177d      3/17/99    11/18/99
8       4 fros reglonales por mes                                                           213d       2/3/99     11/26199
52       Otorgar recursos para Ia elaboracl6n de 10 programas de manejo                      151d       312/99    9/28/99
56       Otorgar recursos pars Ia elaboracl6n de 30 estudlos de conservacl6n                 161d       3/99       9/2tU99
60       Otorgar recursos para la elaboracl6n de16 actualizaclones de programas de manepo    161d       3/2/99     9/28/99
64       Otorgar recursos para la elaboracl6n de 12 estudlos de eficlencla y mercado        11d        312199     9/28/99
68       Otorgar recursos para Ia elaboracl6n de 10 estudlos especlales                      161d       3/V99      MOM
72       Otorgar recursos para Ia elaboracl6n de 35 estudlos complementarlos                 5i1d       3/2/99     9/28/99
76       Otorgar recursos para Is elaboraci6n de 6 estudlos de lnvestlgacl6n                 161d       3/1        9/28/
80       Otorgar 20 becas t6cnicas                                                            21d       5/4199     6/1/99
81       Impartir 2 cursos de impacto ambiental                                               77d 3t1/99           611 SW
84       Impartir cursos sobre temas forestales 20 en Oaxaca 20 reglonales                   162d       5/5/99    12/16/99
93       Realizar capacitacl6n entre comunidades, 8 cursos                                   164d       3/399     10/189
102  Fortaleclmlento a proveedores de serviclos t6cnicos                                      206d      1/1/99     10/15/99
103       Renovaci6n de contratos de 2 tlcnicos para el Padr6n de proveedores de servicios t6cnicos  23d  1/1/99    2/2/99
104      Adquisici6n de equipo de c6mpulo y material de oficina                               40d       2/3199     3/30/99
Task                                        Summary                                    Rolled Up Progress
Progress                                    Rolled Up Task
Milestone                                   Rolled Up Milestone 0
Page 1



Conservaci6n y manejo sustentable de recursos forestales en M6xico
Cronograma 1999
1999
ID  Task Name                                                                            Duration     Start      Finish    Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr   May   Jun   Jul   Aug   Sep   Oct   Nov   Dec
106      Impartir 2 seminarlos de orientaci6n                                               56d       311/99     6114/99
108      Realizar 8 cursos de educacl6n continua                                            165d      3/1199    10115/99               *       3     *      *     *     *       *     *
117  Promocl6n de productosforestales alternativos                                          249d      1/1/99    12/11_99
118      Renovacion de contratos de 7tecnicos (1 para DGFy 1 porestado)                     23d       1/1/99     2/2/99
119      Adquisici6n de material de oficina                                                 20d       2/3/99     312/99
120      Evaluaci6n ambiental                                                               65d       9/1/99    11/30/99
121      Apoyos para la elaboracion de 20 proyectos                                         43d       4/1/99     5/31/99
122      AudNtoria financiera                                                               22d      11/16/99    12/15/99
123      Evaluaci6n por estado                                                              21d       10/1/99    10/29/99                                                              -
124      Publicaciones                                                                      85d       6/7/99     1611/99                                                        -
127  Fortaleclmiento pars actividades forestales                                            249d      1/1/99    12/16/99
128      Renovaci6n de contratos de 5 t6cnicos para la revision de programas de manejo an la delega  23d  1/1/99  2/2/99
129      Adquisici6n de equipo de campo para is revisl6n de programas de manepo             63d       2/3/99     4/30199
130      Renovaci6n de contratos de 2 tecnkcos do apoyo para Chihuahua. Durango, kichoacin, Jalis    23d  1/1/99  2/2/99
131      Renovaci6n dot contrato de 2 t6cnicos para Ia operaci6n del SNIF y el RFN          23d       1/1/99      2//992
132      Contrataci6n de 2 consuitores para el mantenimionto det SNIF y el RFN              23d       1/1/99      22/99      _
133      Impartlr 8 cursos para servidores pobticos                                         207d      3/2/99     12/16199
138       torgar 4 becas tecnicas do dos stlos de duraci6n                                  20d       2/2/99      31/99l
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- .
13       Reaizr 6vlais I    _oonaspass nr"_ons                                             1'4       3"         IW"11161  | 
O -X
Task                   _         _         Summary                     _Rolledi Up Progress
Progress                                  Rolleri Up Task         _
Milestone           *Rolled Up Milestone O
Page-2
Page 2



Conservaci6n y manejo sustentable de recursos forestales en Mexico
Cronograma 2000
2000
ID  Task Name                                                                              Duration     Start      Finish     Jan   Feb | Mar |Apr   May   Jun     Jul   Au    Se    oct   Nov   Dec
1   Unidades de coordinacion                                                                 63d       1/3100     3/29100
2 _ Renovacj6n de coniratato de 4 iecnicos para Ia Unidad de Coordinacirin M6sico            23(1      1/3/00      2/2/00
2       Renovaci6n de contratato de 4 tecnicos para la Unidad de Coordinaci6n Mexico         23d       1/3/00      2/2/00     i                                                                                       0  i
3       Renovaci6n de contrato de 10 tecnicos para la Unidad de Coordinaci6n Oaxaca          23d       1/3/00      2/2/00      _                                                                                      O _
4       Adquisici6n de equipo de c6mputo y material de oficina                               40d       2/3/00     3/29o10
5   Asistencia t4cnica                                                                      227d       2/3/00    12/15/00
6       Elaboraci6n de material promocional                                                  30d       2/3/00     3/15/00
7       Distribuci6n de material promocional                                                177d      3/16/00    11/17/00
8       4 foros regionales por mes                                                          213d       2/3100    11/27100
62       Otorgar recursos para la elaboracl6n de 10 programas de manejo                      161d      3/11/00    9/27/00
56       Otorgar recursos para la elaboraci6n de 30 programas de conservaci6n                151d      3/11/00    9/27/00
60       Otorgar recursos para la elaboracl6n del6 actualizaciones de programas de manejo    161d      3/11/00     9/27/00
54       Otorgar recursos para ia elaboraci6n de 12 estudlos de eficiencia y mercado         151d      3/11/00     9/27/00
68       Otorgar recursos para la elaboraci6n de 10 estudlos especiales                      151d      311/00      9/27/00
72       Otorgar recursos para la elaborackin de 36 estudlos complementarlos                 151d      3/1/00      9/27/00
76       Otorgar recursos para la elaboracl6n de 6 estudios de investigacl6n                 151d      3/1100      9/27/00
80       Otorgar 20 becas tecnicas                                                            21d       5/2/00     5/30/00
81       Impartir 2 cursos de impacto ambiental                                               77d      2/29/00     6/14/00
84       impartir cursos sobre temas forestales 20 en Oaxaca 20 regionales                   162d       5/4/00     12/15/00
93       Realizar capacitaci6n entre comunidades, 8 cursos                                   164d       3/2/00    10/17/00               *       *                   I
102  Fortalecimiento a proveedores de servicios t4cnicos                                      205d      1/3/00     10/13/00
103      Renovaci6n de coniratos de 2 tecnicos para el Padr6n de proveedores de servicios tecnicos  23d  1/3/00     2/2/00
104      Adquisici6n de material de  fcins                                                    40d       2/3/00      /29/00
Task                                       Summary                                     Rolled Up Progress
Progress                                   Rolled Up Task
Milestone                                  Rolled Up Milestone   >
Page 1



Conservacion y manejo sustentable de recursos forestales en Mexico
Cronograma 2000
~~~~~~~~~2000
ID  Task Name                                                                              Durn         Star       Finish    Jan   Feb   Mar   A r   Ma    Jun   Jul   Au    Se    oct   Nov   Dec
106      Impartir 1 seminario de orientaci6n                                                  10d       3/6100     3v17/00
107       Reallzar 8 cursos de educaci6n continua                                             160d      3/6/00     10/13/00  
116  Promoci6n deproductosforestales aftemativos                                             249d       1/3100     12/14/00
117      Renovaci6n de contratos de 7 tecnicos (1 para DGF y 1 por estado)                    23d       1/3/00     2/2/00
118       Adquisici6n de material de oficins                                                  20d       2/3/00      3/1/00
119      Evaluaci6n ambiental                                                                 65d      8/31/00    11/29/00
120      Apoyos para la elaboraci6n de 20 proyectos                                           43d      3/31/00     5/30100
121      Auditoria financiera                                                                 22d      11/15/00    12/14/0
122  Fortalecimnento para actividades torestales                                              249d      1/3/00     12/14100
123       Renovaci6n de conlratos de 5 tecnicos para la revisi6n de programas de manejo en la delega  23d  1/3/00   2/2/00      _
124       Adquisici6n de equipo de campo, c6mputo y material de oficina para la revisi6n de programas    63d  2/3/00  5/1/00
126       Renovaci6n de contralos de 2 tecnicos de apoyo para Chihuahua, Durango, Michoacdn, Jalis    23d  1/3/00   2/2/00      _
126       Renovaci6n del contrato de 2 tecnicos para la operaci6n del SNIF y el RFN           23d        1/3/00     2/00
127       Renovaci6n del conlrato de 2 consultores para el mantenimiento del SNIF y el RFN    23d        1/3/00     2/2/00      _
128      Impartir 8 cursos para servidores pubilcos                                           207d      3/1/00     12/14/00
133       Otorgar 4 becas tecnicas de dos ailos de duraci6n                                    21d       7/3vO0     7/31/00
134       Realizar 6 vlales Internacionales para seminarlos                                   184d       3/2/       11/14/
140                                                                                            1 d    |             103M)
|Taske_ Sulmmary                                                        Flolled Up Progress 
Progress                                    Rolled Up Task
Milestone            *Rolled Up Milestone 
Page 2



Conservaci6n y manejo sustentable de recursos forestales en Mexico
Cronograma 2001
2001
ID  Task Name                                                                            Duration     Start      Fnish            Feb                          un    Jul   Au    Se    Oct   Nov   Dec
I   Unidades de coordinacl6n                                                               63d       1/1/01     3/28)01                                                                                                   >
2       Renovacl6n de contratato de 4 tecnicos para la Unidad de Coordinaci6n Mexico       23d       1/1/01     1/31/01     _                                                                                             t 
3       Renovaci6n de contrato de 10 tecnicos para la Unidad de Coordinaci6n Oaxaca        23d       1/1/01     1/31/01     _                                                                                         O _
4       Adqutslcl6n de matenal de oficina                                                  40d       2/1/01     3/28/01
S   Asistencia t4cnica                                                                    227d      2V1/01     12V14/01
6        Elaboraci6n de material,promocional                                               30d       211/01     3/14/01
7       Distribuci6n de material promocional                                              177d      3/15/01    11/16/01
8       4 toros regionales por mes                                                        213d        11/01     11/26/01
52       Otorgar recursos para la elaboracl6n de 10 programas de manejo                    161d    2V28/01       9/26101
66       Otorgar recursos para la elaboracl6n de 30 programas de conservackdn              1I5d      2/28)01     9/26/01
S0       Otorgar recursos para la elaboraci6n delS actualizaci6n de programas de manejo    161d      228/01      9/26/01
64       Otorgar recursos para la elaboracl6n de 12 estudlos de eficiencis y mercado       151d      228/01      9/26/01
68       Otorgar recursos para la elaboracd6n de 10 estudlos especiales                    161d      228/01      9/26/01
72       Otorgar recursos para la elaboracl6n de 36 estudlos complementarlos               151d      2/801       9/26/01
76       Otorgar recursms para la elaboraci6n de 6 estudios de investigaci6n               152d       5/3/01    11/30/01                                                     -
80       Impartir 2 cursos de impacto ambiental                                             77d      2/27/01     6t13/01
83       Impartir cLrsos sobre temas forestales 20 en Oaxaca 20 regionales                 162d       613/01    12/14/01                              *      *       *     **
92       Realizar capacitaci6n entre comunidades. 8 cursos                                 164d       V11/01    10/16v01               *       *      *     *       *      *      *       *
101  Fortalecimiento a proveedores de serviclos tcnicos                                    206d       1/1/01     10/12/01
102       Renovaci6n de contratos de 2 t6cnicos para el Padr6n de proveedores de servicios tecnico  23d  1/1/01  1/31/01
103      Adquisici6n de material de oficina                                                 40d       2/1/01     3/28/01
104      Impadir 1 seminaro do orientacic                                                   10d       3/5/01     3/16/01
Task                                        Summary                                    Rolled Up Progress
Progress                                    Rolled Up Task
Milestone                                   Rolled Up Milestone <
Page 1



Conservaci6n y manejo sustentable de recursos forestales en Mexico
Cronograma 2001
2001
ID  Task Name                                                                            Duration     Start      Finish            Feb   Mtar   Apr I May I Jun |Jul  Aug I Sep I Oct I Nov  Dec
106      Realizar 8 cursos de educacl6n continua                                           1SOd       VUt101     10/12101                *    *        *     *     *        *      *    *
11S  Promoct6n de productos forestales aftemativos                                          2498      111=01     12113101
116      Renovaci6n de contratos de 7 tecnicos (1 para DOGF y 1 por estado)                 23d       1/1101     1/31/01
117      Adquisicifn de material de oricina                                                 20d       2/1/01     2/28101
118      Evaluacl6n ambiental                                                               65d       S130/01    11128/01                                                                  -
119      Apoyos para la elaboraci6n de 20 proyectos                                         43d       3/30/01    6/29/01
120      Auditoria tinanciera                                                               22d      11/14/01    12/13/01                                                                            -
121      Evaluaci6n por estado                                                              21d      10/1/01     10/29/01                                                                  -
122  Fortalecimlento para actividades forestales                                           248d       1/1101     12/131011
123      Renovaci6n de contratos de 5 tecnicos para la revisi6n de programas de manejo en la dole    23d  1/1/1)  1/31/01
124      Adquisici6n de equipo de campo, c6mputoy material de oficina para la revisi6n de program  63d  2/1/01   4/30/01
125      Renovaci6n de contratos de 2 tecnicos de apoyo para Chihuahua, Durango. Michoacan, Jal    23d  1/1/01   1/31/01
126       Renovaci6n del contrato de 2 t6cnicos para 1a operaci6n del SNIF y el RFN         23d       1/1/01     1/31/01
127       Renovaci6n del contrato de 2 consuttores para el mantenimiento del SNIF y el RFN  23d       1/1/01     1/31/01
128       Impartir 4 cursos para servidores publicos                                       207d      2/28/01     12113101
133       Reailzar 5 vlajes lntemacionales para seminarls                                  1848       311101     1111m101
to
--,t
Task                    _         _         SUmmary                      _Rolled Up Progress5a
Progress                                    RollerJ Up Task _
Milestone            *Rolled Up Milestone 
Page 2






Annex 8
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO
COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
1.    This project is piloting several innovative activities in the forestry sector in
Mexico, including demand driven technical assistance and training and grant based non-
timber forest product management. If successful, the project would be replicated in other
priority states with pine-oak forests. Therefore systematic and accurate reporting and
active monitoring is essential to track project performance and make adjustments to
project implementation.
2.    Six indicators have been selected against which successful implementation would
be measured: (a) annual budgetary allocation; (b) increased forest area under improved
management; (c) hectares under conservation by communities; (d) number of private
providers in the project roster; (e) number of non-timber forest products successfully
implemented; and (f) percentage of management plans reviewed within the legally
mandated 30 day limit.
3.    The Project Management Unit in SEMARNAP in Mexico City would have primary
responsibility for project supervision, monitoring and evaluation. It would be responsible
for guiding project implementation through annual planning, budgeting, and reporting.
Each agency would have the responsibility of monitoring the activities within their
mandate, and reporting to the Project Management Unit in SEMARNAP in Mexico City
on a quarterly basis. The Project Management Unit in SEMARNAP in Mexico City
would consolidate and distribute internal quarterly reports measuring progress against
indicators, and would prepare an annual Project Implementation Report. Based on this
Project Implementation Report, the Project Management Unit in SEMARNAP in Mexico
City would prepare an Annual Operating Plan and Implementation Schedule, which would
be discussed and agreed with the Bank.
4.    In order to permit effective monitoring of the environment within which the project
operates, the Project Management Unit in SEMARNAP in Mexico City would supervise
two studies: the first would consist of periodic surveys of deforestation in Oaxaca, aided
by aerial photography; and the second would consist of periodic surveys of forestry-
related community income in Oaxaca.
5.    The internal quarterly reports, which would be made available to Bank supervision
missions as requested, would focus on evaluations of progress against the attached
implementation indicators agreed to in the Annual Operating Plan. They are designed to
be used by the Government as an effective tool for project monitoring.



Annex 8
Page 2 of 4
6.    The Annual Project Implementation Report, and Annual Operating Plan and
Implementation Schedule, would be prepared according to the following outline:
Project Implementation Report
A. General Status of Project
1. Highlights
2. Adherence to Annual Operating Plan and Implementation Schedule
3. Development Impact to Date
4. Detailed Status of Each Component
5. Status of Recommended Actions from Previous Report
B. Project Administration
1. Fund Flows and Government Budget
2. Disbursements
3. Procurement Experience in Relation to Procurement Plan
4. Financial Reporting (accounts and audits)
C. Organization and Management
1. General Monitoring and Evaluation
2. Coordination Among Project Agencies
D. Problems and Recommended Actions
E. Tables of Key Input, Output, Outcome and Impact Indicators
F. Table of Financial Indicators
G. Table of Disbursements
H. Table of World Bank Loan Legal Covenants
Operating Plan and Implementation Schedule
A. Summary of Project Status
1. Description of Project Components
2. Summary of Project Status
3. Adherence to Annual Operating Plan and Implementation Schedule
B. Objectives For the Year
C. Proposed Activities, and For Each:
1. Objectives
2. Inputs and Outputs
3. Indicators
4. Schedule
5. Costs
6. Implementing Agency
7. For Consultant Contracts, Terms of Reference, Model Contract, Letter of Invitation,
Short List
D. Summary Costs and Budgetary Allocation
E. Table of Key Input, Output, Outcome and Impact Indicators
F. Implementation Schedule
G. Procurement Plan



PERFORMANCE MONITORING INDICATORS
COMPONENT                                   1997                 1998                 1999                  2000                 2001
Target    Actual    Target    Actual    Target    Actual    Target    Actual    Target    Actual
1. Assistance to Communities and Ejidos
Input Indicators
- Annual Budgetary Allocation a/                             1,365                 2,145                2,291                2,335                 2,113
Output Indicators
- Number of private provider contracts with communities         50                   80                   100                  100                  100
- Number of training held                                       20                   40                    40                   40                   40
- Number of scholarships awarded (2 yr.)                        20                   20                    20                   20                     0
- Number of scholarships awarded (4 yr.)                        20                   20                     0                    0                    0
- Number of PRA                                                 60                   60                    20                    0                     0
- Number of community to community seminars held                 8                    8                     8                    8                     8
- Number of regional fora                                       30                   40                    40                   40                   40
Outcome Indicators
- Number of management plans completed                          10                   18                    25                   25                   25
- Number of new and updated conservation studies completed      12                   20                   25                    25                   25
- Number of other studies completed                            28                    42                   50                    50                   50
- Research projects initiated                                   5                     5                    5                     5                    5
- Number of communities participating in the project            50                   100                  200                  200                   200
- Number of communities attending regional fora                 50                   80                   120                  120                   120
- Number of indiv. attending training courses                  300                  600                   600                  600                  600
- Number of scholarships completed                               0                   14                    14                   28                    28
- Number of attendees at community to community seminars       340                  340                   340                  340                   340
Impact Indicators
- Increased forest area under improved management           60,000               140,000              265,000              390,000               515,000
- Ha. under conservation                                     5,000                14,000               26,500               39,000                51,500
- FSC Green Stamp awarded to communities in project              0                    0                     1                    2                     4
- Improved/increased # of products/benefits from forest areas
2. Support to Technical Assistance Providers
Input Indicators
- Annual Budgetary Allocation a/                               277                  342                   332                  329                  328
Output Indicators
- Number of immersion programs held                              3                    4                     2                    1                     1              St
-Number oftraining modules held                                  4                    8                     8                    8                     8              9 Q
Outcome Indicators                                                                                                                                 CD g
- Number of providers in the padron                             50                  100                   150                  170                   190              o  9
- Number of private providers attending training modules       100                  200                   300                  340                  380
Impact Indicators
- Professional specialties offering services to forestry
communities and ejidos                                         2,                    3                    4                     5           1        6



PERFORMANCE MONITORING INDICATORS
COMPONENT                                    1997                  1998                   1999                 2000                  2001             I  >
Target    Actual    Target    Actual    Target    Actual    Target    Actual    Target    Actual               '  3
3. Non-Timber Forest Products
Input Indicators
- Counterpart Staff                                                6                     6                     6                     6                     6
- Annual Budgetary Allocation a/                                 577                   607                   682                   639                   717
Output Indicators
- Number of Grants awarded to finance NTFP projects               10                    20                    20                    20                    20
- Number of supervisory visits to Grant recipients                10                    30                    40                    40                    40
- Number of evaluation and completion reports prepared             0                    10                    20                    20                    20
Outcome Indicators
- Projects succesfully implemented                                 0                     7                    15                    15                    15
Impact Indicators
- New NTFP products generated from community forest land           0                     0                     0                     0                     5
- Increases in community income from NTFP
4. Institutional Strengthening
Input Indicators
- Annual Budgetary Allocation a/                               2,767                 1,616                  1,360                 1,416                 1,332
Output Indicators
- Number of staff reviewing management plans in Oaxaca             9                     9                     9                     9                     9
- Number of state delegations receiving assistance                 5                     5                     5                     5                     5
- Number of monitoring staff in Mexico City                        4                     4                     4                     4                     4
- Number of implementation staff in Oaxaca                        10                    10                    10                    10                    10
- Number of administration training courses                        8                     8                     8                     8                     8
- Number of scholarships awarded (2 yrs.)                          4                     4                     4                     4                     0
-Number of study tours                                             5                     5                     5                     5                     5
- Number of staff receiving training                             160                   160                   160                   160                   160
Outcome Indicators
- % Management Plans reviewed within 30 days                      60                    70                    80                    90                   100
- Number of state delegations with access to SNIF                 10                    20                    32                    32                    32
- Number of other organizations accesing SNIF                      0                    10                    20                    30                    30
Impact Indicators
- Stronger and more efficient institutions
- Successful project implementation
a/ In US$thousands.



Annex 9
Page 1 of 6
MEXICO
COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Social Assessment and Participation Plan
Objectives and Scope
1.    Project preparation has included a process of social assessment and preparation of
a participation plan, with special emphasis on indigenous development given that more
than 90 percent of the targeted project beneficiaries belong to indigenous ethnicities. The
social assessment includes five stages or elements: (a) a country-level sector analysis for
which social issues comprised a significant part of the work/program (Gray Cover
"Resource Conservation and Forestry Sector Review," Report No. 13114-ME) and the
state of Oaxaca was a case-study site; (b) an indigenous peoples development assessment
by a renowned Mexican anthropologist resident in Oaxaca; (c) the recommendations made
by 40 indigenous forest ejidos and communities in three ejido-to-ejido training workshops
on forestry financed through an Institutional Development Fund Grant; (d) focus group
interviews with indigenous forest owners, industrialists, federal and state government
forest officials, and private forest technicians; and (e) a series of regional consultations
with indigenous ejidos and communities during the pre- evaluation phase. The process
aims to: (a) identify social issues important for project design, including the choice of
institutional arrangements; (b) collect information regarding felt needs of the target
population; (c) identify potential negative social aspects and design mitigating measures to
address those impacts; and (d) initiate the process of participation that will be continued
during project implementation.
A Profile of Project Beneficiaries
2.    The project area is coterminous with the temperate forest areas of Oaxaca--
concentrated in the Sierra Norte, Sierra Juarez, Sierra del Sur, and parts of the central
valleys. There are between 1300 and 1500 ejidos and indigenous communities in Oaxaca,
of which an estimated 40 percent have temperate forest holdings within their boundaries.
Estimates are that ejidos total between 700 and 730 and communities between 570 and
750 in number. About 280 ejidos and communities are estimated to have significant
temperate and tropical forest holdings large enough to warrant commercial exploitation.
The majority of the population (eight ejidos and 228 communities) with temperate forests
are indigenous and include six of the sixteen indigenous ethnicity's of Oaxaca, namely the
Zapoteca, Mixteca, Nahuatl, Cuicateco, Chinanteca, and Mixe. A significant number of
the indigenous population are bilingual speakers of their own language and Spanish,
although some communities no longer use their language of origin. Because of the
mountainous terrain and limited road networks, some communities are physically isolated
and speak distinct dialects that are not readily understood by members of the same ethnic
group form other parts of the region. There is a significant degree of poverty and
marginality in the municipalities covered by the project.



Annex 9
Page 2 of 6
3.    Political Systems and Local Government. The indigenous groups have
maintained their traditional political structures to a large extent. The indigenous
communities elect leaders known as Comisariados de Bienes Comunales for a period
ranging from one to three years. The communities and ejidos are grouped into 570
municipalities state-wide, some with as few as three communities or ejidos and presided by
municipal presidents. Oaxaca underwent municipal elections in November, 1995, and
municipal presidents took office in January 1996. In addition to the elected officials, each
community has indigenous religious and cultural leaders who are consulted according to
traditions of individual ethnic groups. There is a significant migration from Zapoteca and
Mixteca to urban centers and the United States, but community members (comuneros) can
retain their voting rights.
Patterns of Forest Management and Organization for Production
4.    There is a wide range of community organization for forestry management and
production in the temperate forest areas of the state. There are four categories of forest
organizations, based on patterns of forest production: (a) communities that do not have
management plans; (b) communities with management plans who do not sell wood; (c)
communities with management plans who only sell stumpage; and (d) communities that
have some industrial capacity. Some of these latter communities are organized into unions
for technical assistance and marketing. These categories are filtered through social
characteristics of the communities. Indigenous ejidos and communities place a high value
on gaining social as well as economic benefits from their forest management. This has
had both positive and negative impacts on organizational efforts. Traditionally,
communities make decisions in highly democratic fashion and there is a frequent change of
elected leadership to encourage greater rotation of leadership positions. This can be a
strength of community forestry, but can also lead to a lack of professionalism in forest
resource management, if there is too much rotation of comuneros responsible for
managing the community forestry enterprise. The most developed forest communities
have sent community youth to be trained in forestry, to return to provide technical services
to their community.
5.    Social goals are important to many indigenous ejidos. Unlike non-indigenous
forest ejidos, indigenous ejidos and communities assign a significant part of the earnings
from timber sales to finance social goods, such as schools, feeder roads, health centers,
and water supply. There is a range of variation in the importance placed on these goals by
different communities. In general, these goals take precedence over long-term investment
in the forestry enterprise. Some communities are reluctant to exploit their forest resources
for fear of causing ecological damage (seen in a somewhat spiritual sense) and/or for fear
of creating social conflicts due to the inability to allocate the earnings in an equitable and
socially-acceptable way. Rotation of forestry enterprise workers is one mechanism used
by communities who exploit their forests as a way of equitably distributing opportunities
created by forestry, even when it is recognized that this limits professional development.



Annex 9
Page 3 of 6
6.    Cultural values include traditional identification with a number of sacred and
cultural heritage sites within the forested areas. In the case of communities with forest
management plans, under the revisions to the agrarian reform law made in the late 1980s,
communities' cultural sovereignty has been recognized to a greater extent in the country.
Expression of this is found in the communal statutes, formal expressions of communal
customary laws and traditions. In Oaxaca, communities that have prepared such statutes
have included descriptions of their cultural values towards natural resources, descriptions
of land tenure boundaries and rights, and descriptions of their management plans for their
forest resource base. This can be a valuable record for ensuring that community cultural
values are upheld in forest management plans and to formally protect a community's right
to allocate resojirces according to the decisions of traditionally selected leaders, rather
than those elected through the formal political process or appointed by the government.
Key Issues for Project Design
7.    Indigenous Cultural Values and Forest Management  Forest management
plans are designed to promote integrated forest management which is culturally
appropriate to local social and cultural values. The studies to be financed under the
project will include an integrated approach, including the identification and preservation of
cultural sites. Training courses will also include attention to cultural issues in forest
management in both courses for the communities and courses for private providers. In the
course curriculum designed for scholarship courses to be given to indigenous community
members in Oaxaca, this topic will be explored and integrated.
8.    Indigenous Institutions and Forestry/Conservation  If forestry ejidos and
communities are to advance in the levels of control over resource management decisions
and efficiency of forestry enterprises, there will need to be considerable trust created in the
management of the technical assistance and training component and adequate participation
by indigenous leaders and forest managers. There is a strong perception by indigenous
groups in Oaxaca that government and some non-governmental organizations providing
technical support are paternalistic and undervalue the indigenous world view and cultural
system. This is a real barrier to the ability of the project to introduce a forest culture to a
significant number of communities.
9.    Increases in forest income and efficiency and sophistication of the forestry
enterprise also result in significant changes in community life that require a social
adaptation. While many communities seek these changes, they also recognize that there
will be some painful adjustments required. Training and promotional staff of the project
must be aware of this process and seek measures to make the transition easier. It should
also be expected that there will be serious resistance to these changes in some
communities and that progress towards a highly productive enterprise is unlikely to be
without lapses or backtracking. Communities with their own technical service providers
have an advantage in that they are more likely to recognize these dynamics and help
community leaders to find solutions. Training of non-indigenous, private providers would



Annex 9
Page 4 of 6
also benefit from modules that make them more aware of and respectful of these
dynamics.
10.   Land Tenure and Boundary Conflicts  The land reform process in Mexico
divided agricultural lands into private, ejido, and indigenous community holdings. Ejidos
are land reform blocks which include groups of farmers, their individual agricultural
parcels, and common grazing and forest lands and residential infrastructure. Communities
are extensions of terrain traditionally used by specific indigenous populations, which have
their own system of internal government. In 1992, the Government introduced reforms to
the Agrarian Law and references to it in Article 27 of the National Constitution. As an
incentive for greater investment in ejido lands and to land security, the opportunity was
created for ejidos to privatize and request titles to individual parcels or, alternately, to
regularize the boundaries of the ejido and of the individual parcels within the ejido.
Indigenous communities were given the opportunity to convert to ejidos and indigenous
ejidos were given the option of converting to communities. A program of technical
assistance for the regularization process for ejidos was created in 1993 called Programa
de Certificacion de Derechos Ejidalesy Titulacion de Solares Urbanos (PROCEDE).
Under this program, the Procuraduria Agraria initiated a program of legal assistance in
cooperation with the other land agencies, the Ministry of Land Reform (SRA), the
National Registry (RAN), and the National Statistics and Geographic Institute (INEGI).
Overall, the program has been more active in productive agricultural areas and peri-urban
areas, than in the more marginal and remote forested areas.
11.   PROCEDE has been initiated in the majority of ejidos in Oaxaca. At present, 115
of the ejidos that have entered into the process of regularization are stuck in various stages
due to the presence of unresolvable boundary conflicts. There are 350 cases of registered
boundary conflicts within ejidos, and between ejidos and communities. Of the 1 17
communities and ejidos for which PROCEDE data exist, 52 percent have some form of
conflict and 8 percent lack clear documentation of their land rights (rezago agraria). In
most cases boundary conflicts do not affect forest exploitation as management plans
simply exclude those areas in conflict. These conflicts only affect forest enterprises should
the community seek to access formal credit to capitalize their industry or to enter a joint
venture where the bank or investor want land security.
12.  In consultations with the land agencies involved in PROCEDE, particularly in
dialogues with the anthropologist director of the Ministry of Land Reform, and the
director and the staff of the office of the Procuraduria Agraria in Oaxaca, the
recommendation has been made that the project include training activities that help forest
ejidos and communities with conflicts to resolve them. Given the complicated legal nature
of many of the disputes, the PROCEDE agencies have recommended against including any
informal conciliation process in the technical assistance component. Instead, they have
identified the need for a basic level of training to ejidos and communities which informs
them about the process of legal adjudication and provides them with detailed information
about the different steps in the process of regularization where conflicts are involved. The



Annex 9
Page 5 of 6
possibility of extending a pilot training program, which has been tested elsewhere in
Mexico, to the state of Oaxaca is being evaluated.
Participation in Project Planning and Implementation
13.   The project has been designed to address the felt needs of the indigenous forest
ejidos and communities in Oaxaca as well as provide a model for expansion to other states
with indigenous and non-indigenous community and ejido forest owners. Oaxaca was
chosen as a site for the pilot because of the interest of target beneficiaries and state
government in forestry development and resource management and because it was the
most promising state included in the cases analyzed in the sector review, in terms of the
degree of organization of forest ejidos and communities. The project is a technical
assistance project which is designed on the premise that there are a significant number of
forest ejidos and communities that can take control of the conservation and development
of their natural resource base, leading to better resource management and greater
generation of income from forestry and conservation activities. The project plans to pilot
a series of mechanisms for technical assistance and training that were identified during the
sector reviews as beneficial to communal forestry. It is expected that, as technical
assistance experience is gained and as community enterprises evolve, communities in
Oaxaca will be able to absorb more diverse technical assistance for development of more
sophisticated and higher-value forest enterprises.
Ejido to Ejido/Community to Community Seminars
14.   In FY95, the Bank financed an IDF grant for ejido-to-ejido training by indigenous
forest ejidos, which was administered through NAFIN. In two workshops, indigenous
forest owners attended courses at two of the more successful ejidos which included
modules in which participants outlined development strategies and areas requiring
technical assistance and financial support. These workshops were followed by a third
evaluation workshop in which participants proposed that regional training networks be
established and funds made available to indigenous ejidos and communities for continued
training. A second IDF is under preparation which is intended to help the ejidos and
communities set up the proposed networks and these regional ejido-to-ejido training
methods. The project includes ejido to ejido training within the training component. This
activity is planned on a national level, given the strong interest expressed by indigenous
ejidos and communities during the first IDF and through other forest networks, and the
strong capacity demonstrated by the groups to manage their own training process. SHCP
has expressed interest in continuing to channel such resources through NAFIN.
Other Training Initiatives
15.  In addition to the above-mentioned training, the project would include short and
long-term training for ejido and community members. Short term training would attempt
to inform a broad base of community members about the range and quality of technical
services that they should be able to utilize for forest management plan preparation and



Annex 9
Page 6 of 6
forest management and extraction decisions. In addition, short-term training would
transfer administrative and accounting skills which are key to a community or ejido's
ability to manage a forestry enterprise and maximize its returns. Scholarships would be
provided for long-term training of community and ejido members in Oaxaca. While it
would not be appropriate for the project to finance the development of curricula at the
forestry school in Oaxaca, the government is exploring possible development of a
curriculum more geared to the needs of the indigenous students.
Regional Fora
16.   The project will include the development of regional fora in the five or six
subregions of the project area. These fora will provide an opportunity for communities to
meet collectively to discuss project issues and opportunities, a space for learning about
technical assistance and training options, and a space to exchange opinions about the
progress of the project and to channel information about their interests and needs to
project staff Initially, the promotional unit of the Project Management Unit in
SEMARNAP in Oaxaca will request local leaders to call meetings of the regional fora and
provide suggestions on agenda topics. With time, it is hoped that these fora will be
managed actively by local communities. It is not intended that these provide formal
representation of communities and their leaders for forestry issues. It is possible,
however, that over time, the communities within the region will begin to develop such
formal representation to provide a stronger lobby for regional interests at state level.



Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Design Options
1.    During project preparation, several options for project design were considered
which were consistent with the constraint analysis that had been undertaken jointly by the
Government and the Bank as part of the Mexico Resource Conservation and Forestry
Sector Review (Grey Cover Report No. 13114-NW; March 31, 1995).
2.    Early discussions between the Government and the Bank envisaged a project that
would include community forestry and protected areas management in two of the six
priority states with pine-oak forests. Oaxaca and Michoacan were initially chosen because
both states had: well organized forestry communities and ejidos; important forestry
resources, including pine-oak forests with commercial potential; high biodiversity within
the forestry areas under community and ejido management; experience by communities
with private providers of forestry services, which could be further developed; and
successful sustainable use of some non-timber forest products.
3.    After discussions in Mexico, it became clear that there was strong institutional
support for the community forestry activities, and that those activities could move ahead
more rapidly. There was, however, less support for protected areas management
activities. Within the Bank, the options were evaluated at the project concept stage using
criteria including: complexity, ownership by the implementing agency, institutional
capacity, community decision making, cost-effectiveness, and likely sustainability. The
results can be summarized as follows:
Community       Community        Community
Forestry and    Forestry in      Forestry in
Protected Areas  Oaxaca and      Oaxaca
Management in  Michoacan
Oaxaca and
Michoacan
Complexity               High             Medium           Low
Ownership                Low              Medium           High
Institutional Capacity   Low              Medium           Medium
Community Decision       Low              High             High
Making
Cost-Effectiveness       Medium           Medium           Medium
Likely Sustainability    Low              Medium           Medium
4.    Based on these results, and further discussions with the Government, Oaxaca was
chosen as the project location. The constraints to forestry development discussed in the
Sector Review were analyzed to see their applicability to Oaxaca. The results of these



Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
discussions are summarized below, and the project was designed to address the constraints
that were most relevant to Oaxaca:
Constraints to Forestry    Relevant in    Support      Support
Development              Oaxaca         through        through
Bank-funded   Government
Project        or Other
Programs
Transportation and       Medium                              *
production
infrastructure
Information on business  High                 *
opportunities, markets,
technologies
Timely credit            Medium                              *
Undifferentiated product    Medium                           *
markets and price
volatility
Land tenure and boundary   Medium             *              *
demarcation
Underutilization of Non-    Medium            *
Timber Forest Products
Poorly trained community   High
resource managers and
workers
Deforestation and loss of   High              *              *
biodiversity
Regulatory oversight and    Medium            *
enforcement



Annex 11
MEXICO
COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROJECT
Selected Documents in the Project File
World Bank Documents on Forestry in Mexico
Mexico Resource Conservation and Forest Sector Review, Grey Cover Report No.
13114-ME, March31, 1995.
Mexico Forestry Development Project Loan 3115-ME, Implementation Completion
Report No. 14625, June 29, 1995.
Indigenous Training in Mexico, Institutional Development Fund Grant No. 28855, 1995.
Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement, April 1996.
Forestry in Mexico and in Oaxaca, April, 1996.
Documents on Forestry in Mexico
Ley Forestal, Mexico, 1993.
Reglamento de la Ley Forestal, Mexico, 1994.
The State of Mexico's Forests Resources Management and Conservation, Dr. Gerardo
Segura, March 1996.
Programa Forestal y de Suelo 1995-2000, SEMARNAP, 1996.
Relacion del Proyecto con los Programas: Sectorial Forestal 1995 - 2000; Estatal de
Desarrollo Forestal Oaxaca 1995 - 1998; y el Fondo Nacional Para el Desarrollo
Forestal, CONAF, December 1995.
Table of Forestry Resources, Periodic Inventory of National Forestry, SARH, 1994.
Informacion Estadistica Basica de los Estados de Durango, Michoacan, Jalisco,
Chihuahua, y Guerrero, 1996.
Documents on Forestry in Oaxaca
Los Aprovechamientos Forestales en el Estado de Oaxaca, SEMARNAP Oaxaca, October
1995.
Informacion Estadistica de Oaxaca, SEMARNAP, November 1995.
Programa Basico de Ecologia del Estado de Oaxaca 1994 - 1998, CODE, August 1994.
Programa Estatal de Desarrollo Forestal 1995 - 1998, SEDAF Oaxaca.
Institutions in Oaxaca, April 1996.
Project-Related Documents
Conservacion y Manejo Sustentable de Recursos Forestales en Mexico: Analisis
Ambiental, SEMARNAP, October, 1996.
Justificacion de la Eleccion del Estado de Oaxaca para la Realizacion del Proyecto,
CONAF, December 1995.
Consulta a Comunidades Forestales del Estado de Oaxaca.
List of Forestry Communities in Oaxaca, Salvador Anta, October 25, 1996.
Terminos de Referencia (Draft).






PIUEBLA                                         -                                                                    PINE - OAK FORESTS IN OAXACA
'.  VERACRUZ PINE-OAK FORESTS
C  CENTRAL AMERICAN PINE-OAK FORESTS
i              N v                                                                                    '- M pAI wx ,  .M  S  SIERRA MADRP DEL SUR PINE-OAK FORSTS
,   A-  -          \      v   /                    r4-    j                                                                         MEXICAN TRANSVOLCANIC PINE-OAK FORESTS
-                       ,  1 '   -               '                                   $                                   @    STATE CAPITAL
/                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
-  STATE BOUJNDARIES
-~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                -- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
,                                 '                                            ~~~~~~~~~~I                                            S
OAXACA-
1       '                                                                                                                                                      /
f                -                                                                          ,- 
I*                                                                                                                                                             , , J
S 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
0             40            80            120
This                                                                                                  mpby the Mop Design Unit of The World hank.  -cnna                                                   v
D   The boundaries, colors, denominations cnd any other information
re shown on this map do not imply, on the port of The World Bank 
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
endorsement or occeptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                               ssuc.Zu    ca
s                                                                                                                                                r SALYADOR {E  s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E






IBRD 28404
al_._r                                ~~~~ ~~~~~~110-        ll10 W0
U  N  IT E D        S T A  T E S        O  F    A  M  E R I C  A
ta   ,  O                     !     ,~~-- ----- 1                '                                                                                                                                               2        -
o~~~~~o
; ' ' W 0 , < . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M   E X  IC    G 
{              .    <                                                          ff    >                             a                      ~~~~~~~~~~~MAJOR ECOSYSTEM TYPES 
C~~~~~~~~-
| '~~ ~ / 4 ' : ~~~ ' 0                                                                                                                                                                         T  < ROPICAL &SUbTROPICAL CONIFEROUS FORPESTS
.?   E  ; o -E  X  -'  <   ,   ' :e                           X               X                                       -   ,, .;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GRSSLND, SAANA, &SHRUB LANDS
°  'F :a Z _ \.~a   '                             iEELI
MEXIERAEA COU
a                        A p                                                                                                                          TROPICALd &i SUBTROPICAL CONIFEROUS FORESTS
,. '.                                                      MED ' J                 907ITERRANANDSRUB
"-    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~I                                      ~ul                                                  f     M ANioROE
20,                                                                                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20-
PACIFIC    OCEAN                                                                                                       So~~~~~~~~~~~~~By ot C.ampeche 
P A C I F I C   0 C E A N ~ ~     ~         ~        ~        ~        ~ ~ ~ ~ I                                                         -
o       t?0     20      300     400     500 04O0fThS
o            ton          200          30 woos
This mop wisprodued sy the Mop D.sign Un~it. ofTh. Word Bonk
Tho.todros oos denominaton end onyother in oostion sh,
judgosoto the log 1soo of oy t-ritosy,o on.y .ndo-s-t orE AL
\HONDURAS
ItiO'                                                                                    100
JAUARY 1997






IBRD 28405
_.___,_, - - - -10'                                                                                                       100                                                                     90
'\,     '-'_._
17-777-,                                             U N  I T E D    S T A T E S    O  F    A  M  E R I C A
-30                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         30-
S   0    N    0    R   A
CALIFORNIA                                          0 r                          \
SJ':             ''~~1//.'    /,//'          0'    ''//'
° ag                       ; ' .  ,C H I H U A, HUA"
<   .  .v  , '   (                . ,\,                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~M  E X  I C  0
BAJA   0n                          t / . ./  /                          0 COAHUILA   j4\                                              TEMPERATE AND TROPICAL FOREST
CALIFORNIA  .f.t
SUR  o   W   ('  /  ' f; .  .   ?  >fi.  t._                       TEMPERATE FORESTS
SUR    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~).'9 '-.TROPICAL FORESTS
-.                        )                                            '                                 _      PRIORITY STATES WITH PINE-OAK FORESTS
0                                                   \   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LEON                                           RIVERS
-3                                                                                                                                @ /   . ,  ,  ,  '%  ____,  r  Son F 0°  NATIONAL CAPITAL
D /  URANGO          -..\      '-  .                                                              ---- STATE BOUNDARIES
7 L  i   / r   '  l  (  TAMAUUIPAS            ---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-\  3 ZACATECAS  .-                                                        °0    100    200    300    400    500 KILOMETERS
ZACATECAS "                                                               _______________
'N                                         N r                                           o0         loo          200          300MILES
'       '  V           £ ..   SAN LUIS POTOSI
NAYARAGUAS-
NA Y                 A                                R I r (  ts. ArG = g Gulf of Mexico
/OtO    1--4   ;  jGUANAJUATO r-'g 1O  1                                                 t      YUCATAN    /
-R.0 *                                                                                       /J/AL;C l'sml- ..- HIALOL .. ,f                                                                                         \                       20-
.'        (             ,                          Y                        C .t  I QUINTANA -
P A   C/I f/I C        OQC  E A   N                                         ;----Mi        0                 z     J CITO N$D Fl 5 eX~ 9   --Ct Y     B T /  O f cBay  of Compeche                     ,     0O
COLIMA     A    MICHOACAN    j MEXICO             PUEBLA I?                                                 CAMPECHE
.7             (~    ,.~ORELJ5~'                    O                             s--' RE-OS
/                          I~~~ j _TABASCO    . '-
~   /  r r < rAsA-/                                           . 
. /-      \ i             /   /   / 5-7-'          q'. -<-                           !BELIZE
/    O   A  X  A   C  A/               CHIAPAS        ^"1
Ti, mop-  propc.d by th. Mop  U.signoi 0  Th. WorId R'.k.
Th. bos d      .  -om         -oy  on .ho,o, /-                                                                                                              /                  I               /                             /
io4_.t;h mop hnd, i-ply, en dh por d TiS Word fbnt G-op ,Z                                                          
jcdg.ont on ih I.oIib *oft. olnyf tonI.-;h, or ooy .odo.ooo, oo                                                                                                                                                            7      MALA
occ.pooc. #1 solcu boccbr,.s.                                                                                                                                                                   t                           HONDURAS
JANUARY 199'



i
t
4
i
I



IBRD 28406
-s   < . X<! w ;   68    'A-,,N   /               g9T,                       g     -       --                     9,6 
<'1  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I     - ~~~~~~~~~~Ba>    0F                                                                         U NI TED  STA TES OF rAME OIC
\,- -A
Mao                                                                                                                                                                                  ' -     /  -,    !   -  A   '  -   \  7
~~~  -} ~~~~~~eh6Ocon (.err/a  Blanco
.    .'        ,    '-                                      , u'-,-                                          Tuxtla                                  W E    --- X  I
<F.                                                                                                 . <-'-         .O
0  20  40                                      1Ž 80  100  -- U_                        -                                   I,                                                                                           \
K[LOMETERS ~~~~~~~~~-'                               -     ,    ~     ~    TeA                 .-                                                                                          OUUSTHEyOASI 0
Th,~  ~         ~~                   -,neil ool eoiceson  noe n mto hw                                                        -        -570
9S                             9>5                                            90>                               -  -  STATE 30UNDARIES -'0                                   94
E    R A C R- U
~~  *~~~~'->    i-  Oaiaco *                                                                    P~~~~~~~~~~~~~alomares                   -! N~IUTTU
Ccotl6n,
-  - )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~xi--
-N
- -~~~~~~~  Pina~~~~~~~~~~epo Noccnol ~ ~ ~     ~          ~          ~         ~          ~         ~        ~         ain  Cu
16'                                                                                                       --    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PH YSICA L F EATU R ES AN D    '--
0       20      nOc      60      'I0    lO
KILOMETERS
OTHER ROADS900
This -,,p -a poad-ad by th. Map Deaip Unit ni Th. Wd,d Bn-k                                                                                                           PICPL  IPR
anthis naP dan-t-nply, no ths ParE a Th. Warld ank G-ap, any                                                                                                   0    SELECTED CITIES                     00
Adg,n nths Igalswt-t1- aytrior,onyPsdrs,etO               A   C    F I C'         0   C  E A4  N                                                                 STATE CAPITAL                      00
Oaaaptanas aF saab baandar,,s                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STATE BOUNDARIES  0
98,                    9                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~96'9A
JANUARY I97









IMAGING
Report No:       16134 ME
Type: SOAR



