Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address: INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
December 18, 2003 
 
Lic. Timoteo Harris Howard 
Director de Financiamientos Internacionales 
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. 
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur # 1971 
Torre IV, piso 11 
01020 México, D.F. 
 
Dr. Andrés Conesa Labastida 
Titular de la Unidad de Crédito Público 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Palacio Nacional, Patio Central, Piso 3, Of. 3010, 
Col. Centro 
06000 México, D.F. 
 
Lic. Claudia Bazúa Witte 
Tesorera de la Federación 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Av. Constituyentes # 1001, Edif.. “A”, piso 4, 
Col. Belén de las Flores, 
06000 México, D.F. 
 
Re: Loan No. 4137-ME (Community Forestry Project) Amendment to the Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements 
 
Dear Sirs: 
 
Please refer to the Loan Agreement (the Loan Agreement) between 
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower) and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), dated May 2, 1997 and the 
Guarantee Agreement of even date therewith between the United Mexican States 
(the Guarantor) and the Bank, both with respect to the above-captioned Project.  
Based on discussions with your representatives, we are pleased to inform you that 
the Bank hereby proposes to amend the Loan and Guarantee Agreements to read as 
set forth in Attachment A to this letter (the specific changes made in arriving at those 
amended texts are reflected for your convenience in Attachment B to this letter).  
Page  2
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Borrower and 
the Guarantor, by signing and dating the three originals of this letter and returning 
one fully signed original to us.  The amendment set forth in this letter will become 
effective as of January 1, 2002 upon receipt by the Bank of (i) one fully executed 
original of this letter and (ii) a copy of the contractual arrangements referred to in 
Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement, together with legal opinions (one each from the 
Borrower, the Guarantor and CONAFOR), satisfactory to the Bank and issued by 
counsel acceptable to the Bank, confirming that said contractual arrangements have 
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the 
party on whose behalf the opinion is issued and are legally binding upon such party 
in accordance with the terms of such contractual arrangements. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
_______________________________ 
Isabel Guerrero 
Director 
Country Management Unit 
Colombia and México 
 
AGREED: 
 
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. 
 
 
By: /s/ Timoteo Harris Howard 
 
 
Date: December 22, 2003 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES as guarantor. 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By: 
/s/ Andrés Conesa Labastida 
 
By: /s/ Claudia María Bazúa Witte 
Date: 
December 22, 2003 
 
 
Date: /s/ December 22, 2003 
 
Signed by 
Tesorería de la Federación
 
for the only purposes of Article 54 
 
of the 
Ley del Servicio de Tesorería 
 
de la Federación
,
regarding the 
 
Guarantor’s obligations set forth in 
Page  3
Article II, Section 2.01 of the 
 
Guarantee Agreement. 
 
Page  4
Attachment A
 
LOAN NUMBER 4137-ME 
 
Loan Agreement
 
(Community Forestry Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. 
 
Dated May 2, 1997 (as amended on June 1, 2000 and December 18, 2003)
Page  5
LOAN NUMBER 4137-ME 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated May 2, 1997 between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NACIONAL 
FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the Borrower). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the 
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in 
the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith 
between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the 
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other 
obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement, except that 
Section 6.03 of the General Conditions is modified to read:  "Section 6.03. 
Cancellation by the Bank.
 If (a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Bank 
determines, after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will 
not be required to finance the Project's costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (c) at any time the Bank determines, with respect to any contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices 
were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the 
Loan during the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to 
remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
Page  6
such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement 
and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which 
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn 
from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from the 
Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of 
such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled.". 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the 
following meanings: 
 
(a) 
"Community" means the population and land tenancy unit 
(comunidad
), with its own legal personality, governed by Title III, Chapter V of 
the Guarantor's Agrarian Law (Ley
Agraria
), published in the Guarantor's Official 
Gazette (Diario
Oficial
de
la
Federación
)
on
February 26, 1992;  
 
(b) 
"CONABIO" means the Guarantor's National Biodiversity 
Commission (Comisión
Nacional
para
el
Conocimiento
y
Uso
de
la
Biodiversidad
); 
 
(c) 
“CONAFOR” means the Guarantor’s National Forestry 
Commission (Comisión Nacional Forestal);
(d) "Ejido
"
means the population and land tenancy unit, with its own 
legal personality, governed by Title III, Chapters I-IV of the Guarantor's Agrarian 
Law (Ley
Agraria
), published in the Guarantor's Official Gazette (Diario
Oficial
de
la
Federación
)
on
February 26, 1992; 
 
(e) 
"Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith, 
from the Guarantor to the Bank, with respect to the implementation schedule and 
indicators for the Project; 
 
(f) 
"Management Plan" means a forestry management program 
(programa
de
manejo
forestal
)
referred to in Article 12 of the Guarantor's Forestry 
Law cited in Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
Page  7
(g) 
"Participating States" means the Mexican States of Chihuahua, 
Durango, Guerrero, Jalisco, Michoacán and Oaxaca; 
 
(h) 
"Pilot Projects" means projects, carried out by Communities and 
Ejidos 
and financed with nonreimbursable contributions made by CONAFOR to 
such Communities and Ejidos
,
to implement economically viable proposals, 
consistent with such Communities’ and Ejidos
’
Management Plans (either 
approved by SEMARNAT or by another public sector entity, satisfactory to the 
Bank, legally mandated to undertake such approval role), for the development and 
management of tradable or potentially tradable non-timber and non-traditional 
forest products; 
 
(i) 
"PIT" means each Project implementation team referred to in 
Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of the Guarantee Agreement; 
 
(j) 
"PMT" means the Project management team referred to in Section 
3.01 (b) (i) of the Guarantee Agreement; 
 
(k) 
"Secretariat" means the Forestry Secretariat, or its equivalent, of 
the executive branch of the government of a Participating State; 
 
(l) 
"SEMARNAT" means the Guarantor's Natural Resources and 
Environment Secretariat (Secretaría
de
Medio
Ambiente
y
Recursos
Naturales
); 
and 
 
(m) 
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
fifteen million Dollars ($15,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for:  (i) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Guarantor 
on account of expenditures incurred by a Community or Ejido
to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required to carry out Pilot Projects 
under Part C.2 of the Project and in respect of which the withdrawal from the 
Loan Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so 
Page  8
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services 
required for the Project (other than Part C.2 of the Project) described in Schedule 
2
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in Banco
de
México
on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later 
date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower 
and the Guarantor of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at 
the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including 
the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial 
period, each period from and including an Interest Payment 
Date to, but excluding the next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
 
(ii) 
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in 
the case of the initial Interest Period, for value the Interest 
Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of 
such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(iv) 
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:  (A) 
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
Page  9
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made 
by it that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of LIBOR 
Base Rate and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the 
determination thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the 
interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the 
Borrower and the Guarantor of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on 
the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said 
period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the 
Loan. 
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable May 15 and 
November 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan 
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants
 
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into contractual arrangements with 
the Guarantor and CONAFOR, satisfactory to the Bank, providing, inter alia, for:  
(a) the transfer to the Guarantor of the proceeds of the Loan for use by 
CONAFOR; (b) the transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower of such funds as 
the Borrower shall be required to pay to the Bank on account of principal, interest 
and other charges on the Loan; and (c) compliance by CONAFOR with all the 
obligations that the Guarantor, pursuant to the terms of the Guarantee Agreement, 
is obligated to cause CONAFOR to comply with, for purposes of the Project (as 
well as compliance by CONAFOR with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Page  10
Guarantee Agreement).  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under such 
contractual arrangements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 
 
Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions (relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans 
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) shall be 
carried out, or caused to be carried out, by the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.04 
(a) of the Guarantee Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall participate in the review referred to in 
Section 3.13 (c) of the Guarantee Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, the resources and expenditures in connection with the 
execution of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section, and the records and accounts for the Special 
Account, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
generally accepted auditing standards and procedures, 
consistently applied, by independent and qualified auditors; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank each month certified statements of the 
Special Account; and 
 
Page  11
(iv) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts as well as the audit thereof as the 
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Guarantor any information that may be required by the 
Guarantor to comply with the Guarantor's obligations under Section 3.05 (c) of 
the Guarantee Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) The 
Ley
Forestal
(Forestry Law; published in the Guarantor's 
Diario
Oficial
de
la
Federac
ión
on December 22, 1992) shall have been, in whole 
or in part, amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in 
the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the carrying out of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Forestry Law's regulations, published in the Guarantor's Diario
Oficial
de
la
Federación
on February 21, 1994, shall have been, in whole or in 
part, amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the 
opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the carrying out of the Project. 
 
(c) 
The decree creating CONAFOR, published in the Guarantor’s 
Diario
Oficial
de
la
Federación
on April 4, 2001, and/or CONAFOR’s Organic 
Statute (Estatuto
Orgánico
), shall have been, in whole or in part, amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the 
Bank, materially and adversely the carrying out of the Project. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that any event specified in 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to 
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) 
Page  12
of the General Conditions, namely, that the contractual arrangements referred to 
in Section 3.01 of this Agreement have been entered into. 
 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the 
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that on behalf of each of 
the Borrower and the Guarantor, the contractual arrangements referred to in 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified, and 
executed and delivered, by the Borrower and the Guarantor and are legally 
binding upon the Borrower and the Guarantor in accordance with the terms of 
such contractual arrangements. 
 
Section 6.03. The date August 1, 1997 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Director
Internacional
of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Page  13
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
 
   248423 (MCI) or 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
     64145 (MCI) 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. 
 
Dirección Internacional 
 
Torre IV, piso 8 
 
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971 
 
01020 México, D.F. 
 
México 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
 
NAFIN 
    
 
 
NAFIME 
383-
1775765 
 
Mexico City 
 
 
Mexico City 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the 
day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki 
 
Regional Vice President 
 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
 
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. 
 
By /s/ José García Torres 
 Authorized 
Representative 
Page  14
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
 
     % of 
 
(Expressed in 
 
 Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods (except items 
1,000,000 
70%  
 
included in Categories (3) 
 
 
 
or (4) below and vehicles, but 
 
including aerial photographs) 
 
 
(2) Consultant 
services 
 
 
(except as included in 
 
Categories (3) and (4) below): 
 
(a) 
under Part A.2 of 
5,800,000 
100% of amount 
 
the Project 
 
disbursed by 
 
CONAFOR to 
 
Communities and 
 
Ejidos
(b) other 
5,000,000 
100% 
 
(3) 
Pilot Projects 
1,000,000 
100% of amounts 
 
disbursed by 
 
CONAFOR to 
 
Communities and 
 
Ejidos 
for Pilot 
 
Projects 
 
(4) Training 
2,200,000 
100% 
 
Page  15
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
 
     % of 
 
(Expressed in 
 
 Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(5) Unallocated 
0 
 
______________ 
 
TOTAL 15,000,000 
 
============ 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "training" includes only:  (a) 
fees of consultants employed as trainers; (b) reasonable travel, room, board and 
per
diem
expenditures incurred by trainees in connection with their training under 
Parts A and D of the Project; (c) course fees charged by academic institutions; and 
(d) training material preparation, acquisition, reproduction and distribution 
expenses not otherwise covered under this paragraph. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made:  (a) in respect of a Pilot Project unless the procedures, terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Section 3.10 of the Guarantee Agreement 
have been complied with for that Pilot Project; and (b) in respect of payments 
made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $1,500,000, 
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within the 
twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement but after March 1, 1996. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent (in the case of consulting firms) and less than 
$50,000 equivalent (in the case of individual consultants), as well as for 
expenditures for training items referred to in paragraph 2 (b), (c) and (d) of this 
Schedule, for goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract 
or per bid package and for Pilot Projects, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
Page  16
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project
 
The objectives of the Project are to:  (a) improve natural resource 
management and conservation by Community and Ejido
forestry resource owners 
in Mexico; and (b) increase the range of forestry-based income generating options 
available to such owners. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Assistance to Participating States’ Communities and Ejidos
1. 
Implementation of promotional activities to inform Communities and Ejidos in 
the Participating States of the support available to them under the Project and to evaluate 
their pine-oak, tropical and/or other broadleaf forestry resource management interests and 
needs. 
 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance to Communities and Ejidos in the Participating 
States in support of their pine-oak, tropical and/or other broadleaf forestry resource 
management-related initiatives undertaken to, inter alia:  (a) prepare or upgrade 
Management Plans; (b) prepare forested area conservation plans; (c) address integrated 
forestry resource management and forestry research issues; and (d) increase the 
efficiency of their forestry enterprises. 
 
3. 
Provision of demand-driven training (through courses, workshops, 
seminars and two- or four-year scholarships), to members of Communities and of 
Ejidos in the Participating States, on pine-oak, tropical and/or other broadleaf 
forestry resource management topics (including environmental, biodiversity and 
land use planning and boundary issues). 
 
4. 
Implementation, on a national or regional level, of Community/Ejido-to-
Community/Ejido workshops sponsored by the Communities and/or Ejidos to 
exchange information on forestry development and conservation activities. 
 
Part B
:
Capacity Strengthening Assistance to Private Service Providers
1. 
Provision of environmental, forestry resource management and related 
training (including biodiversity training), through two-week 
orientation/immersion workshops, to private providers of services to 
Communities and Ejidos
engaged in forestry activities, so as to make such 
providers eligible to provide technical assistance under Part A.2 of the Project. 
 
Page  17
2. 
Implementation, through courses consisting of two-week workshops, of a 
post-graduate level continuing education program (in the same fields for which 
training is provided under Part B.1 of the Project) for providers deemed eligible 
pursuant to Part B.1 of the Project so that they may maintain such eligibility. 
 
Part C
:
Promotion of Non-timber Forest Products
1. 
(a) Carrying out of diagnostic studies to create a comprehensive data base 
on the extent, management, production, use, conservation and trade of tradable or 
potentially tradable non-timber and non-traditional forest products in the 
Participating States; and (b) implementation of campaigns to promote interest in 
the carrying out of Pilot Projects. 
 
2. 
Carrying out of Pilot Projects by Communities and Ejidos
in the 
Participating States. 
 
3. 
Monitoring, evaluation, publication and other dissemination of the results 
of the Pilot Projects carried out under Part C.2 of the Project. 
 
Part D
:
Institutional Strengthening
1. 
Strengthening (through the provision of technical assistance, training and 
goods) of the SEMARNAT Oaxaca office's capacity to review, approve, 
supervise and audit Management Plans. 
 
2. 
(a) Strengthening (through the provision of technical assistance, training 
and goods) of the capacity of SEMARNAT and CONAFOR offices located in the 
Participating States to carry out their forestry responsibilities; and (b) 
strengthening (through the provision of technical assistance and training) of the 
capacity of the Secretariats to absorb forestry responsibilities, held by 
SEMARNAT and/or CONAFOR, which are potentially transferable to such 
Secretariats. 
 
3. 
Design, computerization, administration and dissemination of the 
SEMARNAT and/or CONAFOR Sistema
Nacional
de
Información
Forestal
(National Forestry Information System) and Registro
Nacional
Forestal
(National 
Forestry Registry). 
 
4. 
Provision of training (through courses, workshops, study tours, seminars 
and two-year scholarships) to CONAFOR forestry officials to upgrade their 
forestry, administrative and technology skills. 
 
5. 
Provision of equipment and administrative support to the PMT and the 
PITs to facilitate their role in Project management. 
Page  18
6. 
Carrying out of workshops and other preliminary activities in connection 
with the preparation of potential future pine-oak, tropical and/or other broadleaf 
forest projects, for the States of Chihuahua, Dura
ngo, Michoacán, Jalisco and 
Guerrero, modeled on Parts A and B of the Project. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.  
 
Page  19
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule
 
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)
*
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
beginning November 15, 2002 
 
through May 15, 2012 
750,000 
 
___________________ 
 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  20
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Special Account
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and 
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i)  
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii)  
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan 
Page  21
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount 
as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. 
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account 
Page  22
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not 
so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments 
for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant  provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions. 
Page  23
LOAN NUMBER 4137-ME 
 
Guarantee Agreement
 
(Community Forestry Project) 
 
between 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 2, 1997 (as amended on June 1, 2000 and December 18, 2003)
Page  24
LOAN NUMBER 4137-ME 
 
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated May 2, 1997,  between UNITED MEXICAN 
STATES  (the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the 
Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist 
in the financing of the Project; and 
 
(B) 
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank 
and the Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in the 
amount of fifteen million Dollars ($15,000,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to 
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan and to undertake 
such other obligations as provided in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations 
of the Borrower and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the 
Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
 
Page  25
ARTICLE II 
 
Guarantee; Provision of Funds 
 
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby 
unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due 
and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the 
Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual 
performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the 
Loan Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. The Guarantor shall provide, in a timely manner as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall cause CONAFOR to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate environmental, financial, technical and 
administrative standards and practices, as well as in accordance with the technical 
assistance financing criteria and periodically adjustable implementation schedule 
set forth in the Implementation Letter. 
 
(b) 
Throughout the course of Project implementation, the Guarantor 
shall: 
 
(i) 
cause CONAFOR to maintain a Project 
management team in CONAF
OR’s headquarters, consisting 
of sufficient qualified staff to carry out general Project 
coordination, provide liaison with officials of the 
Participating States and provide procurement and forestry 
expertise in connection with the Project; 
 
(ii) 
cause CONAFOR to maintain a Project 
implementation team in each of the CONAFOR regional 
offices (gerencias
regionales
)
that have jurisdiction over a 
Participating State, consisting of sufficient qualified staff 
and/or consultants to carry out general Project coordination 
within the Participating States, promote the Project, provide 
Page  26
liaison with Communities and Ejidos
and provide 
administrative, training, procurement and biodiversity 
expertise in connection with the Project (of which the 
procurement and biodiversity expertise shall each be 
represented by a separate staff member and/or consultant in 
each such regional office); and 
 
(iii) 
maintain an advisory committee, consisting 
of selected SEMARNAT and CONAFOR officials 
satisfactory to the Bank, to ensure coordination of Project 
activities with other SEMARNAT and CONAFOR 
initiatives, evaluate Project progress and make 
recommendations for improved Project execution as 
necessary. 
 
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall enter into the contractual arrangements 
referred to in Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement.  Except as the Bank may 
otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of 
such contractual arrangements.  The Guarantor shall exercise its rights and carry 
out its obligations under such contractual arrangements in such a manner as to 
protect the interests of the Guarantor and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan. 
 
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultant services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.04. (a) The Guarantor shall cause CONAFOR to carry out the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the 
General Conditions (relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, 
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) with 
regard to the Project. 
 
(b) 
For purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitation thereto, the Guarantor shall cause CONAFOR to: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later 
than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Guarantor and 
the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
 
Page  27
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to 
exchange views with the Guarantor and CONAFOR on said 
plan. 
 
Section 3.05. (a) The Guarantor shall cause CONAFOR to maintain 
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in connection 
with the execution of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Guarantor shall cause CONAFOR to: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and 
procedures consistently applied, by independent and 
qualified auditors; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but 
in any case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information 
concerning said records and accounts as well as the audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Guarantor 
shall cause CONAFOR to: 
 
(i) 
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) 
of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank 
has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of 
the Special Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
Page  28
(iii) 
enable the Bank's representatives to examine 
such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are 
included in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support 
the related withdrawals. 
 
(d) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made 
from the Special Account, the Guarantor shall provide, or cause CONAFOR to 
provide, to the Borrower any information that may be required by the Borrower to 
comply with the Borrower's obligations under Section 4.01 of the Loan 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.06. With regard to Part A.2 of the Project, the Guarantor shall 
cause CONAFOR to: 
 
(a) 
have the PMT prepare and maintain an updated roster of technical 
assistance providers from the private sector, a set of standardized terms of 
reference for the types of technical assistance that may be provided by said 
providers and a standard contract to be entered into between said providers and 
Communities and Ejidos
,
all satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
have the PITs distribute to Communities and Ejidos
the roster, 
standard terms of reference and standard contract referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section;  
 
(c) 
subject to the Bank prior review stipulations contained in 
paragraph 2 of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement with respect to 
consultant contracts, have the PITs accept standard contracts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section entered into by Communities or Ejidos
,
with 
technical assistance providers on the roster referred to in said paragraph (a), 
which contracts incorporate standard terms of reference also referred to in said 
paragraph (a); 
 
(d) 
have the PITs, through a disbursement mechanism satisfactory to 
the Bank, pay each of the technical assistance providers for such 
provider’s 
services, according to the terms of the standard contract referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section, if:  (i) said provider's contract was accepted by the relevant 
PIT pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section; (ii) the terms of reference 
Page  29
incorporated in such contract are the standard ones referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section or are otherwise approved by the Bank; and (iii) the relevant PIT has 
received a signed certification from the relevant Ejido
president or Community 
leader (comisariado
), as the case may be, that said provider has completed the 
work for which payment is sought; and 
 
(e) 
have the PITs actively solicit annual or more frequent evaluations 
of their participation in Part A.2 of the Project from Communities and Ejidos
.
Section 3.07. With regard to Part A.2 of the Project, the Guarantor shall 
cause CONAFOR to ensure that the provisions of Section I of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement are complied with. 
 
Section 3.08. With regard to Part A.3 of the Project, the Guarantor shall 
cause CONAFOR to ensure that: 
 
(a) 
to be eligible for a scholarship, members of a Community or of an 
Ejido
must have been nominated by their Community or Ejido
and accepted by a 
training institution for admission into such institution’s study program; 
 
(b) 
from among those eligible for scholarships pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, scholarships be awarded solely to those whose scholarship 
applications have been approved by a review panel which shall be in existence 
throughout Project implementation and shall consist of the head (delegado
)
of
the 
SEMARNAT office in relevant Participating State, the head (gerente
regional
)
of
the CONAFOR regional office (gerencia
regional
)
for the relevant Participating 
State, the head (in the case of the State of Oaxaca) of the Forestry Technical 
School (Escuela
Técnica
Forestal
de
Santa
María
Atzompa
)
in Oaxaca and the 
head of the relevant Participating State’s Secretariat; and 
 
(c) 
the relevant PIT pays the relevant training institution in advance 
for each semester’s tuition, and pays the scholarship recipient in advance for each 
semester’s room and board. 
 
Section 3.09. With regard to Part B of the Project, the Guarantor shall 
cause CONAFOR to allow private providers of services to be eligible to 
participate in Part A.2 of the Project only if:  (a) such providers (or at least one 
member thereof if the provider is a firm) have successfully completed the 
orientation/immersion workshop referred to in Part B.1 of the Project and have 
successfully completed one course per year from among the courses offered in the 
continuing education program referred to in Part B.2 of the Project; and (b) such 
providers have not provided services under Part A.2 of the Project in a manner 
unsatisfactory to Communities or Ejidos
.
Page  30
Section 3.10. With regard to Part C of the Project, the Guarantor shall 
cause CONAFOR to provide nonreimbursable contributions to Communities and 
Ejidos
in a Participating State, in support of Pilot Projects, only if: 
 
(a) 
the diagnostic study referred to in Part C.1 (a) of the Project has 
been carried out for that Participating State and contains a list, satisfactory to the 
Bank, of forest products appropriate for potential productive development; 
 
(b) 
the forest product that is the subject of the Pilot Project is 
identified in the list referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section; and 
 
(c) 
the provisions of Section II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement are 
complied with. 
 
Section 3.11. With regard to Part D.3 of the Project, the Guarantor shall 
cause SEMARNAT and/or CONAFOR to ensure that:  (a) the computerized and 
disseminated National Forestry Information System referred to in said Part D.3 
include data (in the form of threatened species information sheets) for each of the 
species that occur in Mexican forests and are listed in the CITES or the NOM-059 
referred to in Section II, paragraph 3 (h) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (b) 
prior to or concurrent with the computerization and dissemination of the National 
Forestry Information System, such threatened species information sheets also be 
disseminated in a non-computerized format suitable for use in the field. 
 
Section 3.12. With regard to Part D.4 of the Project, the Guarantor shall 
cause CONAFOR to: 
 
(a) 
only award two-year scholarships to staff, of the CONAFOR 
regional offices (gerencias
regionales
)
for the Participating States, who have an 
undergraduate professional degree and who have had their scholarship 
applications approved by the advisory committee referred to in Section 3.01 (b) 
(iii) of this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
not award more than a single two-year scholarship per student. 
 
Section 3.13. (a) Throughout the course of Project implementation, and 
without limitation of the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the 
Guarantor s
hall cause CONAFOR’s PMT to furnish to the Bank, by no later than 
each January 31 (starting no later than January 31, 1998), an annual progress 
report on implementation of the Project, in form satisfactory to the Bank and 
based on the implementation schedule and indicators set forth in the 
Implementation Letter.  Each such report shall include, as a separate component 
thereof, the results of the Communities' and Ejidos
'
own monitoring of those Parts 
of the Project in which they participate.  
Page  31
(b) 
As part of each annual report referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Guarantor shall cause CONAFOR’s PMT to present to the Bank an 
annual action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for Project implementation during the 
immediately subsequent twelve months.  The Guarantor shall cause CONAFOR 
to carry out each such action plan during the twelve months covered by the action 
plan, which plan may contain, inter
alia
,
the periodic adjustment to the 
implementation schedule and indicators referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement (as well as adjustments to the procurement plan referred to in Section 
I, Part D.1 of the Schedule to this Agreement). 
 
(c) 
The Guarantor shall cause CONAFOR to hold a review of Project 
implementation with the Bank and the Borrower during the month of September 
1999. Such review shall, based, inter
alia
,
on
the annual reports referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section: 
 
(i)  examine the status of Project 
implementation; 
 
(ii) discuss the transfer of forestry 
responsibilities referred to in Part D.2 of the Project; 
 
(iii) 
examine the status of project preparation 
referred to in Part D.6 of the Project; 
 
(iv) 
examine whether to introduce cost recovery 
measures with respect to the training provided under Part B 
of the Project; and 
 
(v) 
examine whether to amend this Agreement 
and the Loan Agreement to extend Part C of the Project to 
States other than the Participating States. 
 
Section 3.14. The Guarantor shall ensure and cause CONAFOR to ensure that 
no Management Plans supported in any way under the Project (or other plans referred to 
in Part A of the Project or elsewhere in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement) are carried 
out unless such Management Plans and other plans are deemed, in writing by the Bank, 
to support independently certifiable sustainable forestry management and conservation 
oriented forestry and to otherwise comply with the Bank’s Operational Policy on 
Forestry (OP 4.36 of September 1993), as such Operational Policy may be amended 
from time to time. 
Page  32
ARTICLE IV 
 
Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses 
 
Section 4.01. The Director
General
de
Crédito
Público
of the Guarantor is 
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions. 
 
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Guarantor: 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Dirección General de Crédito Público  
 
Palacio Nacional, Colonia Centro 
 
06000 México, D.F. 
 
México 
 
Telex: 
 
1777313-SHOCME 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
   Telex: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
 
   248423 (MCI) 
 
Washington, D.C.   
    
     64145 (MCI) 
Page  33
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the 
day and year first above written. 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By /s/ Jesús Silva Herzog 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki 
 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Page  34
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Procurement and Consultants' Services
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Parts C, D and E of this Section, goods 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
 
(a) 
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the 
Borrower. 
 
Part C
:
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract or per 
bid package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines, using standard bidding documents 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Page  35
Part D
:
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract or per 
bid package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national or international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 
of the Guidelines. 
 
Part E
:
Pilot Project Goods and Works
Goods and works for the carrying out of Pilot Projects may be procured by 
Communities or Ejidos
in accordance with procedures, including direct 
contracting, acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Part F
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods (other than those procured for Pilot 
Projects) shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall 
have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply with respect to all goods procured under Part B of this 
Section and to the first five contracts or bid packages for goods procured under 
Part C of this Section. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
1. 
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published 
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-
based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract 
Page  36
for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as 
shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract 
documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the 
Bank shall be used. 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval 
of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, 
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to contracts for the employment 
of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each and 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall 
not apply to:  (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source 
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; and 
(e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising 
the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above. 
Page  37
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Procedures, Terms and Conditions with Respect to 
Parts A.2 and C.2 of the Project 
 
Section I
.
With regard to Part A.2 of the Project: 
 
1. 
no technical assistance shall be provided to Communities and Ejidos
with 
respect to investments in timber harvesting or timber processing equipment, as 
well as with respect to any road-related civil works or engineering; 
 
2. 
no technical assistance shall be provided to Communities and Ejidos
not 
appearing on the list, in the Implementation Letter, of eligible Communities and 
Ejidos
(as such list may be updated from time to time by written notifications, 
satisfactory to the Bank, from the Guarantor to the Bank); 
 
3. 
no technical assistance shall be provided to Communities and Ejidos
that 
fail to f
ormally evidence their membership’s support (through an acta
or similar 
communal instrument and a letter to CONAFOR) for receiving the technical 
assistance; 
 
4. 
Communities and Ejidos
receiving technical assistance shall have had 
some of their members successfully complete, within twelve months after said 
Communities and Ejidos
begin receiving such technical assistance, an 
environmental impact and conservation course under Part A.3 of the Project; and 
 
5. 
the relevant Community and Ejido
shall:  (a) pay at least 30% of the cost 
of the technical assistance if it operates a timber processing enterprise; (b) pay at 
least 25% of the cost of the technical assistance if it does not operate a timber 
processing enterprise but harvests timber; and (c) pay at least 20% of the cost of 
the technical assistance if it does not operate a timber processing enterprise, does 
not harvest timber, but sells standing timber (Communities or Ejidos
that lack a 
Management Plan (approved as indicated in Section 1.02 (h) of the Loan 
Agreement) and do not fall under subparagraphs (a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph 
shall pay at least 10% of the technical assistance cost). 
 
Section II
.
With regard to Part C.2 of the Project, the Guarantor shall cause 
CONAFOR to: 
 
Page  38
1. 
only provide nonreimbursable contributions to Communities and Ejidos
which have in place a Management Plan (approved as indicated in Section 1.02 
(h) of the Loan Agreement), have an uncontested legal right to exploit the forest 
properties with respect to which the contributions are sought and have had their 
Pilot Project proposals approved after steps two or three (as applicable) of the 
review procedure set forth in paragraph 4 of this Section; 
 
2. 
not finance more than one Pilot Project per Community or Ejido
,
not 
contribute more than $18,700 equivalent to each Pilot Project; 
 
3. 
only finance Pilot Projects pursuant to a standard contract, satisfactory to the 
Bank, entered into between CONAFOR and the relevant Community or Ejido
,
which 
contract shall, inter
alia
:
(a) require the Community or Ejido
to contribute at least 25% of 
the cost, in cash or in kind, of the Pilot Project activities (which contribution shall include 
all value added tax included in the cost of such activities); (b) specify that the 
nonreimbursable contribution shall be disbursed to the Community or Ejido
in tranches 
over a period not to exceed two years, the first of which tranches shall be an advance and 
the rest of which shall be disbursed against confirmation by CONAFOR, by means of on-
site evaluations, of the physical progress of the Pilot Project activities as measured 
according to benchmarks identified in the standard contract; (c) specify that procurement 
of the goods, works and services to be financed with the nonreimbursable contribution 
shall be governed by the provisions of Section I, Part E of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(d) specify that the Community or Ejido
shall take all action necessary to facilitate 
Guarantor compliance with the terms of Sections 3.04 (a) and 3.05 of this Agreement in 
connection with the Pilot Project in question; (e) preclude the use of the nonreimbursable 
contribution to compensate the Community or Ejido
for labor provided by their members; 
(f) preclude the carrying out, as part of the Pilot Project, of activities relating to, or in 
preparation for, road construction; (g) preclude the purchase, as part of the Pilot Project, 
of timber harvesting equipment; and (h) preclude the carrying out, as part of the Pilot 
Project, of activities relating to, or in preparation for, exploitation of any plant or animal 
species listed in the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Fauna 
and Flora (CITES) or in the Guarantor’s list of threatened species (Norma
Oficial
Mexicana
NOM-059), except that such activities may be carried out as part of the Pilot 
Project, with the prior approval of the Bank, and if the individual plant or animal 
specimens in question: 
 
(i)  are of a species not listed in CITES Appendix I or qualify as part of CITES 
Appendix II pursuant to CITES Article VII (4); 
 
(ii) qualify for the issuance of certificates pursuant to CITES Article VII (5) and are 
bred or propagated from parent specimens that also qualify for the issuance of such 
certificates; 
 
(iii) are to be placed in trade or otherwise disposed of in a manner specifically 
approved by INE and consistent with the terms of CITES and of Mexican law; and 
 
Page  39
(iv) if of a species listed in Norma
Oficial
Mexicana
NOM-059 but not in a 
CITES Appendix, have been bred or propagated, and are to be placed in trade or 
otherwise disposed of, in a manner specifically approved by INE and consistent 
with the terms of Mexican law; 
 
4. 
subject Pilot Project proposals submitted by Communities or Ejidos
to a 
two- or three-step review process whereby:  (a) in step one, the proposals are 
screened by the relevant Participating State's review panel consisting of the head 
(delegado
)
of the SEMARNAT office in that Participating State and the head 
(gerente
regional
)
of CONAFOR’s regional office (gerencia
regional
)
for that 
Participating State; (b) in step two, the proposals approved in step one undergo a 
final screening by a federal review panel consisting of the SEMARNAT 
environmental protection subsecretary (sub-secretario
de
gestión
para
la
protección
ambiental
), the CONAFOR director general (director
general
)
and the 
president of CONABIO; and (c) in step three (only applicable to the first ten Pilot 
Projects to be financed under the Project), the proposals are reviewed and 
approved by the Bank; and 
 
5. 
cause independent physical monitoring and financial auditing of activities 
in each Participating State on an annual basis (and, as part of such monitoring, 
actively solicit annual or more frequent evaluations of their participation in Part C 
of the Project from Communities and Ejidos
). 
Page  40
Attachment B 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4137-ME 
 
Loan Agreement
 
(Community Forestry Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. 
 
Dated May 2, 1997 (as amended on June 1, 2000 and 
December 18, 2003
)
Page  41
LOAN NUMBER 4137-ME 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated May 2, 1997 between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NACIONAL 
FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the Borrower). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the 
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in 
the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith 
between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the 
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other 
obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement, except that 
Section 6.03 of the General Conditions is modified to read:  "Section 6.03. 
Cancellation by the Bank.
 If (a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Bank 
determines, after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will 
not be required to finance the Project's costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (c) at any time the Bank determines, with respect to any contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices 
were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the 
Loan during the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to 
remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
Page  42
such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement 
and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which 
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn 
from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from the 
Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of 
such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled.". 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the 
following meanings: 
 
(a) 
"Community" means the population and land tenancy unit 
(comunidad
), with its own legal personality, governed by Title III, Chapter V of 
the Guarantor's Agrarian Law (Ley
Agraria
), published in the Guarantor's Official 
Gazette (Diario
Oficial
de
la
Federación
)
on
February 26, 1992;  
 
(b) 
"CONABIO" means the Guarantor's National Biodiversity 
Commission (Comisión
Nacional
para
el
Conocimiento
y
Uso
de
la
Biodiversidad
); 
 
(c) 
“CONAFOR” means the Guarantor’s National Forestry 
Commision (Comisión Nacional Forestal);
(d) "Ejido
"
means the population and land tenancy unit, with its own 
legal personality, governed by Title III, Chapters I-IV of the Guarantor's Agrarian 
Law (Ley
Agraria
), published in the Guarantor's Official Gazette (Diario
Oficial
de
la
Federación
)
on
February 26, 1992; 
 
(e) 
"Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith, 
from the Guarantor to the Bank, with respect to the implementation schedule and 
indicators for the Project; 
 
(f) 
"Management Plan" means a forestry management program 
(programa
de
manejo
forestal
)
referred to in Article 12 of the Guarantor's Forestry 
Law cited in Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
Page  43
(g) 
"Participating States" means the Mexican States of Chihuahua, 
Durango, Guerrero, Jalisco, Michoacán and Oaxaca; 
 
(h) 
"Pilot Projects" means projects, carried out by Communities and 
Ejidos 
and financed with nonreimbursable contributions made by CONAFOR to 
such Communities and Ejidos
,
to implement economically viable proposals, 
consistent with such Communities’ and Ejidos
’
Management Plans (either 
approved by SEMARNAT or by another public sector entity, satisfactory to the 
Bank, legally mandated to undertake such approval role)
,
for the development and 
management of tradable or potentially tradable non-timber and non-traditional 
forest products; 
 
(i) 
"PIT" means each Project implementation team referred to in 
Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of the Guarantee Agreement; 
 
(j) 
"PMT" means the Project management team referred to in Section 
3.01 (b) (i) of the Guarantee Agreement; 
 
(k) 
"Secretariat" means the Forestry Secretariat, or its equivalent, of 
the executive branch of the government of a Participating State; 
 
(l) 
"SEMARNAT" means the Guarantor's Natural Resources and 
Environment Secretariat (Secretaría
de
Medio
Ambiente
y
Recursos
Naturales
); 
and 
 
(m) 
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
fifteen million Dollars ($15,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for:  (i) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Guarantor 
on account of expenditures incurred by a Community or Ejido
to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required to carry out Pilot Projects 
under Part C.2 of the Project and in respect of which the withdrawal from the 
Loan Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so 
Page  44
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services 
required for the Project (other than Part C.2 of the Project) described in Schedule 
2
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in Banco
de
México
on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later 
date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower 
and the Guarantor of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at 
the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including 
the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial 
period, each period from and including an Interest Payment 
Date to, but excluding the next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
 
(ii) 
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in 
the case of the initial Interest Period, for value the Interest 
Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of 
such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(iv) 
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:  (A) 
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
Page  45
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made 
by it that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of LIBOR 
Base Rate and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the 
determination thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the 
interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the 
Borrower and the Guarantor of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on 
the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said 
period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the 
Loan. 
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable May 15 and 
November 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan 
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Page  46
ARTICLE III 
 
Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants
 
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into contractual arrangements with 
the Guarantor and CONAFOR, satisfactory to the Bank, providing, inter alia, for:  
(a) the transfer to the Guarantor of the proceeds of the Loan for use by 
CONAFOR; (b) the transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower of such funds as 
the Borrower shall be required to pay to the Bank on account of principal, interest 
and other charges on the Loan; and (c) compliance by CONAFOR with all the 
obligations that the Guarantor, pursuant to the terms of the Guarantee Agreement, 
is obligated to cause CONAFOR to comply with, for purposes of the Project (as 
well as compliance by CONAFOR with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Guarantee Agreement).  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under such 
contractual arrangements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 
 
Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions (relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans 
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) shall be 
carried out, or caused to be carried out, by the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.04 
(a) of the Guarantee Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall participate in the review referred to in 
Section 3.13 (c) of the Guarantee Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, the resources and expenditures in connection with the 
execution of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section, and the records and accounts for the Special 
Account, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
Page  47
generally accepted auditing standards and procedures, 
consistently applied, by independent and qualified auditors; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank each month certified statements of the 
Special Account; and 
 
(iv) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts as well as the audit thereof as the 
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Guarantor any information that may be required by the 
Guarantor to comply with the Guarantor's obligations under Section 3.05 (c) of 
the Guarantee Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) The 
Ley
Forestal
(Forestry Law; published in the Guarantor's 
Diario
Oficial
de
la
Federación
on December 22, 1992) shall have been, in whole 
or in part, amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in 
the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the carrying out of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Forestry Law's regulations, published in the Guarantor's Diario
Oficial
de
la
Federación
on February 21, 1994, shall have been, in whole or in 
part, amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the 
opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the carrying out of the Project. 
 
(c) 
The decree creating CONAFOR, published in the Guarantor’s 
Diario
Oficial
de
la
Federación
on April 4, 2001, and/or CONAFOR’s Organic 
Statute (Estatuto
Orgánico
), shall have been, in whole or in part, amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the 
Bank, materially and adversely the carrying out of the Project. 
Page  48
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that any event specified in 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 
 
Page  49
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to 
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) 
of the General Conditions, namely, that the contractual arrangements referred to 
in Section 3.01 of this Agreement have been entered into. 
 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the 
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that on behalf of each of 
the Borrower and the Guarantor, the contractual arrangements referred to in 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified, and 
executed and delivered, by the Borrower and the Guarantor and are legally 
binding upon the Borrower and the Guarantor in accordance with the terms of 
such contractual arrangements. 
 
Section 6.03. The date August 1, 1997 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Director
Internacional
of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Page  50
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
 
   248423 (MCI) or 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
     64145 (MCI) 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. 
 
Dirección Internacional 
 
Torre IV, piso 8 
 
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971 
 
01020 México, D.F. 
 
México 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
 
NAFIN 
    
 
 
NAFIME 
383-
1775765 
 
Mexico City 
 
 
Mexico City 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the 
day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki 
 
Regional Vice President 
 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
 
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. 
 
By /s/ José García Torres 
 Authorized 
Representative 
Page  51
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
 
     % of 
 
(Expressed in 
 
 Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods (except items 
1,000,000 
70%  
 
included in Categories (3) 
 
 
 
or (4) below and vehicles, but 
 
including aerial photographs) 
 
 
(2) Consultant 
services 
 
 
(except as included in 
 
Categories (3) and (4) below): 
 
(a) 
under Part A.2 of 
5,800,000 
100% of amount 
 
the Project 
 
disbursed by 
 
CONAFOR  
 
to Communities and 
 
Ejidos
(b) other 
5,000,000 
100% 
 
(3) 
Pilot Projects 
1,000,000 
100% of amounts 
 
disbursed by 
 
CONAFOR  
 
to Communities and 
 
Ejidos 
for Pilot 
 
Projects 
 
(4) Training 
2,200,000 
100% 
 
Page  52
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
 
     % of 
 
(Expressed in 
 
 Expenditures 
 
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(5) Unallocated 
0 
 
______________ 
 
TOTAL 15,000,000 
 
============ 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "training" includes only:  (a) 
fees of consultants employed as trainers; (b) reasonable travel, room, board and 
per
diem
expenditures incurred by trainees in connection with their training under 
Parts A and D of the Project; (c) course fees charged by academic institutions; and 
(d) training material preparation, acquisition, reproduction and distribution 
expenses not otherwise covered under this paragraph. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made:  (a) in respect of a Pilot Project unless the procedures, terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Section 3.10 of the Guarantee Agreement 
have been complied with for that Pilot Project; and (b) in respect of payments 
made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $1,500,000, 
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within the 
twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement but after March 1, 1996. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent (in the case of consulting firms) and less than 
$50,000 equivalent (in the case of individual consultants), as well as for 
expenditures for training items referred to in paragraph 2 (b), (c) and (d) of this 
Schedule, for goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract 
or per bid package and for Pilot Projects, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
Page  53
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project
 
The objectives of the Project are to:  (a) improve natural resource 
management and conservation by Community and Ejido
forestry resource owners 
in Mexico; and (b) increase the range of forestry-based income generating options 
available to such owners. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Assistance to Participating States’ Communities and Ejidos
1. 
Implementation of promotional activities to inform Communities and Ejidos in the 
Participating States of the support available to them under the Project and to evaluate their pine-
oak, tropical and/or 
other broadleaf
forestry resource management interests and needs. 
 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance to Communities and Ejidos in the Participating States in 
support of their pine-oak, tropical and/or 
other broadleaf
forestry resource management-related 
initiatives undertaken to, inter alia:  (a) prepare or upgrade Management Plans; (b) prepare 
forested area conservation plans; (c) address integrated forestry resource management and forestry 
research issues; and (d) increase the efficiency of their forestry enterprises. 
 
3. 
Provision of demand-driven training (through courses, workshops, 
seminars and two- or four-year scholarships), to members of Communities and of 
Ejidos in the Participating States, on pine-oak, tropical and/or 
other broadleaf
forestry resource management topics (including environmental, biodiversity and 
land use planning and boundary issues). 
 
4. 
Implementation, on a national or regional level, of Community/Ejido-to-
Community/Ejido workshops sponsored by the Communities and/or Ejidos to 
exchange information on forestry development and conservation activities. 
 
Part B
:
Capacity Strengthening Assistance to Private Service Providers
1. 
Provision of environmental, forestry resource management and related 
training (including biodiversity training), through two-week 
orientation/immersion workshops, to private providers of services to 
Communities and Ejidos
engaged in forestry activities, so as to make such 
providers eligible to provide technical assistance under Part A.2 of the Project. 
 
2. 
Implementation, through courses consisting of two-week workshops, of a 
post-graduate level continuing education program (in the same fields for which 
Page  54
training is provided under Part B.1 of the Project) for providers deemed eligible 
pursuant to Part B.1 of the Project so that they may maintain such eligibility. 
 
Part C
:
Promotion of Non-timber Forest Products
1. 
(a) Carrying out of diagnostic studies to create a comprehensive data base 
on the extent, management, production, use, conservation and trade of tradable or 
potentially tradable non-timber and non-traditional forest products in the 
Participating States; and (b) implementation of campaigns to promote interest in 
the carrying out of Pilot Projects. 
 
2. 
Carrying out of Pilot Projects by Communities and Ejidos
in the 
Participating States. 
 
3. 
Monitoring, evaluation, publication and other dissemination of the results 
of the Pilot Projects carried out under Part C.2 of the Project. 
 
Part D
:
Institutional Strengthening
1. 
Strengthening (through the provision of technical assistance, training and 
goods) of the SEMARNAT Oaxaca office's capacity to review, approve, 
supervise and audit Management Plans. 
 
2. 
(a) Strengthening (through the provision of technical assistance, training 
and goods) of the capacity of SEMARNAT and CONAFOR offices located in the 
Participating States to carry out their forestry responsibilities; and (b) 
strengthening (through the provision of technical assistance and training) of the 
capacity of the Secretariats to absorb forestry responsibilities, held by 
SEMARNAT and/or CONAFOR
,
which are potentially transferable to such 
Secretariats. 
 
3. 
Design, computerization, administration and dissemination of the 
SEMARNAT and/or CONAFOR Sistema
Nacional
de
Información
Forestal
(National Forestry Information System) and Registro
Nacional
Forestal
(National 
Forestry Registry). 
 
4. 
Provision of training (through courses, workshops, study tours, seminars 
and two-year scholarships) to CONAFOR forestry officials to upgrade their 
forestry, administrative and technology skills. 
 
5. 
Provision of equipment and administrative support to the PMT and the 
PITs to facilitate their role in Project management. 
 
Page  55
6. 
Carrying out of workshops and other preliminary activities in connection 
with the preparation of potential future pine-oak, tropical and/or 
other broadleaf
forest projects, for the States of Chihuahua, Durango, Michoacán, Jalisco and 
Guerrero, modeled on Parts A and B of the Project. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.  
Page  56
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule
 
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)
*
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
beginning November 15, 2002 
 
through May 15, 2012 
750,000 
 
___________________ 
 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  57
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Special Account
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and 
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i)  
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii)  
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan 
Page  58
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount 
as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. 
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account 
Page  59
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not 
so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments 
for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant  provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions. 
Page  60
LOAN NUMBER 4137-ME 
 
Guarantee Agreement
 
(Community Forestry Project) 
 
between 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 2, 1997 
(as amended on June 1, 2000 and December 18, 2003)
Page  61
LOAN NUMBER 4137-ME 
 
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated May 2, 1997,  between UNITED MEXICAN STATES  
(the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the 
Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist 
in the financing of the Project; and 
 
(B) 
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
the Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in the amount 
of fifteen million Dollars ($15,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the 
obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan and to undertake such other 
obligations as provided in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of 
the Borrower and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the 
Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
 
Page  62
ARTICLE II 
 
Guarantee; Provision of Funds 
 
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally 
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual 
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the 
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance of 
all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. The Guarantor shall provide, in a timely manner as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall cause CONAFOR to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate environmental, financial, technical and 
administrative standards and practices, as well as in accordance with the technical 
assistance financing criteria and periodically adjustable implementation schedule 
set forth in the Implementation Letter. 
 
(b) 
Throughout the course of Project implementation, the Guarantor 
shall: 
 
(i) 
cause CONAFOR to maintain a Project 
management team in 
CONAFOR’s headquarters, consisting 
of sufficient qualified staff to carry out general Project 
coordination, provide liaison with officials of the 
Participating States and provide procurement and forestry 
expertise in connection with the Project; 
 
(ii) 
cause CONAFOR to maintain a Project 
implementation team in each of the CONAFOR regional 
offices (gerencias
regionales
)
that have jurisdiction over a 
Participating State, consisting of sufficient qualified staff 
and/or consultants to carry out general Project coordination 
within the Participating States, promote the Project, provide 
Page  63
liaison with Communities and Ejidos
and provide 
administrative, training, procurement and biodiversity 
expertise in connection with the Project (of which the 
procurement and biodiversity expertise shall each be 
represented by a separate staff member and/or consultant in 
each such regional office); and 
 
(iii) 
maintain an advisory committee, consisting of 
selected SEMARNAT and CONAFOR officials satisfactory 
to the Bank, to ensure coordination of Project activities with 
other SEMARNAT and CONAFOR initiatives, evaluate 
Project progress and make recommendations for improved 
Project execution as necessary. 
 
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall enter into the contractual arrangements 
referred to in Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement.  Except as the Bank may 
otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of 
such contractual arrangements.  The Guarantor shall exercise its rights and carry 
out its obligations under such contractual arrangements in such a manner as to 
protect the interests of the Guarantor and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes 
of the Loan. 
 
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultant services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.04. (a) The Guarantor shall cause CONAFOR to carry out the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions (relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) with regard to the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
For purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, and without 
limitation thereto, the Guarantor shall cause CONAFOR to: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable 
to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six 
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Guarantor and the Bank, 
a
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
 
Page  64
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to 
exchange views with the Guarantor and CONAFOR on said 
plan. 
 
Section 3.05. (a) The Guarantor shall cause CONAFOR to maintain records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in connection with the 
execution of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Guarantor shall cause CONAFOR to: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and 
procedures consistently applied, by independent and 
qualified auditors; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but 
in any case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information 
concerning said records and accounts as well as the audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Guarantor 
shall cause CONAFOR to: 
 
(i) 
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank 
has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of 
the Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures; 
 
Page  65
(iii) 
enable the Bank's representatives to examine 
such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are 
included in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved 
in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals. 
 
(d) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made 
from the Special Account, the Guarantor shall provide, or cause CONAFOR to 
provide, to the Borrower any information that may be required by the Borrower to 
comply with the Borrower's obligations under Section 4.01 of the Loan Agreement. 
 
Section 3.06. With regard to Part A.2 of the Project, the Guarantor shall 
cause CONAFOR to: 
 
(a) 
have the PMT prepare and maintain an updated roster of technical 
assistance providers from the private sector, a set of standardized terms of reference 
for the types of technical assistance that may be provided by said providers and a 
standard contract to be entered into between said providers and Communities and 
Ejidos
,
all satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
have the PITs distribute to Communities and Ejidos
the roster, 
standard terms of reference and standard contract referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section;  
 
(c) 
subject to the Bank prior review stipulations contained in paragraph 
2
of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement with respect to consultant contracts, 
have the PITs accept standard contracts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
entered into by Communities or Ejidos
,
with technical assistance providers on the 
roster referred to in said paragraph (a), which contracts incorporate standard terms 
of reference also referred to in said paragraph (a); 
 
(d) 
have the PITs, through a disbursement mechanism satisfactory to the 
Bank, pay each of the technical assistance providers for such provider’s services, 
according to the terms of the standard contract referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, if:  (i) said provider's contract was accepted by the relevant PIT pursuant to 
paragraph (c) of this Section; (ii) the terms of reference incorporated in such 
contract are the standard ones referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section or are 
Page  66
otherwise approved by the Bank; and (iii) the relevant PIT has received a signed 
certification from the relevant Ejido
president or Community leader (comisariado
), 
as the case may be, that said provider has completed the work for which payment is 
sought; and 
 
(e) 
have the PITs actively solicit annual or more frequent evaluations of 
their participation in Part A.2 of the Project from Communities and Ejidos
.
Section 3.07. With regard to Part A.2 of the Project, the Guarantor shall 
cause CONAFOR to ensure that the provisions of Section I of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement are complied with. 
 
Section 3.08. With regard to Part A.3 of the Project, the Guarantor shall 
cause CONAFOR to ensure that: 
 
(a) 
to be eligible for a scholarship, members of a Community or of an 
Ejido
must have been nominated by their Community or Ejido
and accepted by a 
training institution for admission into such institution’s study program; 
 
(b) 
from among those eligible for scholarships pursuant to paragraph (a) 
of this Section, scholarships be awarded solely to those whose scholarship 
applications have been approved by a review panel which shall be in existence 
throughout Project implementation and shall consist of the head (delegado
)
of
the 
SEMARNAP
T
office in relevant Participating State, the head (gerente
regional
)
of
the CONAFOR regional office (gerencia
regional
)
for the relevant Participating 
State, the head (in the case of the State of Oaxaca) of the Forestry Technical School 
(Escuela
Técnica
Forestal
de
Santa
María
Atzompa
)
in Oaxaca and the head of the 
relevant Participating State’s Secretariat; and 
 
(c) 
the relevant PIT pays the relevant training institution in advance for 
each semester’s tuition, and pays the scholarship recipient in advance for each 
semester’s room and board. 
 
Section 3.09. With regard to Part B of the Project, the Guarantor shall cause 
CONAFOR to allow private providers of services to be eligible to participate in 
Part A.2 of the Project only if:  (a) such providers (or at least one member thereof if 
the provider is a firm) have successfully completed the orientation/immersion 
workshop referred to in Part B.1 of the Project and have successfully completed 
one course per year from among the courses offered in the continuing education 
program referred to in Part B.2 of the Project; and (b) such providers have not 
provided services under Part A.2 of the Project in a manner unsatisfactory to 
Communities or Ejidos
.
Page  67
Section 3.10. With regard to Part C of the Project, the Guarantor shall cause 
CONAFOR to provide nonreimbursable contributions to Communities and Ejidos
in a Participating State, in support of Pilot Projects, only if: 
 
(a) 
the diagnostic study referred to in Part C.1 (a) of the Project has 
been carried out for that Participating State and contains a list, satisfactory to the 
Bank, of forest products appropriate for potential productive development; 
 
(b) 
the forest product that is the subject of the Pilot Project is identified 
in the list referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section; and 
 
(c) 
the provisions of Section II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement are 
complied with. 
 
Section 3.11. With regard to Part D.3 of the Project, the Guarantor shall 
cause SEMARNAT and/or CONAFOR to ensure that:  (a) the computerized and 
disseminated National Forestry Information System referred to in said Part D.3 
include data (in the form of threatened species information sheets) for each of the 
species that occur in Mexican forests and are listed in the CITES or the NOM-059 
referred to in Section II, paragraph 3 (h) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (b) 
prior to or concurrent with the computerization and dissemination of the National 
Forestry Information System, such threatened species information sheets also be 
disseminated in a non-computerized format suitable for use in the field. 
 
Section 3.12. With regard to Part D.4 of the Project, the Guarantor shall 
cause CONAFOR to: 
 
(a) 
only award two-year scholarships to staff, of the CONAFOR 
regional offices (gerencias
regionales
)
for the Participating States, who have an 
undergraduate professional degree and who have had their scholarship applications 
approved by the advisory committee referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of this 
Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
not award more than a single two-year scholarship per student. 
 
Section 3.13. (a) Throughout the course of Project implementation, and 
without limitation of the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the 
Guarantor 
shall cause CONAFOR’s PMT to furnish to the Bank, by no later than 
each January 31 (starting no later than January 31, 1998), an annual progress report 
on implementation of the Project, in form satisfactory to the Bank and based on the 
implementation schedule and indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter.  
Each such report shall include, as a separate component thereof, the results of the 
Page  68
Communities' and Ejidos
'
own monitoring of those Parts of the Project in which 
they participate.  
 
(b) 
As part of each annual report referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the 
Guarantor shall cause CONAFOR’s PMT to present to the Bank an 
annual action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for Project implementation during the 
immediately subsequent twelve months.  The Guarantor shall cause CONAFOR to 
carry out each such action plan during the twelve months covered by the action 
plan, which plan may contain, inter
alia
,
the periodic adjustment to the 
implementation schedule and indicators referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement (as well as adjustments to the procurement plan referred to in Section I, 
Part D.1 of the Schedule to this Agreement). 
 
(c) 
The Guarantor shall cause CONAFOR to hold a review of Project 
implementation with the Bank and the Borrower during the month of September 
1999. Such review shall, based, inter
alia
,
on
the annual reports referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section: 
 
(i) 
examine the status of Project implementation; 
 
(ii) 
discuss the transfer of forestry responsibilities 
referred to in Part D.2 of the Project; 
 
(iii) 
examine the status of project preparation 
referred to in Part D.6 of the Project; 
 
(iv) 
examine whether to introduce cost recovery 
measures with respect to the training provided under Part B 
of the Project; and 
 
(v) 
examine whether to amend this Agreement 
and the Loan Agreement to extend Part C of the Project to 
States other than the Participating States. 
 
Section 3.14. The Guarantor shall ensure and cause CONAFOR to ensure that no 
Management Plans supported in any way under the Project (or other plans referred to in 
Part A of the Project or elsewhere in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement) are carried out 
unless such Management Plans and other plans are deemed, in writing by the Bank, to 
support independently certifiable sustainable forestry management and conservation 
oriented forestry and to otherwise comply with the Bank’s Operational Policy on Forestry 
(OP 4.36 of September 1993), as such Operational Policy may be amended from time to 
time. 
Page  69
ARTICLE IV 
 
Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses 
 
Section 4.01. The Director
General
de
Crédito
Público
of the Guarantor is 
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions. 
 
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Guarantor: 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Dirección General de Crédito Público 
 
Palacio Nacional, Colonia Centro
Insurgentes Sur 826, piso 9
Colonia del Valle
03100
06000
México, D.F. 
 
México 
 
Telex: 
 
1777313-SHOCME 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
   Telex: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
 
   248423 (MCI) 
 
Washington, D.C.   
    
     64145 (MCI) 
Page  70
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the 
day and year first above written. 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By /s/ Jesús Silva Herzog 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki 
 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Page  71
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Procurement and Consultants' Services
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Parts C, D and E of this Section, goods 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
 
(a) 
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 
2
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
Part C
:
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract or per 
bid package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines, using standard bidding documents satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
Page  72
Part D
:
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract or per bid 
package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national or international shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
 
Part E
:
Pilot Project Goods and Works
Goods and works for the carrying out of Pilot Projects may be procured by 
Communities or Ejidos
in accordance with procedures, including direct contracting, 
acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Part F
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods (other than those procured for Pilot Projects) 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply with respect to all goods procured under Part B of this 
Section and to the first five contracts or bid packages for goods procured under Part 
C
of this Section. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
1. 
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by 
the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based 
Page  73
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for 
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall 
have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract documents 
have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be 
used. 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of 
budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each and contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to:  
(a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; and (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above. 
Page  74
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Procedures, Terms and Conditions with Respect to 
Parts A.2 and C.2 of the Project 
 
Section I
.
With regard to Part A.2 of the Project: 
 
1. 
no technical assistance shall be provided to Communities and Ejidos
with 
respect to investments in timber harvesting or timber processing equipment, as well 
as with respect to any road-related civil works or engineering; 
 
2. 
no technical assistance shall be provided to Communities and Ejidos
not 
appearing on the list, in the Implementation Letter, of eligible Communities and 
Ejidos
(as such list may be updated from time to time by written notifications, 
satisfactory to the Bank, from the Guarantor to the Bank); 
 
3. 
no technical assistance shall be provided to Communities and Ejidos
that 
fail to formally evidence their membership’s support (through an acta
or similar 
communal instrument and a letter to CONAFOR) for receiving the technical 
assistance; 
 
4. 
Communities and Ejidos
receiving technical assistance shall have had some 
of their members successfully complete, within twelve months after said 
Communities and Ejidos
begin receiving such technical assistance, an 
environmental impact and conservation course under Part A.3 of the Project; and 
 
5. 
the relevant Community and Ejido
shall:  (a) pay at least 50%
30%
of the 
cost of the technical assistance if it operates a timber processing enterprise; (b) pay 
at least 35%
25%
of the cost of the technical assistance if it does not operate a 
timber processing enterprise but harvests timber; and (c) pay at least 20% of the 
cost of the technical assistance if it does not operate a timber processing enterprise, 
does not harvest timber, but sells standing timber (Communities or Ejidos
that lack 
a
Management Plan 
(approved as indicated in Section 1.02 (h) of the Loan 
Agreement)
and do not fall under subparagraphs (a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph 
need themselves pa
y
none
shall pay at least 10%
of the technical assistance cost). 
 
Section II
.
With regard to Part C.2 of the Project, the Guarantor shall cause 
CONAFOR to: 
 
Page  75
1. 
only provide nonreimbursable contributions to Communities and Ejidos
which have in place a  Management Plan 
(approved as indicated in Section 1.02 (h) 
of the Loan Agreement)
,
have an uncontested legal right to exploit the forest 
properties with respect to which the contributions are sought and have had their 
Pilot Project proposals approved after steps two or three (as applicable) of the 
review procedure set forth in paragraph 4 of this Section; 
 
2. 
not finance more than one Pilot Project per Community or Ejido
,
not 
contribute more than $18,700 equivalent to each Pilot Project; 
 
3. 
only finance Pilot Projects pursuant to a standard contract, satisfactory to the Bank, 
entered into between CONAFOR and the relevant Community or Ejido
,
which contract 
shall, inter
alia
:
(a) require the Community or Ejido
to contribute at least 25% of the cost, 
in cash or in kind, of the Pilot Project activities (which contribution shall include all value 
added tax included in the cost of such activities); (b) specify that the nonreimbursable 
contribution shall be disbursed to the Community or Ejido
in tranches over a period not to 
exceed two years, the first of which tranches shall be an advance and the rest of which shall 
be disbursed against confirmation by CONAFOR, by means of on-site evaluations, of the 
physical progress of the Pilot Project activities as measured according to benchmarks 
identified in the standard contract; (c) specify that procurement of the goods, works and 
services to be financed with the nonreimbursable contribution shall be governed by the 
provisions of Section I, Part E of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; (d) specify that the 
Community or Ejido
shall take all action necessary to facilitate Guarantor compliance with 
the terms of Sections 3.04 (a) and 3.05 of this Agreement in connection with the Pilot 
Project in question; (e) preclude the use of the nonreimbursable contribution to compensate 
the Community or Ejido
for labor provided by their members; (f) preclude the carrying out, 
as part of the Pilot Project, of activities relating to, or in preparation for, road construction; 
(g) preclude the purchase, as part of the Pilot Project, of timber harvesting equipment; and 
(h) preclude the carrying out, as part of the Pilot Project, of activities relating to, or in 
preparation for, exploitation of any plant or animal species listed in the Convention on 
International Trade in Endangered Species of Fauna and Flora (CITES) or in the 
Guarantor’s list of threatened species (Norma
Oficial
Mexicana
NOM-059), except that 
such activities may be carried out as part of the Pilot Project, with the prior approval of the 
Bank, and if the individual plant or animal specimens in question: 
 
(i)  are of a species not listed in CITES Appendix I or qualify as part of CITES 
Appendix II pursuant to CITES Article VII (4); 
 
(ii) qualify for the issuance of certificates pursuant to CITES Article VII (5) and are 
bred or propagated from parent specimens that also qualify for the issuance of such 
certificates; 
 
(iii) are to be placed in trade or otherwise disposed of in a manner specifically 
approved by INE and consistent with the terms of CITES and of Mexican law; and 
 
Page  76
(iv)  if of a species listed in Norma
Oficial
Mexicana
NOM-059 but not in a CITES 
Appendix, have been bred or propagated, and are to be placed in trade or otherwise 
disposed of, in a manner specifically approved by INE and consistent with the 
terms of Mexican law; 
 
4. 
subject Pilot Project proposals submitted by Communities or Ejidos
to a 
two- or three-step review process whereby:  (a) in step one, the proposals are 
screened by the relevant Participating State's review panel consisting of the head 
(delegado
)
of
the SEMARNAT office in that Participating State, the head
of that 
Participa
ting State's Secretariat
and the head (gerente
regional
)
of CONAFOR’s 
regional office (gerencia
regional
)
for that Participating State; (b) in step two, the 
proposals approved in step one undergo a final screening by a federal review panel 
consisting of the SEMARNAT environmental protection subsecretary (sub-
secretario
de
gestión
para
la
protección
ambiental
), the CONAFOR director general 
(director
general
)
and the president of CONABIO; and (c) in step three (only 
applicable to the first ten Pilot Projects to be financed under the Project), the 
proposals are reviewed and approved by the Bank; and 
 
5. 
cause independent physical monitoring and financial auditing of activities in 
each Participating State on an annual basis (and, as part of such monitoring, 
actively solicit annual or more frequent evaluations of their participation in Part C 
of the Project from Communities and Ejidos
).
 
