Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4137-ME
Loan Agreement
(Community Forestry Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
Dated May 2, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4137-ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 2, 1997 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having 
been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 
2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement, except that Section 6.03 
of the General Conditions is modified to read:  
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the right of the Borrower 
to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project's costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled.".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Community" means the population and land tenancy unit (comunidad), with 
its own legal personality, governed by Title III, Chapter V of the Guarantor's 
Agrarian Law (Ley Agraria), published in the Guarantor's Official Gazette (Diario 
Oficial de la Federación) on February 26, 1992; 
(b)
"CONABIO" means the Guarantor's National Biodiversity Commission 
(Comisión Nacional para el Conocimiento y Uso de la Biodiversidad);
(c)
"COPLADE" means the State Committee for Planning and Development (Comité 
de Planificación y Desarrollo Estatal) of each of the Participating States (as 
hereinafter defined);
(d)
"Ejido" means the population and land tenancy unit, with its own legal 
personality, governed by Title III, Chapters I-IV of the Guarantor's Agrarian Law (Ley 
Agraria), published in the Guarantor's Official Gazette (Diario Oficial de la 
Federación) on February 26, 1992;
(e)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith, from the 
Guarantor to the Bank, with respect to the implementation schedule and indicators for 
the Project;
(f)
"Management Plan" means a forestry management program (programa de manejo 
forestal) referred to in Article 12 of the Guarantor's Forestry Law cited in Section 
5.01 (a) of this Agreement;
(g)
"Participating States" means the Mexican States of Chihuahua, Durango, 
Guerrero, Jalisco, Michoacán and Oaxaca;
(h)
"Pilot Projects" means projects, carried out by Communities and Ejidos 
and financed with nonreimbursable contributions made by SEMARNAP (as hereinafter 
defined) to such Communities and Ejidos, to implement economically viable proposals, 
consistent with such Communities’ and Ejidos’ SEMARNAP-approved Management Plans, for 
the development and management of tradable or potentially tradable non-timber and 
Page  3
non-traditional forest products;
(i)
"PIT" means the Project implementation team referred to in Section 3.01 
(b) (ii) of the Guarantee Agreement;
(j)
"PMT" means the Project management team referred to in Section 3.01 (b) 
(i) of the Guarantee Agreement;
(k)
"Secretariat" means the Forestry Secretariat, or its equivalent, of the 
executive branch of the government of a Participating State;
(l)
"SEDAF" means the Forestry Secretariat (Secretaría de Desarrollo 
Agropecuario y Forestal) of the executive branch of the government of the State of 
Oaxaca;
(m)
"SEMARNAP" means the Guarantor's Natural Resources, Environment and 
Fisheries Secretariat (Secretaría de Medio Ambiente, Recursos Naturales y Pesca); and
(n)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agree\1fment, an amount equal to fifteen 
million Dollars ($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for:  (i) amounts 
paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Guarantor on account of 
expenditures incurred by a Community or Ejido to meet the reasonable cost of goods, 
works and services required to carry out Pilot Projects under Part C.2 of the Project 
and in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and (ii) 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project (other than Part 
C.2 of the Project) described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de México on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor 
of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
Page  4
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:  (A) one 
half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of LIBOR Base Rate 
and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination 
thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of 
the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable May 15 and November 15 
in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into contractual arrangements with the 
Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank, providing, inter alia, for: (a) the transfer to 
the Guarantor of the proceeds of the Loan; and (b) the transfer by the Guarantor to 
the Borrower of such funds as the Borrower shall be required to pay to the Bank on 
account of principal, interest and other charges on the Loan.  Except as the Bank may 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of such 
contractual arrangements. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under such 
contractual arrangements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) shall be carried out, or caused 
to be carried out, by the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.04 (a) of the Guarantee 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall participate in the review referred to in 
Section 3.13 (c) of the Guarantee Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
Page  5
and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the resources and expenditures in connection with the execution of the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
and the records and accounts for the Special Account, for 
each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with generally accepted 
auditing standards and 
procedures, consistently applied, by 
independent and qualified auditors;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested;
(iii)
furnish to the Bank each month certified statements of the Special 
Account; and
(iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Guarantor any information that may be required by the Guarantor to 
comply with the Guarantor's obligations under Section 3.05 (c) of the Guarantee 
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Ley Forestal (Forestry Law; published in the Guarantor's Diario 
Oficial de la Federación on December 22, 1992) shall have been, in whole or in part, 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of 
the Bank, materially and adversely the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
The Forestry Law's regulations, published in the Guarantor's Diario 
Oficial de la Federación on February 21, 1994, shall have been, in whole or in part, 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of 
the Bank, materially and adversely the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 
3.01 of this Agreement have been entered into.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that on behalf of each of the 
Borrower and the Guarantor, the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 
of this Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified, and executed and delivered, 
by the Borrower and the Guarantor and are legally binding upon the Borrower and the 
Guarantor in accordance with the terms of such contractual arrangements.
Page  6
Section 6.03. The date August 1, 1997 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Director Internacional of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
     Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Dirección Internacional
Torre IV, piso 8
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971
01020 México, D.F.
México
Cable address:
Telex:
NAFIN
NAFIME 383-1775765
Mexico City
Mexico City
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
By /s/ José García Torres
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Page  7
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
     % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
               Category
     Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods (except items
1,000,000
70%
included in Categories (3)
or (4) below and vehicles, but
including aerial photographs)
(2)
Consultant services
(except as included in
Categories (3) and (4) below):
(a)
under Part A.2 of
3,600,000
100% of amount
the Project
disbursed by
SEMARNAP to
Communities and
Ejidos
(b)
other
3,000,000
100%
(3)
Pilot Projects
1,500,000
100% of amounts
disbursed by
SEMARNAP to
Communities and
Ejidos for Pilot
Projects
(4)
Training
4,200,000
100%
(5)
Unallocated
1,700,000
      __________
TOTAL
      15,000,000
             ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "training" includes only: (a) fees 
of consultants employed as trainers; (b) reasonable travel, room, board and per diem 
expenditures incurred by trainees in connection with their training under Parts A and 
D of the Project; (c) course fees charged by academic institutions; and (d) training 
material preparation, acquisition, reproduction and distribution expenses not 
otherwise covered under this paragraph.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:  (a) in respect of a Pilot Project unless the procedures, terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in Section 3.10 of the Guarantee Agreement have been complied 
with for that Pilot Project; and (b) in respect of payments made for expenditures 
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount 
not exceeding the equivalent of $1,500,000, may be made on account of payments made 
for expenditures incurred within the twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement 
but after March 1, 1996.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent (in the case of consulting firms) and less than $50,000 equivalent 
(in the case of individual consultants), as well as for expenditures for training 
items referred to in paragraph 2 (b), (c) and (d) of this Schedule, for goods 
estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract or per bid package and 
for Pilot Projects, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
Page  8
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to:  (a) improve natural resource management 
and conservation by Community and Ejido forestry resource owners in Mexico; and (b) 
increase the range of forestry-based income generating options available to such 
owners.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Assistance to Oaxaca Communities and Ejidos
1.
Implementation of promotional activities to inform Communities and Ejidos in the 
State of Oaxaca of the support available to them under the Project and to evaluate 
their pine-oak forestry resource management interests and needs.
2.
Provision of technical assistance to Communities and Ejidos in the State of 
Oaxaca in support of their pine-oak forestry resource management-related initiatives 
undertaken to, inter alia:  (a) prepare or upgrade Management Plans; (b) prepare 
forested area conservation plans; (c) address integrated forestry resource management 
and forestry research issues; and (d) increase the efficiency of their forestry 
enterprises.
3.
Provision of demand-driven training (through courses, workshops, seminars and 
two- or four-year scholarships), to members of Communities and of Ejidos in the State 
of Oaxaca, on pine-oak forestry resource management topics (including environmental, 
biodiversity and land use planning and boundary issues).
4.
Implementation, on a national or regional level, of 
Community/Ejido-to-Community/Ejido workshops sponsored by the Communities and/or 
Ejidos to exchange information on forestry development and conservation activities.
Part B:
Capacity Strengthening Assistance to Private Service Providers
1.
Provision of environmental, forestry resource management and related training 
(including biodiversity training), through two-week orientation/immersion workshops, 
to private providers of services to Communities and Ejidos engaged in forestry 
activities, so as to make such providers eligible to provide technical assistance 
under Part A.2 of the Project.
2.
Implementation, through courses consisting of two-week workshops, of a 
post-graduate level continuing education program (in the same fields for which 
training is provided under Part B.1 of the Project) for providers deemed eligible 
pursuant to Part B.1 of the Project so that they may maintain such eligibility.
Part C:
Promotion of Non-timber Forest Products
1.
(a) Carrying out of diagnostic studies to create a comprehensive data base on 
the extent, management, production, use, conservation and trade of tradable or 
potentially tradable non-timber and non-traditional forest products in the 
Participating States; and (b) implementation of campaigns to promote interest in the 
carrying out of Pilot Projects.
2.
Carrying out of Pilot Projects by Communities and Ejidos in the Participating 
States.
3.
Monitoring, evaluation, publication and other dissemination of the results of 
the Pilot Projects carried out under Part C.2 of the Project.
Part D:
Institutional Strengthening
1.
Strengthening (through the provision of technical assistance, training and 
Page  9
goods) of the SEMARNAP Oaxaca office's capacity to review, approve, supervise and 
audit Management Plans.
2.
(a) Strengthening (through the provision of technical assistance, training and 
goods) of the capacity of SEMARNAP offices located in the Participating States to 
carry out their forestry responsibilities; and (b) strengthening (through the 
provision of technical assistance and training) of the capacity of the Secretariats to 
absorb forestry responsibilities, held by SEMARNAP, which are potentially transferable 
to such Secretariats.
3.
Design, computerization, administration and dissemination of the SEMARNAP 
Sistema Nacional de Información Forestal (National Forestry Information System) and 
Registro Nacional Forestal (National Forestry Registry).
4.
Provision of training (through courses, workshops, study tours, seminars and 
two-year scholarships) to SEMARNAP forestry officials to upgrade their forestry, 
administrative and technology skills.
5.
Provision of equipment and administrative support to the PMT and the PIT to 
facilitate their role in Project management.
6.
Carrying out of workshops and other preliminary activities in connection with 
the preparation of potential future pine-oak forest projects, for the States of 
Chihuahua, Durango, Michoacán, Jalisco and Guerrero, modeled on Parts A and B of the 
Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001. 
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning November 15, 2002
through May 15, 2012
750,000
___________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
Page  10
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to para\1fgraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
Page  11
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant  provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
