Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4137-ME
Guarantee Agreement
(Community Forestry Project)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 2, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4137-ME
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 2, 1997,  between UNITED MEXICAN STATES  (the Guarantor) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower), having 
been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 
2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project; and
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in the amount of 
fifteen million Dollars ($15,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the 
obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan and to undertake such other 
obligations as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter\1fing into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the Loan 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally 
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment 
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if 
any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance of all the other 
obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. The Guarantor shall provide, in a timely manner as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project through SEMARNAP, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate environmental, financial, technical and administrative 
standards and practices, as well as in accordance with the technical assistance 
financing criteria and periodically adjustable implementation schedule set forth in 
the Implementation Letter.
(b)
Throughout the course of Project implementation, the Guarantor shall 
maintain:
(i)
through SEMARNAP, a Project management team in the SEMARNAP 
General Forestry 
Directorate (Dirección General Forestal) in Mexico 
City, consisting of 
sufficient qualified staff to carry out 
general Project coordination, provide 
liaison with officials of the 
State of Oaxaca and provide procurement and 
forestry expertise 
in connection with the Project;
(ii)
through SEMARNAP, a Project implementation team in the SEMARNAP 
office in the 
State of Oaxaca, consisting of sufficient qualified 
staff and/or consultants 
to carry out general Project coordination 
within the State of Oaxaca, promote 
the Project, provide liaison with 
Communities and Ejidos and provide 
administrative, training, 
procurement and biodiversity expertise in connection 
with the Project (of 
which the procurement and biodiversity expertise shall 
each be 
represented by a separate staff member and/or consultant);
(iii)
an advisory committee, consisting of selected SEMARNAP director 
generals, to 
ensure coordination of Project activities with other 
SEMARNAP initiatives, 
evaluate Project progress and make 
recommendations for improved Project 
execution as necessary; 
and
(iv)
a coordinating commission for the State of Oaxaca, consisting of a 
COPLADE 
technical advisor, the SEDAF secretary (secretario) 
and the head (delegado) of 
the SEMARNAP office in the State of 
Oaxaca, to ensure coordination of Project 
activities in the State of 
Oaxaca and to evaluate Project progress in the 
State of 
Oaxaca.
Page  3
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall enter into the contractual arrangements 
referred to in Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement.  Except as the Bank may otherwise 
agree, the Guarantor shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of such 
contractual arrangements.  The Guarantor shall exercise its rights under such 
contractual arrangements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Guarantor 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultant services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) The Guarantor shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions (relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) with regard to the 
Project.
(b)
For purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, and without 
limitation thereto, the Guarantor shall:
(i)
prepare or cause to be prepared, on the basis of guidelines 
acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six 
months after the Closing Date 
or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Guarantor and 
the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Guarantor 
on said plan.
Section 3.05. (a) The Guarantor shall, through SEMARNAP, maintain records and 
separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, 
the operations, resources and expenditures in connection with the execution of the 
Project.
(b)
The Guarantor shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with generally 
accepted auditing 
standards and procedures consistently applied, 
by independent and qualified 
auditors;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Guarantor shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account or 
payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
Page  4
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
(d)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made from the 
Special Account, the Guarantor shall provide to the Borrower any information that may 
be required by the Borrower to comply with the Borrower's obligations under Section 
4.01 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.06. With regard to Part A.2 of the Project, the Guarantor, through 
SEMARNAP, shall:
(a)
have the PMT prepare and maintain an updated roster of technical 
assistance providers from the private sector, a set of standardized terms of reference 
for the types of technical assistance that may be provided by said providers and a 
standard contract to be entered into between said providers and Communities and 
Ejidos, all satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
have the PIT distribute to Communities and Ejidos the roster, standard 
terms of reference and standard contract referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section; 
(c)
subject to the Bank prior review stipulations contained in paragraph 2 of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement with respect to consultant contracts, have 
the PIT accept standard contracts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section entered 
into by Communities or Ejidos, with technical assistance providers on the roster 
referred to in said paragraph (a), which contracts incorporate standard terms of 
reference also referred to in said paragraph (a);
(d)
have the PIT, through a disbursement mechanism satisfactory to the Bank, 
pay each of the technical assistance providers for such provider’s services, according 
to the terms of the standard contract referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
if:  (i) said provider's contract was accepted by the PIT pursuant to paragraph (c) of 
this Section; (ii) the terms of reference incorporated in such contract are the 
standard ones referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section or are otherwise approved 
by the Bank; and (iii) the PIT has received a signed certification from the relevant 
Ejido president or Community leader (comisariado), as the case may be, that said 
provider has completed the work for which payment is sought; and
(e)
have the PIT actively solicit annual or more frequent evaluations of 
their participation in Part A.2 of the Project from Communities and Ejidos.
Section 3.07. With regard to Part A.2 of the Project, the Guarantor, through 
SEMARNAP, shall ensure that the provisions of Section I of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement are complied with.
Section 3.08. With regard to Part A.3 of the Project, the Guarantor, through 
SEMARNAP, shall ensure that:
(a)
to be eligible for a scholarship, members of a Community or of an Ejido 
must have been nominated by their Community or Ejido and accepted by a training 
institution for admission into such institution’s study program;
(b)
from among those eligible for scholarships pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, scholarships be awarded solely to those whose scholarship applications 
have been approved by a review panel which shall be in existence throughout Project 
implementation and shall consist of the head (delegado) of the SEMARNAP office in the 
State of Oaxaca, the natural resources and planning subdelegates (sub-delegados) of 
said office, the head of the Forestry Technical School (Escuela Técnica Forestal de 
Santa María Atzompa) in Oaxaca and the Secretary (Secretario) of SEDAF; and
(c)
the PIT pays the relevant training institution in advance for each 
semester’s tuition, and pays the scholarship recipient in advance for each semester’s 
room and board.
Page  5
Section 3.09. With regard to Part B of the Project, the Guarantor, through 
SEMARNAP, shall allow private providers of services to be eligible to participate in 
Part A.2 of the Project only if:  (a) such providers (or at least one member thereof 
if the provider is a firm) have successfully completed the orientation/immersion 
workshop referred to in Part B.1 of the Project and have successfully completed one 
course per year from among the courses offered in the continuing education program 
referred to in Part B.2 of the Project; and (b) such providers have not provided 
services under Part A.2 of the Project in a manner unsatisfactory to Communities or 
Ejidos.
Section 3.10. With regard to Part C of the Project, the Guarantor, through 
SEMARNAP, shall provide nonreimbursable contributions to Communities and Ejidos in a 
Participating State, in support of Pilot Projects, only if:
(a)
the diagnostic study referred to in Part C.1 (a) of the Project has been 
carried out for that Participating State and contains a list, satisfactory to the 
Bank, of forest products appropriate for potential productive development;
(b)
the forest product that is the subject of the Pilot Project is identified 
in the list referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section; and
(c)
the provisions of Section II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement are complied 
with.
Section 3.11. With regard to Part D.3 of the Project, the Guarantor, through 
SEMARNAP, shall ensure that:  (a) the computerized and disseminated National Forestry 
Information System referred to in said Part D.3 include data (in the form of 
threatened species information sheets) for each of the species that occur in Mexican 
forests and are listed in the CITES or the NOM-059 referred to in Section 3.10 (d) 
(vii) of this Agreement; and (b) prior to or concurrent with the computerization and 
dissemination of the National Forestry Information System, such threatened species 
information sheets also be disseminated in a non-computerized format suitable for use 
in the field.
Section 3.12. With regard to Part D.4 of the Project, the Guarantor, through 
SEMARNAP, shall:
(a)
only award two-year scholarships to staff, of the SEMARNAP natural 
resources subsecretariat (sub-secretaría de recursos naturales) or of the SEMARNAP 
offices in the Participating States, who have an undergraduate professional degree and 
who have had their scholarship applications approved by the advisory committee 
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of this Agreement; and
(b)
not award more than a single two-year scholarship per student.
Section 3.13. (a) Throughout the course of Project implementation, and without 
limitation of the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Guarantor 
(through PMT) shall furnish to the Bank, by no later than each January 31 (starting no 
later than January 31, 1998), an annual progress report on implementation of the 
Project, in form satisfactory to the Bank and based on the implementation schedule and 
indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter.  Each such report shall include, as 
a separate component thereof, the results of the Communities' and Ejidos' own 
monitoring of those Parts of the Project in which they participate. 
(b)
As part of each annual report referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Guarantor, through PMT, shall present to the Bank an annual action plan, 
satisfactory to the Bank, for Project implementation during the immediately subsequent 
twelve months.  Each such action plan shall be carried out by SEMARNAP during the 
twelve months covered by the action plan and may contain, inter alia, the periodic 
adjustment to the implementation schedule and indicators referred to in Section 3.01 
(a) of this Agreement (as well as adjustments to the procurement plan referred to in 
Section I, Part D.1 of the Schedule to this Agreement).
(c)
The Guarantor, through SEMARNAP, shall hold a review of Project 
implementation with the Bank and the Borrower during the month of September 1999. Such 
review shall, based, inter alia, on the annual reports referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section:
Page  6
(i)
examine the status of Project implementation, with particular 
emphasis on 
implementation in the State of Oaxaca;
(ii)
discuss the transfer of forestry responsibilities referred to in 
Part D.2 of 
the Project;
(iii)
examine the status of project preparation referred to in Part D.6 
of the 
Project;
(iv)
examine whether to introduce cost recovery measures with respect 
to the 
training provided under Part B of the Project; and
(v)
examine whether to amend this Agreement and the Loan Agreement to 
extend Part 
C of the Project to States other than the Participating 
States.
ARTICLE IV
Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Director General de Crédito Público of the Guarantor is 
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Dirección General de Crédito Público
Insurgentes Sur 826, piso 9
Colonia del Valle
03100 México, D.F.
México
Telex:
1777313-SHOCME
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
     INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
     Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Jesús Silva Herzog
Authorized Representative
Page  7
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Parts C, D and E of this Section, goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract or per bid 
package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines, using standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract or per bid 
package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national or international shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part E:
Pilot Project Goods and Works
Goods and works for the carrying out of Pilot Projects may be procured by 
Communities or Ejidos in accordance with procedures, including direct contracting, 
acceptable to the Bank.
Part F:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Page  8
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods (other than those procured for Pilot Projects) 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply with respect to all goods procured under Part B of this Section and to the 
first five contracts or bid packages for goods procured under Part C of this Section.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other 
standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each and contracts for the employment 
of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to:  (a) the terms of 
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; and (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Procedures, Terms and Conditions with Respect 
to Parts A.2 and C.2 of the Project
Section I.
With regard to Part A.2 of the Project:
1.
no technical assistance shall be provided to Communities and Ejidos with respect 
to investments in timber harvesting or timber processing equipment, as well as with 
respect to any road-related civil works or engineering;
2.
no technical assistance shall be provided to Communities and Ejidos not 
appearing on the list, in the Implementation Letter, of eligible Communities and 
Ejidos;
3.
no technical assistance shall be provided to Communities and Ejidos that fail to 
formally evidence their membership’s support (through an acta or similar communal 
instrument and a letter to SEMARNAP) for receiving the technical assistance;
4.
Communities and Ejidos receiving technical assistance shall have had some of 
their members successfully complete, within twelve months after said Communities and 
Ejidos begin receiving such technical assistance, an environmental impact and 
conservation course under Part A.3 of the Project; and
Page  9
5.
the relevant Community and Ejido shall:  (a) pay at least 50% of the cost of the 
technical assistance if it operates a timber processing enterprise; (b) pay at least 
35% of the cost of the technical assistance if it does not operate a timber processing 
enterprise but harvests timber; and (c) pay at least 20% of the cost of the technical 
assistance if it does not operate a timber processing enterprise, does not harvest 
timber, but sells standing timber (Communities or Ejidos that lack a SEMARNAP-approved 
Management Plan and do not fall under subparagraphs (a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph 
need themselves pay none of the technical assistance cost).
Section II.
With regard to Part C.2 of the Project, the Guarantor, through SEMARNAP, shall:
1.
only provide nonreimbursable contributions to Communities and Ejidos which have 
in place a SEMARNAP-approved Management Plan, have an uncontested legal right to 
exploit the forest properties with respect to which the contributions are sought and 
have had their Pilot Project proposals approved after steps two or three (as 
applicable) of the review procedure set forth in paragraph 4 of this Section;
2.
not finance more than one Pilot Project per Community or Ejido, not contribute 
more than $15,000 equivalent to each Pilot Project, not finance more than one Pilot 
Project per year per Participating State with respect to the same non-timber or 
non-traditional forest product (with a maximum allowable limit during the course of 
the Project of three Pilot Projects per Participating State per product);
3.
only finance Pilot Projects pursuant to a standard contract, satisfactory to the 
Bank, entered into between the Guarantor, through SEMARNAP, and the relevant Community 
or Ejido, which contract shall, inter alia:  (a) require the Community or Ejido to 
contribute at least 25% of the cost, in cash or in kind, of the Pilot Project 
activities (which contribution shall include all value added tax included in the cost 
of such activities); (b) specify that the nonreimbursable contribution shall be 
disbursed to the Community or Ejido in tranches over a period not to exceed two years, 
the first of which tranches shall be an advance and the rest of which shall be 
disbursed against confirmation by SEMARNAP, by means of on-site evaluations, of the 
physical progress of the Pilot Project activities as measured according to benchmarks 
identified in the standard contract; (c) specify that procurement of the goods, works 
and services to be financed with the nonreimbursable contribution shall be governed by 
the provisions of Section I, Part E of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; (d) specify that 
the Community or Ejido shall take all action necessary to facilitate Guarantor 
compliance with the terms of Sections 3.04 (a) and 3.05 of this Agreement in 
connection with the Pilot Project in question; (e) preclude the use of the 
nonreimbursable contribution to compensate the Community or Ejido for labor provided 
by their members; (f) preclude the carrying out, as part of the Pilot Project, of 
activities relating to, or in preparation for, road construction; (g) preclude the 
purchase, as part of the Pilot Project, of timber harvesting equipment; and (h) 
preclude the carrying out, as part of the Pilot Project, of activities relating to, or 
in preparation for, exploitation of any plant or animal species listed in the 
Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Fauna and Flora (CITES) or 
in the Guarantor’s list of threatened species (Norma Oficial Mexicana NOM-059);
4.
subject Pilot Project proposals submitted by Communities or Ejidos to a two- or 
three-step review process whereby:  (a) in step one, the proposals are screened by the 
relevant Participating State's review panel consisting of the head (delegado) of the 
SEMARNAP office in that Participating State, the head (secretario) of that 
Participating State's Secretariat and a representative of the COPLADE for that 
Participating State; (b) in step two, the proposals approved in step one undergo a 
final screening by a federal review panel consisting of the SEMARNAP natural resources 
subsecretary (sub-secretario de recursos naturales), the SEMARNAP forestry director 
general (director general forestal) and the president of CONABIO; and (c) in step 
three (only applicable to the first ten Pilot Projects to be financed under the 
Project), the proposals are reviewed and approved by the Bank; and
5.
cause independent physical monitoring and financial auditing of activities in 
each Participating State on an annual basis (and, as part of such monitoring, actively 
solicit annual or more frequent evaluations of their participation in Part C of the 
Project from Communities and Ejidos).
Page  10
