Page  1
June 1, 2000 
Mr. Roberto Casillas Contreras Medellín 
Director 
Internacional Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.  
Torre IV, piso 8 Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971 
01020 México, D.F. México
Mr. Carlos García Moreno 
Director General de Crédito Público 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Insurgentes Sur 826, piso 9 03100  
México, D.F. México
Re:
Loan 4137-ME (Community Forestry Project)  Amendment to the Loan 
and Guarantee 
Agreements
Dear Sirs: 
We refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) and Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower), as well as to 
the Guarantee Agreement between the United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the 
Bank, and the Implementation Letter from the Guarantor to the Bank, all dated May 2, 
1997, with respect to the above-captioned Project.  We are pleased to inform you of 
our agreement to amend said Loan Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement as follows:
IMPLEMENTATION LETTER
1.
(a)
Attachment 1 of the Implementation Letter is hereby amended to read in 
its entirety as set forth in Attachment 1 to the Annex of this amendment letter.
(b)
Attachment 2 of the Implementation Letter is hereby amended by inserting 
at the end thereof the tables set forth in Attachment 2 of the Annex to this amendment 
letter.
(c)
Attachment 3 of the Implementation Letter is hereby amended by replacing 
the Performance Monitoring Indicators table therein with the table set forth in 
Attachment 3 of the Annex to this amendment letter.
LOAN AGREEMENT
2.
In Part A of the Project, as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, the 
terms “Oaxaca” and “State of Oaxaca” are replaced with the term “Participating 
States”.  Therefore, such Part A shall read, in its entirety, as follows:
“Part A:
Assistance to Participating States’ Communities and Ejidos
1.
Implementation of promotional activities to inform Communities and Ejidos 
in the 
Participating States of the support available to them under the 
Project and to evaluate 
their pine-oak forestry resource management interests 
and needs.
2.
Provision of technical assistance to Communities and Ejidos in the 
Participating 
States in support of their pine-oak forestry resource 
management-related initiatives 
undertaken to, inter alia:  (a) prepare or 
upgrade Management Plans; (b) prepare forested 
area conservation plans; (c) 
address integrated forestry resource management and forestry 
research issues; and 
(d) increase the efficiency of their forestry enterprises.
3.
Provision of demand-driven training (through courses, workshops, seminars 
and two- or 
four-year scholarships), to members of Communities and of Ejidos in the 
Participating 
States, on pine-oak forestry resource management topics 
(including environmental, 
biodiversity and land use planning and 
boundary issues).
Page  2
4.
Implementation, on a national or regional level, of 
Community/Ejido-to-Community/Ejido workshops sponsored by the Communities 
and/or Ejidos to 
exchange information on forestry development and conservation 
activities.”
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
3.
Section I, paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to the Guarantee Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:  “no technical assistance shall be provided to Communities and Ejidos 
not appearing on the list, in the Implementation Letter, of eligible Communities and 
Ejidos (as such list may be updated from time to time by written notifications, 
satisfactory to the Bank, from the Guarantor to the Bank);”.
4.
Section II, paragraph 3 (h) of Schedule 2 to the Guarantee Agreement is amended 
to read as follows:
“(h) preclude the carrying out, as part of the Pilot Project, of 
activities relating 
to, or in preparation for, exploitation of any plant or 
animal species listed in the 
Convention on International Trade in 
Endangered Species of Fauna and Flora (CITES) or in the 
Guarantor’s list of 
threatened species (Norma Oficial Mexicana NOM-059), except that such 
activities 
may be carried out as part of the Pilot Project, with the prior approval of the 
Bank, and if the individual plant or animal specimens in question:
(i)
are of a species not listed in CITES Appendix I or qualify as part 
of CITES 
Appendix II pursuant to CITES Article VII (4);
(ii)
qualify for the issuance of certificates pursuant to CITES Article 
VII (5) and 
are bred or propagated from parent specimens that also 
qualify for the 
issuance of such certificates;
(iii)
are to be placed in trade or otherwise disposed of in a manner 
specifically 
approved by INE and consistent with the terms of CITES and 
of Mexican law; and
(iv)
if of a species listed in Norma Oficial Mexicana NOM-059 but not 
in a CITES 
Appendix, have been bred or propagated, and are to be placed 
in trade or 
otherwise disposed of, in a manner specifically 
approved by INE and consistent 
with the terms of Mexican law.”
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
the three originals of this letter in the space provided below, and returning one to 
us.  This amendment shall enter into effect as of its date first above written, upon 
receipt by the Bank of one original of this letter signed by you.
  Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade 
Director 
Mexico Country Department 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED: 
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Roberto Casillas Contreras Medellín
By /s/ Carlos García Moreno
Authorized Representative
       Authorized Representative
Date:
June 1, 2000
 
Date:
June 1, 2000
Page  3
