Report No. PID10515
Project Name                     Turkey-Social Risk Mitigation Project (@)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Primary Education; Primary Health;
Including Reproductive Health; Chi;
Social Assistance
Project ID                       TRPE74408
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY
Implementing Agency
Address SOCIAL SOLIDARITY FUND (SYDTF)
Address: Karanfil Sokak No. 67, Bakanliklar,
Ankara, Turkey
Contact Person: Yadigar Gokalp, Project
Coordinator
Tel: 0-312-424 0701
Fax: 0-312-424 0704
Email: yadigar@mailcity.com
SOCIAL SERVICES AND CHILD PROTECTION
ORGANIZATION (SHCEK)
Address: Anafartalar Caddesi No. 70, Ulus,
Ankara, Turkey
Contact Person: Mehmet Ozdal, Director General
Tel: 0-312-310 3210
Fax: 0-312-312 2880
Email: webmail@dediknet.com
STATE INSTITUTE OF STATISTICS (DIE)
Address: Necatibey Caddesi No. 14, Sihhiye,
Ankara, Turkey
Contact Person: Nurgul Ogut, Vice President
Tel: 0-312-425 2104
Fax: 0-312-417 4225
Email: nurgul ogut@die.gov.tr
Environment Category             F
Date PID Prepared                July 18, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         July 23, 2001
Projected Board Date             September 11, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Social and Poverty Impact of the Crisis The social impact of the crisis
is already being felt as lay-offs, rising prices, and negative economic
growth reduce household incomes, and increase the risk of poverty on the
poor. The landless poor in rural areas have been affected by a decline in
construction and other informal job opportunities, a problem that has also
severely affected the urban poor also. Meanwhile the poor with land are
beset by increased input costs due to inflation. A full social assessment
for the SRMP has been completed. The main findings are:Qualitative
evidence on withdrawal of children from school. Field visits were



undertaken to Eastern Anatolia, Southern Anatolia, Central Anatolia,
Istanbul slums, Ankara slums and the Black Sea region. When asked in the
absence of officials (and sometimes even in the presence of officials
although it is illegal in Turkey to keep a child from school), the poor
have replied that because of the crisis they are not going to be able to
send their children to school in September, illegal or not. So there is
an imminent danger of the destruction of human capital. Additionally,
Ministry of Health staff in Ankara and the field report underutilization
of preventative care by poor families.Out-of-pocket school expenditures
are larger than anticipated. In Turkey, compulsory education through
grade 8 is free of charge. However, at least in Istanbul, some public
schools required registration fees in school year 2000-2001 of TL 20
million (nearly US $30 at the December 2000 exchange rate). Rural
families repeatedly stressed the cost of appropriate clothing for
children, particularly shoes and winter coats, and some stated that they
had been forced to keep their children at home for lack of clothing.Child
labor as a coping device among the poorest families. The poorest families
are forced to mobilize all possible members as income earners to
contribute to family income, even if they are children. In the Duragan
area of Sinop province, families send boys as young as 9 to work for low
wages in agriculture. In the major cities, children work in the informal
sector, and certain cities (including Istanbul, Gazantiep, Diyabikar) have
signficant groups of street childrenChanged consumption patterns of food.
As a coping strategy to the crisis, many poor families reported drastic
changes in their consumption pattern of food, cutting back sharply on
meat, fresh fruits, vegetables, and tea. The worse cases reported that
they were subsiding almost exclusively on bread.Profile of extreme
poverty. Families with many children, particularly with many female
children are at especial risk of extreme poverty, particularly in rural
areas and in families where the main breadwinner (the husband) is
disabled, dead, or absent for military service. Other groups at risk are
single elderly living alone with no social insurance and recent migrants
to urban slum areas. In March 2001, a simulation of the impact of the
crisis on the welfare distribution was undertaken, using household data
from 1994, to identify the characteristics of the most vulnerable
households. This simulation suggested five patterns of likely increased
poverty as a result of the February 2001 financial crisis: (i) families
with many children (widows with many children are particularly vulnerable
and extended families with many children, as well as single-parent
families, seem to be the most affected in terms of high rates and high
increases in food poverty; (ii) an increase in unemployment
disproportionately affect families with many children; (iii) those with
moderate levels of education seem more likely to become vulnerable--but
still above the food poverty line--while the least educated are those most
likely to become food poor; and (iv) the urban population seems more at
risk (vulnerable) of slipping into food poverty as they have no access to
small food plots to complement meagre cash incomes. Families with reduced
income have responded to the crisis by reducing consumption, shifting to
lower cost and quality food, postponing purchases of durables, and more
worrying, proposing to keep their children back from school due to the out
of pocket expenses such as uniform, shoes and stationery. These
Government is responding to this situation with a package of structural
reforms designed to help pull the economy out of recession and restore
growth as soon as possible, which is the key to minimizing job loss, and
the social and poverty impact of the crisis. Restored confidence in the
- 2 -



financial sector will help reverse the on-going credit crunch and generate
new resources for economic recovery and job creation. The public sector
reforms will help ensure the quality of the fiscal adjustment and improve
overall efficiency of social service delivery. Better public expenditure
management will increase the availability of resources for social
expenditures. Actions to upgrade the operational performance of line
ministries and agencies, including increased emphasis on policy
formulation and a progressive shift to performance budgeting, will help
ensure that these additional resources are used effectively to fight
poverty and vulnerability. Action under the program to improve public
governance and tackle corruption are likely to benefit the poor
disproportionately as shown in numerous international studies. Structural
reform of the financial and public sectors is also crucial to avoid future
crisis which would likely be devastating for the poor.     Protecting Social
Expenditures The Government is strengthening Turkey's social protection
programs (including through the support of the SRMP) and is committed to
protecting social spending under the Programmatic Financial and Public
Sector Adjustment Loan (PFPSAL) program. Protecting expenditure on
health, education and social protection from the impact of the crises is a
key social objective. Otherwise, Turkey's human capital will suffer and
the burden of adjustment will fall on vulnerable groups. A supplementary
budget for 2001 was approved by Parliament in June which is consistent
with the Government's macroeconomic objectives and also ensures adequate
expenditure envelopes for health, education and social protection. The
budget maintains aggregate spending on education slightly above the
average levels of 1998-2000 (as a share of GNP) and programs a
significant increase in expenditure on social protection relative to
2000, resulting in part from the launch of the Direct Income Support (DIS)
program for farmers. The preliminary outcome for spending on health,
education and social protection under the 2001 budget will be monitored in
October. Benchmarks for public spending on health, education and social
protection have been set at a level above the averages for the 1998-2000
period, reflecting the Government's policy decision to ensure adequate
expenditure on social priorities. Strengthening the social safety-net.
Social Insurance. The Government is working to improve the social
safety-net, and especially to reform the social security system. The
reforms are necessary because the system is insolvent and the level of
benefits is not sustainable. The first phase of social security reform
consists of modifications to the public pay-as-you-go (PAYG) pension
system to stem operating losses, including raising the retirement age for
new entrants. The second phase of the social security reform strategy,
planned for 2001, focuses on strengthening the organizational
underpinnings of the system, extending its coverage, separating the
pension system from associated health insurance and unemployment schemes,
and eliminating accumulated arrears. The third phase is to introduce a
framework for supplementary individual pension schemes. These reforms
will bring forward a more targeted and sustainable social security system
for old-age, but will only insure against one kind of risk - that of
inadequate savings in old-age.    The existing severance payment system
which covers both public and private enterprises continues to operate and
is being strengthened by the Bank-financed Privatization Social Support
Project. The unemployment insurance program, introduced as part of the
reform of the public pension system in August 1999, will begin to make
payments to the enrolled unemployed in early 2002 and thus is not
addressed by the SRMP. The Government is moving quickly to expand
- 3-



targeted social assistance to those groups most affected by the crisis.
This support will include programs to protect vulnerable families (such as
assistance with food, medicine and social services) supported directly by
the SRMP. Limitations of Social Insurance. Social insurance (pensions and
disability) are tied to an individual having a job in the formal sector.
With the exception of the Bag Kur social insurance plan for the
self-employed, the whole social security system is linked to holding a
formal job (including the newly-introduced unemployment insurance). Such
a system runs the distinct risk of excluding those without a connection to
the formal labor market. In the 1994 Living Standards Assessment, it was
demonstrated that households headed by seasonal or casual workers (workers
without a labor contract) were at high risk of poverty and economic
vulnerability, and that approximately one out of four workers in Turkey
are casual employees. Turkey's social protection system lacks a benefit
that would be targeted to these vulnerable groups. A comprehensive social
safety-net helps to insure against the risks of unemployment and poverty.
Unfortunately, there are several large gaps in the social safety-net in
Turkey. Turkey has only recently adopted unemployment benefits, but due
to the period of required contributions, people will not be able to draw
unemployment benefits until 2002. So, those who become jobless as a
result of the economic crisis or reforms will not have unemployment
insurance to support them while they search for other jobs. Social
assistance is not comprehensive in Turkey but rather ad hoc, patchy,
limited and underfunded. Turkey's existing Social Assistance is quite
limited. Turkey does not have a poverty benefit--a cash transfer that is
targeted to the vulnerable--which could be used to help those negatively
affected by the reform. Social assistance in Turkey is limited to ad hoc
assistance in kind channeled through the 933 SYDTVs, and limited programs
for the elderly and disabled under Law 2022, as well as institutional care
for children and the elderly administered by SHCEK. Turkey has no other
cash transfers that could help the vulnerable, unlike many neighboring
countries of Western and Eastern Europe, which have universal child
allowances. The 1994 Living Standards Assessment for Turkey found that
the presence of children in a household does increase the risk of poverty
substantially. Children under 10 years old have the highest poverty risk
among all age groups.    Using the Social Safety-net to Protect Human
Capital    Turkey's social indicators do not compare favorably with other
middle income countries. In particular, infant and maternal mortality in
Turkey is quite high for a middle-income country and female literacy is
noticeably lower than the comparator countries (except for Tunisia). Life
expectancy at birth is equal to Tunisia and lower than the other
countries. These facts point out the importance of interventions in
health and education, especially education of women. The Bank has been
working in partnership with Turkey on the supply side of these
interventions, with several projects in education (including basic
education) and health. However, to date, there have been limited efforts
on the demand side, mostly in the form of public information campaigns,
which have not had much effect on these social indicators. The SRMP will
help to fill this gap on the demand side by creating an incentive for poor
households to keep their children in school and monitored by the health
system--the conditional cash transfers. CCT are an important tool in the
country's arsenal for improving these social indicators, since better
education (particularly female education) has been linked to improved
health indicators for mothers and children and higher household income.
- 4 -



2. Objectives
The development objective of the Social Risk Mitigation Project (SRMP),
is to contribute to poverty reduction in Turkey in both the short and
long-term: (i) providing immediate income support to the poorest affected
by the crisis (social risk mitigation); (ii) building up the capacity of
state institutions providing services and social assistance to the poor
(social risk management); (iii) implementing a basic social assistance
system (Conditional Cash Transfers - CCT) targeted to the poorest 8
percent of the population conditional on improved use of basic health and
education services (social risk mitigation and prevention); and (iv)
increasing the income generating and employment opportunities of the poor
(social risk prevention).Turkey is requesting the support of the World
Bank in the form of a hybrid loan of US $500 million for the SRMP to
assist in the implementation of these measures. The SRMP will consist of
two elements: (i) rapid response, US$ 100 million to provide immediate
support to the poorest and most vulnerable groups affected by the crisis -
thereby mitigating immediate social risks; and (ii) investment, US$ 400
million to strengthen programs for social risk mitigation, prevention and
management over the medium to long-term.    A key goal of the SRMP is to
create a social assistance system in Turkey that is targeted to the
poorest, and which will provide not only a "safety-net" for the poor, but
also a "trampoline" to help the poor escape poverty - a system which not
only mitigates social risk, but also helps to prevent and manage it.     The
SRMP will also undergird the Government's overall economic reform program
through mitigating social costs for the poorest.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The February 2001 crisis has made the Government more aware both of the
need to mitigate the immediate negative impacts on the poor, and also to
address long-term issues of poverty and social exclusion. The Bank is
able to contribute to both of these needs in a major way. In terms of the
rapid response to the crisis, the Bank is able to provide additional
financial resources and guidance on the key programs which would help
mitigate the negative impacts of the crisis on the poor (support to poor
families in basic education, health, heating and food consumption as well
as strengthening the legal framework for the social safety-net). Over the
longer-term, the Bank is: (i) providing guidance on improvements in
government structures to help the poor (SYDTF, SYDTVs, SHCEK and DIE)
including a stronger voice for the poor themselves; (ii) building up the
institutional capacity of these same institutions, including the
introduction of regular HIES to monitor poverty; (iii) supporting the
introduction of an affordable, highly targeted social safety-net (the CCT)
which will lead to improved health and education outcomes for the poor,
through both policy advice and finance; and (iv) improving the quality of
income generating and employability training activities under the Local
Initiatives component by bringing in best practice from social funds
globally, improving procedures and criteria, including the essential
elements of the Government's economic reform program.
4. Description
The SRMP has four strongly complementary components:Rapid Response (US$
100.0 million, of which Bank US$100.0 million): The SRMP would support
key programs of the SYDTF targeted to the poorest households in a single
disbursement upon loan effectiveness, inter alia: (i) school attendance
packs (uniforms, shoes, clothes, stationery, textbooks and back-pack);
- 5 -



(ii) pharmaceuticals and medical supplies for "green-card" holders; and
(iii) expansion of existing social assistance programs (including family
food and heating support) to meet the increased real needs generated by
the crisis. Board presentation requires Government compliance with
certain highlighted in the next section of the PAD, and signature of the
Letter of Development Policy (LDP) on social assistance and poverty
reduction.Institutional Development (US$ 36.54 million, of which Bank US$
31.90 million): The SRMP would strengthen the institutional capacity of
key government agencies to improve the coverage and targeting of the
social safety-net for the poor. Key elements include strengthening (i)
policy research, M&E capacities; (ii) MIS & IT development; (iii) staff
development and training; and (iv) public information campaigns. This
would include the provision of TA, training, computer and other equipment
for the MIS to the SYDTF, SYDTVs, SHCEK and the DIE.CCT (US$ 480.00
million, of which Bank US$ 260.0 million):    The SRMP would finance the
introduction through the SYDTF/SYDTVs of an expanded social safety-net
targeted to the poorest 8 percent of families linked to certain positive
behavioral changes such as keeping children in school and ensuring
children receive adequate immunization coverage in a timely manner, basic
health care and nutrition (including resolving micro-nutrient
deficiencies). This would require the introduction of an improved and
systematic targeting system using "points" for household characteristics
linked to poverty. The CCT is a highly targeted social assistance
transfer to families with children, requiring positive family behavioral
change with respect to health and education.Local Initiatives (US$ 127.34
million, of which Bank US$ 103.10 million): The SRMP would strengthen
and finance key programs of the SYDTF/SYDTVs as proposed by Provinces,
Districts, and local community demand, designed to provide enhanced
sustainable employment opportunities for the poor, thereby reducing
poverty. Such programs are: (i) income-generating sub-projects (which
will receive improved technical assessment and M&E under the SRMP); (ii)
employability training (including adult literacy - especially for women),
technical and life skills training for unemployed youth - including how to
get a job, start a small business); (iii) expansion of the network of
SHCEK community centers as the basis for increased outreach of community
social services; and (iv) temporary community employment which will
support workfare activities.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                         248.00
IBRD                             500.00
Total Project Cost               748.00
6. Implementation
The SRMP would be managed by the SYDTF which has created a small project
coordination unit (PCU) with satisfactory staff to perform the following
functions: project management, procurement, financial management &
disbursement, MIS, monitoring and evaluation (M&E). Collaboration
protocols will be signed with other involved parties such as SHCEK, DIE,
Ministry of National Education (MEB), and Ministry of Health (SB) prior to
Board.The SYDTF is an extra-budgetary fund established by Law No. 3294
dated May 29, 1986. The SYDTF is administered by a Committee comprising
Undersecretary of Prime Ministry, Undersecretary of Ministry of Interiors,
Undersecretary of Ministry of Health, the General Directorate of
- 6-



Foundations and the General Director of the SHCEK, under the chairmanship
of a State Minister appointed by the Prime Minister. All of the decisions
made at the Committee meetings enter into effect after approval and
ratification by the Prime Minister. The SYDTF does not have its own
administrative capacity and most of its staff members are seconded and
paid from ministries or other agencies. The SYDTF is subject to government
regulations on accounting (Uniform Code of Accounts) and record-keeping;
however, the Fund is not required to produce financial statements, given
its nature of extra-budgetary fund and tax-exemption status. The SYDTF is
subject to annual audits by the Prime Ministry Supreme Audit Board.The
SYDTF's existing accounting unit is not prepared and adequately staffed to
cope with the increased workload originated by the project and the
existing financial management system is inadequate to support project
accounting/reporting functions (following government accounting
classifications and conventions) and not supported by the needed internal
controls; hence the need (among other fiduciary areas, where adequate
resources and skills are lacking) for the establishment of a Project
Coordination Unit through which specialized information systems and
adequate professional expertise will be made available to the SYDTF. The
strategic governance of the project will reside with the Advisory Board,
composed of all stakeholders and chaired by the State Minister responsible
for the SYDTF. The Board will be in charge of policy making and will be
the project's decisional body. Among others, the Advisory Board will
approve project reporting as well as the annual budget/work plan. The PCU,
physically located within the SYDTF, will be in charge of project
management, administration and concrete implementation, functioning as
service-provider to the various implementing agencies. The PCU will work
as a specialized organizational unit of the SYDTF, staffed with staff from
the Fund (counterpart members) and local consultants for the activities
where the SYDTF lacks, at present, experience: both fiduciary
(disbursement, procurement, project accounting and reporting) and
pertinent to SYDTF's core functions (for instance targeting, M&E and
public information). The PCU team will involve representatives from the
SHCEK and the DIE (to ease communication and facilitate coordination
between the SYDTF and the two agencies) and will comprise a procurement
person, an accountant, a disbursement person, an information technology
expert, a monitoring and evaluation expert, a reporting and communication
expert and two support staff. All PCU team members, including the
consultants, will be appointed full time by project effectiveness. Job
descriptions for the local consultants, to be hired for the life of the
project and who will be preferably experienced in Bank-financed projects,
were reviewed and approved by the Bank. It is expected that the SYDTF will
improve its capacity by the support of these qualified professional
individual consultants and that a financial management system satisfactory
to the Bank will be maintained and strengthened by the Fund throughout
project implementation. All fiduciary functions (disbursement,
procurement, accounting and reporting) will be centralized at the PCU
level. To that extent, the PCU must be not only appropriately resourced,
but the PCU team members will need appropriate training in project
management and administration. The SYDTF managed efficiently and
effectively the emergency response to the August 1999 earthquake, proving
itself as the most suitable vehicle to administer assistance transfers in
a fast and sufficiently controlled way. However, it did not perform
project management and administration functions for which, at present,
there is no capacity in place. Furthermore, the SYDTF lacks written
- 7 -



policies and procedures governing its functions and regulating its
relations with the SYDTVs.The SYDTVs are separate autonomous legal
entities established at the provincial/sub-provincial level, managed by
their own local Committee (which is headed by the Governor at the
provincial level and by his/her homologous at the sub-provincial level),
enjoying relative latitude in decision-making and (given their legal
status) exercising clear independence in carrying out their activities.
For effective coordination and monitoring by the SYDTF on the activities
carried out by the SYDTVs under the umbrella of the SRMP the parts will
need to enter a Framework Protocol, spelling out respective roles and
responsibilities and empowering the SYDTF with some sort of authority to
implement specific actions in case of less than satisfactory participation
or performance by the SYDTVs. To that extent, the introduction of
standardized procedures and reporting formats will be needed, which will
be one of the outcomes of the establishment of a common, unified financial
and management information system (financed under the Institutional
Development component of the project). In that sense, what proved to be an
extremely successful response and spontaneous mobilization under the
earthquake emergency needs, under the Social Risk Mitigation Project needs
to be systematized and documented, in order to become an efficient,
sustainable and transparent social safety net and an effective system of
social services and assistance catering to the very needy people. In
consideration of the project preparation tight time line and the
reasonable amount of time (estimated in two to three months from
appraisal) that the establishment of a satisfactory financial management
system, adequate to support project implementation, will take - including
human resources, software, hardware, policies and procedures documented in
the Operational and Financial Management Manual - the positive
re-assessment by the Bank of the accomplishments in this area will
necessarily have to be regarded as a condition of disbursement for the
non-adjustment portion of the Loan.
7. Sustainability
This hybrid operation consists of two elements, the Rapid Response
element which is by definition not intended to be sustainable, and the
other element, the investment element, which by definition needs to be
sustainable. The investment element includes three components, all of
which are sustainable in the medium-term: Institutional Development, CCT,
and Local Initiatives. For the Rapid Response component, the intention is
to assist the Government with its immediate efforts to relieve the effects
of the financial crisis on the most vulnerable--notably families with
children, who were found to be the most vulnerable to the negative impact
of the crisis. A special focus of the rapid response component is to
assist children in poor families to partially offset the expenses
associated with the return to school in September 2001.    Other groups that
would be assisted in this component are the poor holding health "green
cards" to purchase pharmaceuticals and medical supplies, and those
worst-affected by the crisis with assistance in kind and in cash. As a
crisis intervention, these activities are by their nature one-off and do
not require being sustained over the medium-term.     However, the LDP
commits the Treasury to transfer the SYDTF revenues to SYDTF on a regular
and timely basis in future, thereby insuring its financial
sustainability. On CCT, the Bank will provide the majority of financing
of these transfers under the CCT component of the investment portion of
the SRMP for its first three years. However, the Government will also
- 8 -



contribute counterpart funding to these transfers, probably on an
increasing basis. Initially, the CCT will be tightly targeted to the
bottom 8 percent of the population by using a scoring formula, so overall
costs will be contained. Sustainability of expenditures on CCT will be
greatly facilitated by the use of the scoring formula, which would enable
the Government to contract or expand CCT as economic conditions and
budgetary resources permit. As part of the institutional strengthening
component, evaluation and monitoring capacity will be developed in the
SYDTF and other institutions so that a comprehensive evaluation of CCT can
be undertaken during the SRMP. If CCT are as successful in Turkey as they
have proved to be in Mexico and Colombia, it is possible that the
Government could continue CCT beyond the life on the SRMP as an important
contributor to the social safety net in Turkey. Owing to the flexible
nature of the targeting mechanism, the Government could rapidly scale CCT
up or down, depending on need and availability of budgetary resources. In
the event that the Government decides not to sustain CCT beyond the life
of the SRMP, the exit strategy would be for the Government to rely on
other SYDTF activities such as workfare (envisioned under the Local
Initiatives component) or other social assistance in kind, relying on the
institutional strengthening of the SYDTF and SYDTV created under the SRMP.
Institutional Development by its nature is sustainable, since the goal of
it is to create capacity in Turkish institutions to facilitate reforms of
the social safety-net and to become more efficient and effective in so
doing. By investing now in MIS technology and setting up a targeting
mechanism and scoring formula, the institutional strengthening efforts
will lead to improved efficiency and lower operating costs, thus
demonstrating sustainability. The Local Initiatives component is an
expansion of the existing SYDTF programs, including income-generating and
micro-credit programs, which cover their own costs and so are
sustainable. Other local initiative activities include investments in
human capital, such as literacy, which have an economic pay-off and
positive externalities for Turkey.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The SRMP draws extensively upon the experience obtained through the
implementation of the Bank's Turkish portfolio (Turkey) as well as World
Bank operations responding to crisis in Indonesia, Colombia, and Ecuador
(global). The design has been based upon the lessons learnt and
experience gained from and other projects in Turkey, as well as social
protection projects more widely (global). It is totally consistent with
the ECA and Bank-wide Social Protection Strategy (strategy). The main
lessons learnt (with source in parentheses) incorporated into the SRMP are
summarized below:Comprehensive social mitigation approach: There are
great synergies to be obtained by linking social protection with the
health and education sectors as part of an overall social mitigation
strategy (strategy). The SRMP explicitly links social assistance
provision with health and education under the CCT, thereby developing
important synergies and strengthening demand for basic health and
education services by the poor.Policy implementation is as important as
design: Even the best policy design can be undone by poor implementation
(Turkey, global). The SRMP combines TA for policy design, together with
the strengthening of M&E and resources for program implementation in a
coherent and integrated manner. Strong national ownership: Projects will
only be implemented effectively if there is strong national ownership
(Turkey, global). The project components build exactly on the strengths
- 9-



of the SYDTF, SYDTVs, SHCEK and DIE, and have their strongest
endorsement. Provincial and District administrations and NGOs are also
highly supportive.Involve stakeholders: Stakeholders views and inputs
must be incorporated constantly into the project design if it is to
respond to the real needs of the proposed beneficiaries (global, Turkey).
The project includes a number of beneficiary assessment to monitor
stakeholders interests and perceptions. Communities will be able to make
sub-project proposals under the Local Initiatives component. All
stakeholders are represented on the SRMP Advisory Board.Keep projects
simple: The most common cause of project failure is complexity (global).
Great attention is being given during preparation to keep the SRMP as
simple as possible (within the context of inherently complex activities
involving many stakeholders), reviewing each sub-component carefully, and
building upon and improving what already exists whenever possible, rather
than creating new programs. The only exception in the creation of the CCT
- however this builds upon the existing ad hoc social assistance system of
the SYDTF and SYDTVs.Centrality of M&E: M&E of social protection programs
and projects has been inadequate (global, strategy) in many lending
operations within social protection globally and in Turkey.
Institutionalizing M&E across the entire range of the activities of the
SYDTF, SYDTVs and SHCEK is central to, and one of the areas of real
value-added, of the SRMP for Turkey.Coordinated informatics: Informatics
systems must be able to communicate with one another with a user-friendly
interface and should only be introduced after existing manual informations
systems and processes have been streamlined (global, Turkey). Special
attention is being given to ensure that the informatics systems of the
SYDTF, SYDTVs and SHCEK will all inter-connect effectively, and will have
a user-friendly interface.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :   There are no significant environmental issues.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
John A. Innes
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-5826
Fax:   (202) 477-33-87
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 10 -



