Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4638 TU 
Loan Agreement
(Social Risk Mitigation Project/Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 14, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4638 TU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated August 15, 2001, describing the 
Borrower’s strategies, policies and actions designed to strengthen and reform the 
fields of social risk mitigation, social assistance and poverty reduction (the 
Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; and
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), which forms a 
part of the Program, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower in support of the Program and the Project, upon the 
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Page  2
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
In Section 2.01, a new paragraph (22) is added to read: 
"’Program’ means the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement.";
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
"Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Loan Account: (a) with respect to expenditures under Categories (1), 
(2), 
(3), (4), (5) and (7) of the table in Part A of Schedule 1 to the Loan 
Agreement shall be made in respective currencies in which the expenditures to 
be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan have been paid or are payable; 
provided, however, that withdrawals in respect of expenditures in the currency 
of the 
Borrower shall be made in such currency or currencies as the Bank shall 
from time to 
time reasonably select; and (b) under Category (6) of the table 
in Part A of 
Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement shall be made in the currency of  the deposit account 
specified in Section 2.03 (b) of the Loan Agreement."
(c)
Section 5.01 is renumbered as Section 5.01 (a) and the following new 
sub-section (b) is added to read: 
"(b)
The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Loan allocated to Category (6) of the table in Part A of Schedule 1 to the 
Loan Agreement from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Loan Agreement and of these General Conditions."
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is modified to read: 
"Applications for withdrawals from Categories (1) through (5) in the 
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Part A of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, 
including the documentation required pursuant to this Article, shall be made 
promptly in relation to expenditures of the Project."
(e)
Section 9.04 is modified to read: 
"Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all 
goods, services, sub-projects, grants and incremental operating costs financed 
out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Categories (1) through (5) in the 
table set 
forth in paragraph 1 of Part A of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement 
to be 
used exclusively for the purposes of the Project."
(f)  
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read:
"(c) 
Not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
Program and Project, their cost and the benefits derived and to be derived 
from them, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the 
Loan."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Advisory Committee" means the committee chaired by the Minister of State 
responsible for the SYDTF (as hereinafter defined), and including representatives from 
the Participating Agencies and related institutions, and civic society, responsible 
for providing the SYDTF guidance and recommendations regarding the Project, or any 
successor or successors thereto;
(b)
"Agency Bank" means any bank, acceptable to the Bank, that enters into an 
Agency Bank Agreement (as hereinafter defined);
(c)
"Agency Bank Agreement" means any of the agreements entered into between 
Page  3
the SYDTF and any Agency Bank, whereby the Agency Bank undertakes to make, as an agent 
of the SYDTF, payments of Education and Health/Nutrition Grants under Part B of the 
Project;
(d)
"Annual Program" means an annual program of actions to be undertaken by 
the Borrower with respect to the Project and Program implementation, referred to in 
Section 3.02 (d) of this Agreement;
(e)
"Beneficiary" means: (a) for the purposes of Part B of the Project, any 
of the children’s mothers, or, in the absence of the natural mother, any recipient of 
the designated Education or Health/Nutrition Grant (as hereinafter defined), as 
defined in the POM (as hereinafter defined), referred to in Parts B.1 and B.2 of the 
Project; and (b) for the purposes of Part C.1 of the Project, a member of any 
community group or association, formed in accordance with procedures set forth in the 
POM, to which a Performance Grant (as hereinafter defined) is made or proposed to be 
made under Part C.1 of the Project;
(f)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.03 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(g)
"DIE" means the State Institute of Statistics of the Borrower;
(h)
"Education Grant" means a grant in cash made or proposed to be made out 
of the proceeds of the Loan to a Beneficiary under Part B.1 of the Project in 
accordance with the selection criteria, procedures and under terms and conditions set 
forth in the POM;
(i)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1) through (5), set forth in the 
table in Part A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(j)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, services, 
Education, Health/Nutrition and Performance Grants and Sub-projects referred to in 
Section 2.02  of this Agreement;
(k)
"Executive Committee" means the committee to be formed under Part C of 
the Project, chaired by the Director of the SYDTF, and including the PCU coordinator, 
two PCU monitoring and evaluation specialists, a representative of the SHCEK, and 
three members of the NGOs, or any successor or successors thereto; 
(l)
"Health/Nutrition Grant" means a grant in cash made or proposed to be 
made out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Beneficiary under Part B.2 of the Project in 
accordance with the selection criteria, procedures and under terms and conditions set 
forth in the POM;
(m)
"NGO" means a non-governmental organization;
(n)
"Participating Agency" means the SYDVs, the SHCEK or the DIE (as such 
terms hereinafter defined);
(o)
"Participating Agency Agreement" means any of the agreements and the 
circular referred to in Section 3.02 (e) (i) of this Agreement;
(p)
"Performance Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between the 
relevant SYDV and a Service Provider (as hereinafter defined) under      Parts C.2 and 
C.3 of the Project, and between the SHCEK and a Service Provider under Part C.4 of the 
Project, in accordance with the provision of paragraph C.4 of the Annex to Schedule 5 
to this Agreement;
(q)
"Performance Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made out of the 
proceeds of the Loan to the Beneficiaries under Part C.1 of the Project for the 
financing of a Sub-project (as hereinafter defined) in accordance with the selection 
criteria, procedures and under terms and conditions set forth in the POM;
(r)
"Performance Grant Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into 
between the relevant SYDV and the Beneficiaries in accordance with the provision of 
paragraph B.5 of the Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(s)
"PCU" means the project coordination unit established within the SYDTF to 
perform day-to-day Project management and implementation activities, or any successor 
or successors thereto;
(t)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Page  4
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(u)
"POM" means the project operational manual adopted by the SYDTF and 
setting out the operational and administrative procedures, and terms and conditions 
related to the implementation of the Project;
(v)
"Service Provider" means a private enterprise, institution or NGO that 
has been selected by the relevant SYDV to carry out a Sub-project under Part C of the 
Project;
(w)
"SHCEK" means the Social Services and Child Protection Organization of 
the Borrower;
(x)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(y)
"Sub-project" means a specific productive activity financed, or proposed 
to be financed under Part C of the Project;
(z)
"SYDTF" means the Social Solidarity Fund of the Borrower;
(aa)
"SYDVs" means the Social Solidarity Foundations of the Borrower; 
(bb)
"TL" means the Turkish Lira, the currency of the Borrower; and
(cc)
"Treasury" means the Undersecretariat of Treasury of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to five 
hundred  million Dollars  ($500,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan allocated to Categories (1) through (5) in 
the table set forth in Part A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement may be withdrawn from 
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for: (i)  expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, services and incremental operating costs required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) amounts paid (or, 
if the Bank shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the  SYDVs on account of 
withdrawals made by the Beneficiaries under Education Grants and Health/Nutrition 
Grants, and Performance Grants to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for the Sub-projects under Part C.1 of the Project in respect of 
which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and (iii) withdrawals made to 
meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for a Sub-project under 
Parts C.2, C.3 and C.4 of the Project.
Section 2.03. (a) Subject to provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, and Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (6) in the table set forth in Part A of   
Schedule 1 to this Agreement from the Loan Account, in support of the Program.
(b)  
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first 
request for withdrawal from the Loan Account with respect to Category (6) in the table 
set forth in Part A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and thereafter maintain in its 
central bank, a deposit account (Deposit Account) in Dollars, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  The withdrawal with respect to such Category (6) shall be 
deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account.
(c)  
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time 
to time to Category (6) shall not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 7 of Part A of Schedule 1.  If at any time, the Bank shall 
have determined, based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank, and after an exchange of 
views with the Borrower, that any of the proceeds of such Category (6) shall have been 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the 
amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund such amount to 
the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be credited to the 
Loan Account for cancellation.
Page  5
Section 2.04.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.08 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:           
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.07, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through SYDTF, with the 
assistance of the Participating Agencies, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
Page  6
conformity with appropriate financial, administrative and social protection practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01, and except 
as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through SYDTF, 
shall:
(a)
carry out the Project with the assistance of the Participating Agencies, 
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement and in accordance with the POM; 
(b)
until the completion of the Project, maintain the PCU with adequate 
resources and staffed by personnel with qualifications and under terms of reference 
and function at all times in accordance with procedures necessary and appropriate for 
the carrying out of the Project, and satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)
until the completion of the Project, maintain the POM, and except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, not amend, waive or fail to enforce the POM, or any 
provision thereof;
(d)
(i)
for each calendar year of Project implementation, prepare and 
furnish to the Bank, on or about October 30: (A) a proposed Annual 
Program, which shall discuss, inter alia, planned activities and 
expenditures during the next year, including sources of funding; 
(B) an assessment of the preceding year’s activities and 
expenditures, if any, set forth in the preceding year’s Annual 
Program; and (C) an assessment of the Borrower’s overall 
implementation of the strategies, policies and actions of the 
Program; and
(ii)
for each calendar year of Project implementation, review with the 
Bank, no later than November 30, the items referred to in 
sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph (d), and thereafter adopt, no 
later than January 31 of the next calendar year, the Annual 
Program for such calendar year, taking into account the Bank’s 
conclusions and recommendations; and
(e)
(i)
issue a circular with respect to the SYDVs, and enter into an 
agreement or agreements with the SHCEK and DIE, which circular and 
agreements shall set forth the rights and responsibilities of the 
parties thereto for the implementation of the respective parts of 
the Project, as provided in this Agreement and the POM; 
(ii)
ensure that the SYDTF enters into an Agency Bank Agreement with 
each relevant Agency Bank, which agreement shall describe the 
rights and responsibilities of the parties thereto in accordance 
with terms and conditions set forth in the POM; and
(iii)
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each 
Participating Agency Agreement referred to in subparagraph (i) of 
this paragraph (e), and ensure that the SYDTF exercises its rights 
and carries out its obligations under each Agency Bank Agreement 
referred to in paragraph (ii) of this paragraph (e), in such 
manner as to protect the interest of the Borrower and the Bank, 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Project, and, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate, 
waive or fail to enforce such agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 2001, transfer an 
amount of 550 trillion TL to the SYDTF for the implementation of the social assistance 
programs agreed with the Bank.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower and Bank shall, from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program.
(b)  
Prior to such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank 
Page  7
for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)  
Without limitations upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of Category (6) which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action set forth in Part A, paragraph 5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower, through the SYDTF, shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about November 30, 2003, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project, and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by December 31, 2003, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to paragraph (b) of this Section, and 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, through the SYDTF, maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower, through the SYDTF, shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for 
the Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower, through the SYDTF, shall:
Page  8
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports, or statements of 
expenditure, submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower, through the SYDTF, shall carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system 
referred to in paragraph (a) of  Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not 
later than  January 31, 2002, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and     
(B) explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower, through the SYDTF, shall prepare, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such 
period.
Section 4.03.  Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 2.03 of 
this Agreement audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six (6) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
Page  9
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out in a timely and effective 
manner; and
(b)
the POM shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived, 
or failed to be effectively implemented or enforced, so as to affect, in the opinion 
of the Bank, materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01.  The following event is specified as an additional condition to 
the effectiveness of this Agreement, within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the basic financial management arrangements 
satisfactory to the Bank have been adopted by the SYDTF.
Section 6.02.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Undersecretary of Treasury of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of      
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Basbakanlik
Hazine Mustesarligi
Inonu Bulvari
Emek-Ankara
Republic of Turkey
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
HAZINE
44232 HZM-TR
(312) 212-8550
Hazine, Ankara
44404 HZM-TR
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Ankara, Republic of Turkey, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
Page  10
By /s/ Faik Öztrak
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ajay Chhibber
Country Director
Turkey Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Part A.
General                            
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Education Grants and 
260,000,000
100% of amounts   
Health/Nutrition Grants
disbursed until 
under Part B of the Project
December 31, 2002;
80% of amounts
disbursed until 
December 31, 2003;
and 60% thereafter 
(2)
Performance Grants
100,000,000
82% of amounts 
and Sub-projects 
disbursed
under Part C
of the Project
(3)
Goods
 15,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 82% of local
expenditures for 
other items procured
locally
(4)
Consultants’ services,
 15,000,000
82%
including training
(5)
Incremental operating       300,000
82%
costs
(6)
Portion of the Loan 
100,000,000
100%
in support of the 
Program, referred to
in Section 2.03 (a)
of this Agreement
(7) 
Fee
  5,000,000
Amount due under
Section 2.05 of 
Page  11
this Agreement
 (8)
Unallocated
  4,700,000
TOTAL
500,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods, works or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term "training" means: (i) the fees of consultants, including 
educational or other institutions and organizations, that provide training services; 
and   (ii) the cost of study tours, cost of workshops, and related travel 
expenditures, and boarding, lodging and per diem allowances provided to civil servants 
of the Borrower; and
(d)
the term "incremental operating costs" means reasonable and necessary 
incremental expenses incurred by the Borrower on account of Project implementation, 
management and monitoring, including the cost of transport and travel, fuel and 
repairs made on account of maintenance and operation of vehicles, attendance of 
seminars, conferences and meetings, communication, and office operating and 
maintenance costs, including maintenance of office equipment, systems and facilities, 
provided, however, that the above expenses shall have been budgeted in the Annual 
Program.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) under Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 
of Part A of this Schedule, unless: (i) the financial management arrangements for the 
SYDTF, satisfactory to the Bank, have been implemented, including management 
information system and the project accounting software, satisfactory to the Bank, have 
been installed in the SYDTF (PCU), and the financial management manual, satisfactory 
to the Bank, has been adopted by the SYDTF; and (ii) the Law on SYDTF and SYDVs, 
satisfactory to the Bank, for the strengthening of the organizational structures of 
the SYDTF and SYDVs, including the cooperation between these institutions and their 
collaboration with NGOs, has been enacted.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under Categories (1) through (5) for: 
(a) goods under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) services of 
consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) 
services of individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each; and (d) incremental operating costs and training, each, under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above no withdrawal shall be made 
from the Loan Account under Category (6) of the table set forth in Part A, paragraph 1 
of this Schedule, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.04 of this Agreement, based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Bank that:
(a)
the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory, as 
measured on the basis of indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Bank; and
(b)
the Borrower has achieved progress satisfactory to the Bank in the 
carrying out of the Program.
6.
(a)
If, after the exchange of views referred to in paragraph 5 above, the 
Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the requirements of subparagraphs 
(a) and (b) of paragraph 5 above are not satisfactory and, within ninety (90) days 
after such notice, the Borrower shall not have met the requirements of said 
subparagraphs (a) and (b) of paragraph 5 above, then the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower cancel the amount of the Loan allocated to Category (6) of the table set 
forth in Part A, paragraph 1 of this Schedule 1.
7.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, and for the purposes of 
Page  12
Section 2.03 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (6) 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
(a)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency 
of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of which goods or 
services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall 
not be excluded;
(b)  
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any 
national or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;
(c)
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of 
the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated 
by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                       -
Alcoholic beverages
121                       -
Tobacco, unmanu-
factured, tobacco
refuse
122                       -
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525                       -
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667                       -
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious
stones, unworked
or worked
718                     718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728                     728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
897                     897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971                       -
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
(d)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or 
for luxury consumption;
(e)
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use 
or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;
Page  13
(f)
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or 
(b) on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such 
payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
(g)
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Bank  to remedy the situation.
Part B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account, in 
its Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall upon notice from 
the Bank, promptly provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Page  14
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, upon 
notice from the Bank, promptly refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an 
amount equivalent to $15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, 
that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited 
to an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals for 
Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule from 
the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal or 
exceed the equivalent of $15,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan  minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
Page  15
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and  
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $15,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower’s poverty reduction 
measures both in the short and long term through alleviating the impact of current 
economic crisis on the most vulnerable population, strengthening the capacity of 
public institutions providing social services and social assistance, implementing a 
basic social assistance system to protect and promote poor children’s human capital, 
and increasing the income generating and employment opportunities of the poor.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Development
1.
Development of integrated management information systems and provision of 
information technology to the SYDTF, SYDVs and SHCEK.
2.
Development of research and monitoring, and evaluation functions within the 
SYDTF, SYDVs and SHCEK, through the financing of goods, technical assistance and 
training.
3.
Development and implementation of human resources policies and comprehensive 
staff training programs for the SYDTF, SYDVs and SHCEK, through the financing of 
technical assistance and training.
4.
Design and implementation of public information activities, including public 
information campaigns within the SYDTF, SYDVs and SHCEK, through the financing of 
technical assistance and training.
5.
Development and implementation of a program of household surveys and 
strengthening the capacity of the DIE to undertake census analysis, through the 
financing of goods, technical assistance and training.
6.
Assistance to the SYDTF in Project management and implementation, including 
activities related to procurement, financial management, including auditing, 
disbursement, monitoring and evaluation, and reporting, and the provision of 
additional social workers to selected SYDVs, through the financing of consulting 
services, including training, and goods. 
Part B:
Conditional Grants
1.
Provision of Education Grants to the mothers (or designated Grant recipient in 
the absence of the natural mother as defined in the POM) of children aged six (6) 
years old and more, who belong to eligible families in accordance with the POM, to 
finance out of pocket expenditures for children in grades 1 through 11, as provided in 
the POM.
2.
Provision of Health/Nutrition Grants to the mothers, or designated Grant 
recipients in the absence of the natural mothers, as defined in the POM, of children 
who are less than seven (7) years old and not in receipt of the Education Grants, and 
who belong to eligible families in accordance with the POM, to assist in the health 
Page  16
care, including nutrition, needs of those children, as provided in the POM.
Part C:
Local Initiatives
1.
Promotion, selection, implementation and supervision, in accordance with the 
criteria and principles set forth in the POM, of income generating Sub-projects and 
provision of Performance Grants to Beneficiaries for the financing of such 
Sub-projects.
2. 
Promotion, selection, implementation and supervision, in accordance with the 
criteria and principles set forth in the POM, of employability training Sub-projects.
3.
Promotion, selection, implementation and supervision, in accordance with the 
criteria and principles set forth in the POM, of Sub-projects, to create temporary 
community employment for the repair and rehabilitation of essential local community 
assets.
4.
Promotion, selection, implementation and supervision, in accordance with the 
criteria and principles set forth in the POM, of community service Sub-projects, to 
deal with the needs of vulnerable groups, such as poor children, youth-at-risk, 
unemployed and the elderly.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
  (Expressed in
Date Payment Due
Dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning April 15, 2007
through October 15, 2016
25,000,000
__________________________
* 
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Sections  4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Page  17
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines), and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) all contracts procured in accordance with the procedures 
referred to in Part B of this Section I; and (b) first three contracts procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Parts C.1 and C.2 of this Section I, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Page  18
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely of national consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality Based Selection
Services under Part A.2 of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services relating to audits under the Project may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualification
Services for small training programs and for beneficiary assessments estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
Page  19
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
Overall Project Oversight, Management and Implementation
(a)
The overall Project oversight and management shall be under the 
responsibility of the SYDTF, with the PCU being responsible for day-to-day Project 
management and implementation activities, including procurement, disbursement, 
financial management and Project monitoring.  
(b)
The Advisory Committee shall be responsible for periodically assessing 
the overall Project implementation and problems, based on information provided by the 
PCU and other sources, and shall provide the SYDTF written recommendations and advice 
regarding future Project activities.
(c)
The Project shall be implemented in accordance with the POM.  The POM 
shall contain the detailed procedures for the carrying out of the Project, including 
inter alia: the requirements to be fulfilled for the provision of Education, 
Health/Nutrition and Performance Grants (which shall include the provision set forth 
in the Annex to this Schedule 5 to this Agreement); the criteria for identification, 
registration and selection of Beneficiaries; the criteria for identification, 
appraisal, selection of Sub-projects; required procedures and documents for 
disbursement of Education, Health/Nutrition and Performance Grants and Sub-projects 
and the mechanisms for the verification of compliance with terms and conditions of 
such grants and Sub-projects; the detailed procedures for coordination and 
collaboration among the PCU, the Participating Agencies, the Agency Banks, and other 
stakeholders in the implementation of the Project; the financial management 
procedures; the procurement procedures; and the procedures, indicators and targets for 
Project supervision, monitoring and evaluation.
(d)
The SYDVs shall implement the Project in accordance with the selection 
criteria and procedures, and under terms and conditions set forth in the POM and the 
circular to be issued by the SYDTF. 
2.
Part A of the Project  
Part A of the Project shall be implemented primarily by the SYDTF, with the 
assistance of the Participating Agencies, in accordance with provisions set forth in 
the Participating Agency Agreements related to Part A of the Project.
3.
Part B of the Project  
Part B of the Project shall be implemented primarily by the SYDTF, with the 
assistance of the SYDVs and Agency Banks, in accordance with the provisions set forth 
in the Participating Agency Agreements related to Part B of the Project and the Agency 
Bank Agreements, and requirements for provision of Education Grants and 
Health/Nutrition Grants set forth in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Schedule 5.  
4.
Part C of the Project  
Part C of the Project shall be implemented primarily by the SYDTF, with the 
assistance of the SYDVs and Executive Committee for Parts C.1, C.2 and C.3 of the 
Project and with the assistance of the SHCEK and Executive Committee for Part C.4 of 
the Project, in accordance with the provisions set forth in the Participating Agency 
Agreements related to Part C of the Project, and in accordance with the selection 
criteria and procedures, and under terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this 
Schedule 5.  The Executive Committee shall be responsible for evaluating proposals for 
Sub-projects and Performance Grants and making recommendations to the SYDTF, and for 
reviewing and reporting to the SYDTF the status of Sub-projects and Performance Grants 
under implementation.   
Page  20
Annex to SCHEDULE 5
A.
Requirements for the Provision of Education Grants and Health/Nutrition Grants
1.
To benefit from an Education Grant, a child must: (a) meet the criteria of 
eligibility set forth in the POM; (b) be six (6) years old and more; (c) enrolled in 
grades 1 through 11; (d) maintain every school term a class attendance rate required 
under the applicable regulations; and (e) not repeat any grade more than once.
2.
The amount of each Education Grant shall not exceed the equivalent of $8 per 
month per child during the school year.
3.
To benefit from a Health/Nutrition Grant: (a) a child must be less than seven 
(7) years old and not in receipt of an Education Grant, and meet the criteria of 
eligibility set forth in the POM; and (b) the Beneficiaries shall be required to bring 
their children to public health clinics (in accordance with as established plan, as 
set forth in the POM), for scheduled monitoring of weight gain against agreed 
standards, and to receive basic health services in public health clinics.
4.
The amount of Health/Nutrition Grants shall be the equivalent of $6 per month 
per child.
B.
Terms and Conditions for Performance Grants Under Part C.1 of the Project
1.
The Performance Grants shall be made to the Beneficiaries who meet the criteria 
of eligibility set forth in the POM.
2.
The Performance Grants shall be made for the Sub-projects which are each 
selected in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the POM and 
determined, on the basis of an appraisal carried out in accordance with the POM, to 
be, inter alia: (a) technically sound and feasible; (b) supporting an income 
generating activity; and (c) in compliance with environmental standards, satisfactory 
to the Bank, and in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations of the 
Borrower relating to health, safety and environmental protection.  
3.
The Beneficiaries shall carry out the Sub-projects through the Service Providers 
selected in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the POM.
4.
The amount of each Performance Grant shall not exceed the equivalent of $10,000, 
and the amount paid to any one Beneficiary shall not exceed $1,000.
5.
For the purposes of each Performance Grant, the relevant SYDV shall conclude a 
Performance Grant Agreement with the Beneficiaries in the form of the model provided 
in the POM.  The Performance Grant Agreement shall include, inter alia:
(a)
a description of the Sub-project, together with an estimate of the cost 
thereof;
(b)
 the amount of the Performance Grant to be provided to assist in the 
carrying out of the Sub-project;
(c)
the Service Provider who will implement the Sub-project or if not 
selected the procedures for the selection of the Service Provider; 
(d)
the implementation schedule for the Sub-project;
(e)
the obligation of the Beneficiaries and the Service Provider to procure 
small works, goods and services to be financed under the Performance Grant Agreement 
in accordance with the procedures set forth in the POM;
(f)
the obligation of the Beneficiaries and the Service Provider to report to 
the SYDV on the progress of Sub-project implementation and to enable representatives 
of the SYDV, the PCU and of the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, to visit the 
Sub-project site; 
(g)
the obligation of the Beneficiaries to maintain records and accounts for 
expenditures incurred under the Sub-project and to submit to the SYDV at regular 
intervals statements with respect to such records and accounts; and
(h)
agreement of the Beneficiaries to have the Performance Grant be suspended 
or terminated upon the Beneficiaries’ failure to perform the obligations set forth in 
the Performance Grant Agreement.
Page  21
C.
Terms and Conditions for Sub-projects  Under Parts C.2, C.3 and C.4 of the 
Project
1.
The Relevant SYDV under Parts C.2 and C.4 of the Project, and the SHCEK under 
Part C.3 of the Project, shall select the Sub-projects in accordance with the criteria 
and procedures set forth in the POM and determined, on the basis of an appraisal 
carried out in accordance with the POM, to be, inter alia: (a) technically sound and 
feasible; (b) supporting an employability training activity under Part C.2 of the 
Project, a community social service activity under Part C.4 of the Project, or 
temporary community employment under Part C.3 of the Project; and (c) in compliance 
with environmental standards, satisfactory to the Bank, and in compliance with all 
applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower relating to health, safety and 
environmental protection.  
2.
The Sub-projects shall be carried out through the Service Providers selected by 
the relevant SYDV under Parts C.2 and C.3 of the Project, and by the SHCEK under   
Part C.4 of the Project, in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in 
the POM.
3.
The amount of each Sub-project shall not exceed: (a) the equivalent of $25,000 
under Part C.2 of the Project; (b) the equivalent of $50,000 under Part C.3 of the 
Project; and (c) the equivalent of $100,000 under Part C.4 of the Project.
4.
For the purposes of each Sub-project, the relevant SYDV under Parts C.2 and C.3 
of the Project, and the SHCEK under Part C.4 of the Project, shall conclude a 
Performance Agreement with the Service Provider in the form of the model provided in 
the POM.  The Performance Agreement shall include, inter alia:
(a)
 a description of the Sub-project, together with an estimate of the cost 
thereof;
(b)
 the amount to be provided to the Service Provider to assist in the 
carrying out of the Sub-project;
(c)
the implementation schedule for the Sub-project;
(d)
the obligation of the Service Provider to procure small works, goods and 
services to be financed under the Performance Agreement in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in the POM;
(e)
the obligation of the Service Provider to report to the SYDV under    
Parts C.2 and C.4 of the Project and to the SHCEK under Part C.3 of the Project, on 
the progress of Sub-project implementation and to enable representatives of the SYDV, 
SHCEK, the PCU and of the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, to visit the sites, and 
examine the goods, works and services financed by the Sub-project;
(f)
the obligation of the Service Provider to maintain records and accounts 
for expenditures incurred under the Sub-project and to submit, to the SYDV under     
Parts C.2 and C.3 of the Project, and to SHCEK under Part C.4 of the Project, at 
regular intervals statements with respect to such records and accounts; and
(g)
agreement of the Service Provider to have the Sub-project to be suspended 
or terminated upon the Service Provider’s failure to perform the obligations set forth 
in the Performance Agreement.
