                                                                                                                   92508
Turkey: Pocket-money for School - And a Way Out of Poverty                                                         March 31, 2006
                                                 ERZURUM, Turkey - In February 2005, Cinar Turk, an illiterate 34-year old mother of
                                                 three, took a minibus down a winding road from her village of Camliyamac, in a
                                                 mountainous corner of eastern Anatolia, to a small office building in Uzundere, the nearest
                                                 town. There, she presented a piece of paper to an official, pronounced her name and
                                                 received 120 new Turkish lira (roughly 90 dollars) from the state.

                                                 The amount was modest but for Turk it meant everything – a critical helping hand to send
                                                 her two teenage daughters and 9-year-old son to school. “It’s money we can spend on
                                                 pencils, shoes and uniforms, so the children don’t feel humiliated at school,” she says,
                                                 recalling the transaction. Just back from school, her daughter Sarga, 13, hands neatly
                                                 resting on her grey pleated skirt, sits proudly by her side.

                                             In an effort to tackle poverty and improve living standards for the next generation, the
Turkish government has helped tens of thousands of mothers cover essential child-rearing expenses under the Social Risk Mitigation
Project, financed by a World Bank loan.

The handouts known as Conditional Cash Transfers go to the poorest six percent of households, provided parents send their children to
school or have them vaccinated when they’re young. As of October 2005, this assistance had reached 1.9 million (roughly nine out of 10)
of the poorest children in Turkey.

The Social Risk Mitigation Project’s initial goal was to soften the impact of Turkey’s 2001
economic crisis on poor households with emergency assistance, and improve their
capability to cope with similar risks in the future.

In the process, the project has strengthened a network of 931 state-run Social Solidarity
Foundations that are now better able to reach out to the poor, identify their needs and
improve their prospects. Foundations, which used to distribute food and other benefits on
an ad hoc basis, now have access to a computerized system and a clearly defined target
group.

Reaching out to the poorest

The need for social assistance is particularly severe in eastern Anatolia, far from the
dynamism of Istanbul, Izmir or Ankara.

In this remote region, where Turkey leads up to the Caucasus, with Armenia and Georgia beyond, Erzurum serves as a magnet for
economic migrants but has too few jobs to offer.

                                                 The city of 400,000 people boasts a cement and a sugar factory, a large university and a
                                                 ski resort but as many as 40% of the population are unemployed according to Hanlar
                                                 Idem, the province’s sub-governor.

                                                 Many people, like Cinar Turk’s husband, living in a village in the northern part of the
                                                 province, have only seasonal jobs on construction sites or in agriculture - jobs that leave
                                                 them ill-equipped to face harsh winters, let alone invest in their children’s future.

                                                Today the Erzurum Social Solidarity Foundation distributes coal and food to roughly
                                                10,000 families in the area, and Conditional Cash Transfers to 1,939 households. Its
                                                headquarters borders a neighborhood of shanties known as gecekondu, a term which
                                                means “built in one night.”
                                                 
On the first snowy day of the season, in mid-October, Haluk Ilhan, a social worker with the Foundation, and Arap Peker, a neighborhood
official known as the muhtar , prepare to make the rounds of a desolate maze of freezing flat-roofed huts, huddling a few minutes by a
small coal stove.

“This is a harsh district,” warns the muhtar. “Out of 30,000 people, maybe 70% are unemployed. Some have small jobs in the grey
economy where they are paid dirt-cheap wages. Others use their bodies, carrying things for others.”

Ilham, the social worker, adds: “Poverty triggers crime and affects performance in school. Of course it all boils down to a lack of education
- and education, in the long run, is the only solution .”

But what seems like a statement of the obvious, runs in fact against daunting obstacles in this impoverished part of Turkey.
Male joblessness, female illiteracy - general hardship

Makbule Ulucay is a case in point. Perched on her roof with a broom in hand, the 53-year
old widow was trying to clear snow before it seeped into her house below. An illiterate
Kurdish-speaking migrant, Ulucay has eight children but only one boy goes to school.

One is performing his military service, another cleans dishes and “the rest are girls”, she
says. “If I had received help earlier, I would have sent the girls too but they are too old
now,” she laments.

Next door is a family crowded into a thread-bare living room where water is dribbling from
the cieling into a blue plastic bucket. The father is unemployed, the mother illiterate. Two
out of five children are mentally disabled. One son completed his basic education and
would have continued on to a vocational school but his family could not afford the
registration fee. Only a 15-year old girl in stained trousers and tousled hair is going to
school these days.

                                                 The mother received money from the Social Solidarity Foundation twice last year and is
                                                 waiting impatiently for a new installment. Ilhan, the social worker reassures her: payments
                                                 will be made as soon as school attendance records are updated, he says.

                                                 Knock on any door and you will hear the same story of male joblessness, female illiteracy
                                                 and general hardship.

                                                 The neighborhood muhtar complains that literacy classes for women over the age of 15
                                                 have not been successful because husbands and fathers bar women from attending. The
                                                 Conditional Cash Transfers, on the other hand, go directly to mothers who have an
                                                 interest in breaking the cycle of illiteracy and poverty they themselves have endured.

                                                 More girls are in school today

In fact, evidence shows that public campaigns to educate girls are beginning to pay off. According to the local branch of the Ministry of
Education, 1,500 more girls enrolled in school in Erzurum in 2005 compared to the previous year.

And in remote villages like Camliyamac, where the local school was recently repainted, the
attendance of girls matches that of boys. The village mayor of Camliyamac credits the
Turkish government’s public campaign, the influence of TV and increased cultural
awareness for changing family behavior in the last 10 years.

Investments in school rehabilitation, under “My Beautiful School Project,” a component of
the World Bank’s Social Risk Mitigation Project, are also sending the right message.

Sitting in a house of mud, wood and scrap,
Cinar Turk is determined to help her
daughters escape her plight. “I will send
my daughters to school as long as I can,“
she says, raising her voice to a passionate
pitch.

“I will force my way till the end. School is
an exit, not necessarily for us, but for the
girls. It will help them save themselves.”

                     * * *

Conditional Cash Transfers are a component of the Social Risk Mitigation Project (2001-2006), supported by a $500 million loan from the
World Bank. 

Initially published in December 2005
