FROM : WORLD BANK OFFICE-ANs(ARA                 TEL NO. :                            AU. 14 2001 15:57        S3
14--UG-2001   11:57           DIS F                                    90 312 2128737     P.01
OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
The Word Eank                                 1818 M    Nr M N.W.        <t2) wl-123s
WMNAMNAL     N PR PO8C0NRMTION AND DeVLOPMs  w g. 0o. m3           abb   ~    INTWAD
lk%MAGNÅwA  EOff~ ~T ~A~                Uj^.                       cabb~ fdi..:4VAs
Au~gss 13,2001
Mr. Emn E)r2
D11ector Genral of
P~nig Eonomic Relaons
Undusecuariat of Trasury
Re Japanse trant for the      or So  t Rink beUgadn
rohut Grant.Number TP
Der Mr. Ekrn:
I am w~ridg oo behialf of the Inteaonal Bank for Reconrnction and Devlopmnt
(the Bank) to indca te Bank's agreem, a adminam of gram f      pnd r povidd by the
moveinimnt of ;apn, to mae a grant im out not excedhag fiva hmndd elghy thousand
United Sttes Dollars (USS8O,00 (tc Gra) to Republic of Turay (the Recipten).
The Grant il made in Mepns to thaRecipet's rque t for fnancial isamne and for the
u      8 and on th term and condions M fffh in the Annex to thid Lätter Ageem=c. The
eln mprepsents, by caofiUrnng t anmem   below, ha It is mabzed to contact and
withdraw the Grat for th k sid pupss and on th said tmm and condidos.
Plase coairm your agrt~eat with tho fregIMng, on behiaf of the Reciplet, by
signing, dating, and ruring to us the eno~sd copy of this Let~r Agrbmnt. Tpon receipt by
the Bank of the capy of this Lear Ag~umw co utnrid by you, this Leer Agziemnt will
be»ome effadv   s of the date of the countersugaunn.
INTMERNATIONAL BANK FOR         laIkrION AND DEVELOPMENT
Acting Countay Diector: Turkny
County Dqu~tmnt VI
Euope and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
REPUBIC OF TURKEY
By:
Date: August 3, 2001


﻿FROM : WOC8LD BANK OFFICE-ANKARA                TEL NO. :                              AäU. 14 2001 15:58       S4
14-W-2001    11157           DIS EKO. ILI.[ON,MD.                      90 312 2128737      P.02
Purpouu~, Terms, and Condffids of the Grant
1.1.   The pupw of the Grmat is to assit tU Reipient tbrough it Social Solidaity Fund
(SYDTF) in the preparadon of Social Risk MKtigation Pojoct, which bad a maib ooctvo to
strengthen the social safety net in Turkey and to help th human capital of the poar (the Project).
Tl comnpoots and activitim (the Acttivs) for whlh the Grant is given are as follows:
(1)      Social Assi~tnte Poicy Developent Componcct,
Provisiou of technical bustanc to prpr  (i) a socia asessmnt (ii) a study an poicy
~ramework fo quick disburemnt; (111) a stdy on linking Informaion sy*tems for health and
edutcaion to Condidtonal Cub  Transfärs (CC); (iv) a social sabty-net usmsmnt (v) a cost
benafit analysis of CCr; and (vi) a study to develop targeting rnechanism. Thse activities are
esdmated to cost USS290,866.
(b)       titudoeai StrengthUing Componeant;
Provision of tocnical assisunc to: (a) t ength e he Social Sölldarity Fund (SYDTP) through:
(1> implemsndag an canapment Uinadof sysUm         sewanb: and (I) inadtudonal
assssment: and (b) support a poverty moni~adng sytem throgh: (i) prepatlan of a housebold
income and oxpenditure survey dosgn (i1) creatlon of povery anatyg  unit (PAU) in Stat
insitut# of Stlasdes of thO Recipient; (U) pr*paration of a repid Ussessmönt swvqy; and <iy)
punel follow-up suivey. Thete acivides ue sdmated to coat US$270,954.
(c) Project Devlopment Componernn
Provision of technical assistance to develop the Project providing support to Prjec preparadon
manag    (ii) prucurement  ecialistr disburement specialist;  modtodng  and evaluadon
specialist. Thesö aciti  ar cstmted to ms US$18,1g.
2.     Implemem          rY
2.1.   The Recipient, trough the SYDTF, abell: (a) any out the Activities with duo dUlgen  and
officiecy, (b) promply provide the «nd, faelltisa, wrics and other resource r id for that
purp~e: (c) Udrnish al InfoMadoc covring the Actaities and t use of the proceds of the Grant
a the Bank shall aonably requet: (d) from dme to time exhange vlows with the Baukb
rpmsnmaves on the progress and rsults of the Activties and (8) tke a necsy measMres
required to wuable the Bank to visk the terrtory of the Recipient for parposs rsated to t*  rant.
Without limitation on the foreging. d Recipient sll. If die Bank shall 8o request. prepar and
furish to the Bank pompdy upon corpiedon of the Acdvides a repmst In fkrm and substan
uatisfactory to tho Bank. on the reuks and Imupact of de Activities


﻿FROM :ORLD BANK OFFICE-ANKPRP                     TEL NO. -                             ACU. 14 2001 15:59       S5
14-RUU-2001    119.58         DIS FRO.ILI,GN.MD.                       90 312 2128737      P.03
2
3.     pcri
3..   Exept as the bank shail oherwise agrs, pr~ em  of goods and conultams' servIcsM
rmqired for the carrying out af the Acdyes ad to be financed out of tbe proceed of th Gvwt
shall be govered by the provsions of Attachmet I to this Annm.
3.2.   The R~cipiein shall enso that alI imorted goods to bo fuamnced out of tbe procs  of the
Grant shaU be inared aginst ards in~idet to die aqution, transpctetin and dellvey thereof
to the place of um or inatalladi, and that any ~idemnity for uch Inmurance ts payabl in a frely
uuabke crrency to replce or repair such goods. The Recipien §hall cau that any facilities
relevan to t  Activties are at all times operate and mantancd in acccdance with appropiate
p~tces and that any repars or rmnewalh of such facilities am pompfly made as needed.
4.     WithdrawaloRG
4.1.   The amun of the Grn shal b credsed to en accounT opened by the Rank on 1t books In
th    a    the Recipen (the Grant Account), and may be withdmawn dm~t om by the ~ ~ciplemin
accordance with the p~ ~isions of this Secdon 4 for expendärm in  ~ respect of the feao  cot of
goods and services requred for the Activitio and to be flnan~dout of fe procds of the Grant.
4.2.   Te expdituru ftr de foowing it=ms may  filaaned  of the  roceeds of the Grant
and bail be used exclusivoly in th crryng omt of the A:vli~:
Am~lun of he Orant                 % of
Aloga~d                  Exponditu to
Atm                 fin United grated Dttcdarul      >e Fiand
(1) Consultnts servica               S44,000                    100%
(2) Goods                              16.000            100% offadgn expunditures.
100% of local ependars
(w-factory c~) and 82% of
local ~xpenditres for other
äama prcwld locuy
TOTAL
Por puposes or (t pmgraph the wm "~atogn expnditurerA " man expenit   in the cuncy
of any country other than that of me R~c~piet for good or evces apped from the terrt or
any country other thm  dha of t Reilt and the =ra "loc9 expwnditr      mcans any
expndues that am not foreig    xpeoditures, provided..bowver, that If tig currency of th
Roipl<nt is also that of another country ftom the tonitory of whch goods or srv s  e suplied
oxpenduar in such cu ency for such goods or servtes shall bo domed to be foreign uditures.
4,3.   Notwlthstanding the pro~iis of paagraph 4.2 above:
(a)    No witbdrawala shal be made fr the Grant Accoun: (1> for paymes~ made for
expnditurnm prior to the date of signatur of iså Letter Agr~ement by the ~ank (il)  e con  of
paymnts for any taxes levlmd by or In the mterrory of the Ralpient; (iii) on acco t of expendittuos
in db territories of any ~ounty whicb Is not a 'nmber of the Bank or for goods produced in or
servicos supplied From such territorias; or (iv) for dia purpose of any payment o p~rson or mndde,


﻿FRO(1 : WORLD BANK OFFICE--ANKARA                  TEL NO. PU. 14 201 15:59                                        S6
14-AU3-200    11:58           D:s EKO. IL I. UN, MD.                    90 312 2128737      P.04
3
or for any import of good, if such Payment or iMport. to tbc Bank' knowledge, is probibited by a
decslon of the United Nations Seculty Council taken undur Chaper VD of the Charter of the United
Nadions;
(b)    No withdrawalt shall be made from the Ont Accoun after Novmber 13, 2001 or
$ch lar dara that the BniX shall mahUsh by nca to thw ecpint (th cosing Date), provided
thL sxcep In special crcu=mstances the Closiu Dat shall not be extended beyond the expected
dat* of Bank pproval of flaanclrz for the Pr~ec. mowever, withdrawas may boemde aer the
Clouing Date fug oxpondituem inund prdor to the Cosing Date if the eenrepending ~wthdrwaL
appllcation is receied by tho Bank withi foUr month after the csing Date, aer w~ich dm. any
wmoun of the Grant retaining unwithdrawn f:om de Orant Account shal be cancel4d and
(e) If. in the Bank'a opinion. an amount of t Gant allocated to any of the it~ms in the
tablo in paaa  4.2 aboy* will be inufficiont to finance the expenditus for such item, tho Bank
my. by writtcn noic to Ue R~cipient. =mjcate to mch item an amount of the Q(mkt the alocated
to anoher iem which, In the Bank's opinion, wil nom bo nccemary to meet other expenditurm
4.4.   Wien the  teclpient shall d~re to witdadw any amount from d" Grant Account, it shal
doliver to the Bank a wrten appliendon for widrawal af such amount in the fin spcifid by the
Bank Withdrawal applicado  seha be:- <a) signed by the au~hizd rep tsnitiv of the Recipient
uihord  by the General Directorat. of Foreign £ooc  R#~atons of the Undersee taat of
Treasury of th R~cipiem  and (b) accomprded by su~ evidmnce In suppot of the qpptcaion as the
Bank abal remanably roqest Aumhndcaed specon mgnatues of the pe n authedaad to sign
wthd wal applcdooea  g hal be prov,ed with tU first application baring bh oar h  åiguattue.
Each withdrwal appUcadon tor an amot of th Grant and Ita suppr ting evYdenom  mat be
~    iufmciet In firna and substan to uadsfy the Bankt hthe RCipant s entitled o wh~dw auch
amount fom the Grat Account and da OMch amount is to be u d in the c~ning out of the
Acvities. The Bank haI pay the  Mou  w~thdrwn by the R~cipint from the Grant Account
only to oroa the ordr of te Racipient.
4.5.   The Bank may requre withdrawals fom d Grant Account to be made cm the basis of
statoents of expenditurg for expendie under  Ewats fir: (a)  rvces of coMulting firm
coung less dm USg100,000 quivalen each; (b) services of Indvidunl comutauts casting less than
US$50.000 equivalent each; and (c) goods. al uder such terms and conditions as the Bank shui
spsCify by nodCe o t cpiL
4.6.   W~dawas of the proceedaf tde Grant sall bo mede In the cunncy of the Gramt. The
Bank at the Rcipient'S r*quet and actig u an agert of the R~cipisnt, sall purchase with th
cun=y of the Grant withdrawn rom the Gran Account puch currencIes s sal bo requred to pay
for expendius to be flnaced ouc of the proceed ofthe oGrnt. WhMnöver it #all be necesary, for
the purposes of this Ltter Agreement. to dee~rne the value of om oamcy in trr= of anoher,
such value sh~l be as reasably detmined by the Bank.
4.7.   To facIutate the caryig out of öhe Actvt, the Rcipint may open and maintain in
Unked gtaes dola  a special deposit accoun (tho Specia Acoun  In the Central Bank. of the
Rscpient' on terms and conditioneatsfactory to the Ban 1inlui ej  pceeden agaiast
aet.off, #eivå or asachment. Deposits nte. and paym nts ow of, the Spedal Accont aa be made
If accordace with the proviuions of Atacohment II to this Annex.
To boe confirm  by 7M


﻿FROM: WORLD BANK OFFICE-ANKARA                   TEL NO. :AU. 14 2001 16:00                                      7
14-PU-2001    11:59           DIS EKO.I.GN.MD.                         90 312 2128737     P.05
4
$,     AccounandAudits
5.1.   (a)   Ie Recipisn Lough the SYDF, shall mntan or case to be wanned a
financal management systeM, inchding cord and accountz, od propa= financial ettmeats in a
format aceab1e to the Bank, adequate to refeot in accordance with sound accountlg prmctias he
opradons, resources and exponditum rolaod to de Activities.
(b)   Ie Recipient, hrougb  e SYDTF, shall: (I) have the reco4s, accou= and
financial atemeuta mfird to In subpragrph (t) a~oe and the rcords and accounts ibr tho
Spocial Account for 9ach fiscal year audited, In accodmnce with auditing standards accup~ble to the
Bank, consixtently applied, by the Truaury Conttolors of the Recipiet; <i) firnih w the Bank as
soon as available, but In any cas not later dn six mots aft the end of each such )ear, (A)
cerdfied copies of de fincial same tned to In ptrgraph (a) of this Socion fbr such yar as
sa audibd. and (0) n opinin on mch s=temnw, records and nocounts and pOr of tach audit, by
said auditors, of auch acope and in such deal as da Bank shal have asmably rfquested; and (III)
furnih to tie Bank such othr inlfadon comri:g aid rcords and accennta and tbe audit
thereof, and concming ydd audo, as th Bank shal ftom time to tim easonably rquest
(e)    For al expendftr s with resp c to which withdrawala fom the VÅ at Acount
wr made on thU basis of staterntå of expenditue, the Rcpit, though the SYDTF, ahåll: (1)
manain or cue to bo malntained. n accordance with subparagraph (a) abov, r åcorda and accounts
urffcting such wxpenditures; (i) mtan, until at leat om yar aftr the Bank has rcelved dh audlc
report for the f~scal ytar in wich the last wkhdwal from the orant Account was made, all ~n:rds
(conrcts, orts, Invocs, bigs, receips and other domente) evencing suchexpendt;u; (113)
enable the Bank's reprsentatives to examinv sch mb ods n~ d (Iv) am* that mich tecords an
account are 1nd  in the annual audit rferd to n suAbpamgraph (b) ahove and that the report of
such audit contains a separate opinion by sid uditmrs as to whether the sa   of a:ependiau
submitted durng such ficl y~ar, togeher with d* proedums and Internal coals Involved In their
paparaion. can be relied upon to suppomt he relaed wichdrawa.
6.
6.1.   The Bank may at my time, by nota to the ReipiCnt, su~mnd the dght of the ciplut to
make furthor withdrawals ffom tbe Grant Account Ifay of bhe followag events bas ocurred and is
continuing: (a) the RecipIent ba filed to comply with any of ita obligadons herin specifiedt or (b)
the right of the Reciplem, or any other mntity to which om Iank has made    an with dhe guamtom
of the Recipient. to ake wi mtdrawuls under my loan ageemnt with the Bank or any devolopment
credit agrment with th ltemadonel Development Assocadom tall have ben suspended,
6.2. The Bank may, by written udce to the Recipient, terninato the right of the Röcpient to
make ~tmher withrawals ftom the Grant Account: (a) at my time aer t *ight of the Recpin to
maka w~dawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pirsamt to the provislons of
pr~giph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have faied to tak action, uatisfactory to ti Rank
within six inonths after the effective da hereof, to cary out (h Acdvides; or (c> If the Bank has
dcided. at any tima After consultation with the R~cipin, to w ~tdraw ha ~uppor to the Proct or
(d) if the  cpient, has withdrawn it requet fbr tU Bank's a~ssistce in financing the Prjc.t


﻿FROM :WORLD BANK OFFICE-ANKARA                   TEL NO. :AU. 14 2001 16:01                                     S8
I4-AU0-2001   12: 00         r,S1 EKO, I Ll. GN, r0.                   90 312 2128737     P.06
5
Attachment I
Procurement
Sectio. Comultants' Servies
Egiaz: 90Agral
Cosultants' serces shall be prured in accordane with the provos of the
lItroduction and Sedon IV of the "Guidelings: S~lction and Employmnt of Coguan  by
World Bank Borrowers,. published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in Sep mber 1997
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guldeines). and the following provisions of this Section 1.
I.     guLetin Based on C  ICftant  liata
Servces for the prpation of a social asmsm   n, coududug semi-stuctwred
tntorviews, an assessmens of social saIsty net, a omt benefit aualyis of CC  developiag
targeting meanin4 an insdutional usmssment, a Information management. design and
analysis of houseo d survys, caring out a utudy on policy r~nwork kr quikk disburement,
on linking information 4ystm fot ~cahb and ~duaton to CCT design atinaly representative
sampla under paragraph 11 (a) and (b) of the Annex etimated to cos less ha US1O,OOO
equivalenct per cootract may be p~ocued unde ctracts awardd  in a~ordane. wth the
provistona of paragaphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant uideine,
2.     [ndivna'     unM
Services f<x oaring out atudy on policy tenswork for quick disbuurnent , a study on
linkäng infrmation system for health and öducadon to CCT, an assesunt of social salty mot.,
cost benetit analysit of CCT, doveloping targetång :chanism, poverty mtoriing system,
preparedon ra   r and disbursement and prociument xprtis undu pamagraph 1.1 (a), (b)
and (*) of the Annex taks that mect the requirent smt fbrth f paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant
Quidelnes shall be procured under cotrcts awrded to individual consultantz in accordance
with the provicions oftparagraphs 5.1 throufh 5.3 of the Consultan Gudelines,
Ea   : Review by the Bank of th& Salanton of Conltarna
1. Selection Planininu
Prior to- the iusuans to cosutante of ny requ~ts for propoal, the proposed plan ror
the solectin of consultaucs under the Activtes ha be furnish~d to the Bank for lis review md
approval, In accordance with the provislons of paragraph i of Appendix 1 to dhm Conultant
Guldelines. Selection oC all consultants' services shal be undertake In accordanc4 with such
selection plan as sall have been approvd by the Bank. and with the provisions of said
parugraph 1.


﻿ATU. 14 2001 16:01       S9
FROM :WO4RLD BANK OFFICE-ANKARA                 TEL NO. .
14-PLG-2001   12! 00         DIS E  . ILI.GN.MD.                     90 312 2123377     P.07
6
2 riReviw
(a)    With respct to each conact for the omployment dt csuldng fma esmated
to cost the equlvalent of US$100,0 or mom, the procedur s set forth it parapha 1, 2 (other
than the third subparahrph of paragraph 2 ()) and 3 of Appendix 1 t the Consultant Guidellnet
shall apply.
(b) With respect to e"ch contrmct far the employment of indivldual consultantt
.sdmatöd to cot the equivalut of US$S5,00O ar mor. the qualifoadonL expericoe, terms of
referenca and terms of amployment of the conuat* hal be urmishd to the Bank for ha prior
review and approval. '1c contract shall be awarded oly after suid approvl hall baye been
given.
3.     PoswEt
With respect ta each contac not govrned by pragraph 2 of this Part, the procedu  st
torth in prgraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Coasultant Guldélnes shai~ apply.
Goods #hall bo procuxd: (a) in accodmnce with the provislons of Section I of the
"Gudclincs for Procw=emt under IBRD Lmn and :DA Crmdh%" publhd by te Bankc in
Janury 1995 and reviMd in lauary and August 1996, geptember 1997 and January 1999 (the
Guidulines); and (b) under contracts awanied ca d bast@ of shopplag procedms in secordInce
with the provisons ef pagraphe 3.5 and 3.6 og 'te (uidelineL The review prcedures set fork
in pagaph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidunes shaW apply to mch contr~cts, provided that the
<                    word "bids", n sach parraph 4, åball bs read  u~otation.


﻿FROM    WORLD BANK OFFICE~ANKARA                  TEL NO.                               PöU, 14 201     16:02     sie
Vit EKO, 'I,GN.IID. ~90 312 2128737                           P.og
7
Attach*ment II
Specia Account
L.     For th purpose of iå Attuht:
(a)    the term 'dIgibhe Irms" mns he Itmmr (1) and (2at (oei     h* table in
paragrph 4,3 othe Annex tohis  ~nen
(b)    th term «eligibe expnd~Sis meansxpnditues in rst of the rea~sln å
to goods and seca requiråd för the Atda a    te b* 9u d ou of the proceeds of ohe
Grunt,ud
(c)    the tom "Authxried  Aocation"m~ an mount  quivaJnt to LMSO0W0 to
be widw      *rom te Grant Acont ud depodt   d int the Speelal Acount puaant to
pargaph 3 (a) of tig AUaehmanL
2.     Paymentå out of the Spcial Account  a  bo made eaively for  IglMe expenditun
accorcdace i4th the poviscais of ddes Affach~mnt
3.    Aer the Bank has eceived eydeknmc Xstmctory to i tha dce Specdal Acco~nt has befn
duy upened, w  ziduawais of fe A~utsed Alomdon and subseque withdrawals o mpienis the
Specia Aa:oa shaIl be made as föllows
(a)    The Recplat shau unIsh to tu Bak atquest or requets f(r a depoi into the
Special Aucou of a a munt or amuts wich de at excecd as aggngaS amout er the
Authorized Aaodon. On the basis of Ush "    r (tqueus, thn Bank shall oa bo~if of Mö
Rcipint, withdraw b    tbc Grant A=count  deposi io the Sp00191 AccOunt uch amoun  r
amounts as th. Recipient shaii have regnot.
(b)    (i)    For replenishnt of the Special Acoun. the Reipicot hai fuanish to
th Bank reqs for dposit into the Speciul Acount at mch Intrvals as
dh. Bank shall #pecif.
(ii)   Prir to or at the dm of cach such request, the Rcipiiet shall indsh to
the Buk the d6ciments fnd other evidence required pursunt to
paragraph 4 of this Attactuueot for the-'payment or payments in reapect of
which replenistbnemt is suqueste. On the basis of ach sucht request the
Bank shual, onb he3w of the R.clpien; wlcbdraw fo hor Ots ant Acout,
and deposito the Special Accouni such amo.unt as the Recip,ient aba»
have requested and as shaU have beso shown by said documts and other
evideca havet been puid out of the Special Acount far aligible
aAccourt under the uHgible Im(m), and in the respective equvalent
rounts,     s    hvav b   jugdfatd by  id do    ents ad   ~
evidence,


﻿FROM    WORLD BANK OFFICE-ANKARA                  TEL NO. :AU. 14 2001 16:03                                      Sil
VIS EkU. ILI.UN.MD.                      9   312 21273       P.09
8
4.     For ach payment made by che ~cipeu out of the 8pecilu Accont, the Ripient shall, at
&uch time as the Bank hall rbasonably aq~  fmiali to    M B    a    m    a    o
evience howing that such paymnt was                )e ~11y3 oUibe .zp aRUC R
3.     Notwithstanding me provisi&Ms of paruMph 3 at this Aachment th* Bank shan not be
requtd to mako ther deposits jato h Specal Accutt
(a)    If, at any tIe, the Bank haill han denond that all ft~er wi~hrawale should
be made by the R cient direcdy frm the Omt Ac~oun
(b)    if the Redplet t shall hbv Mid ta ftfi to the bank witift  e pero of tMie
specifled in pagraph 5. 1 (b) <I) of the Annx to tds  ~ar A# m  any f e adk tbpv~ r~
requirod to be furniöhed to Uhe Bank pursunt to uMd paragraph la e~pect of the udli of h uorde
and accounts for the Speciat Accoua
(c)    If. at any dm, the Bank sha hav nedflod the R0cpin of its intendon to Mspnd
in whol¥ or tt part 0he ight of te Red~pien to make wihdnewals from tbc Grant Accoumt puruat
to the poIsion of paragraph 6,1 of the Ann  to ths aUerArement; or
(d)     mce the total unwidrawn amount of tho Grant #hall cqua  e equivalent of twice
de amoun of the Autborized Allocdun.
erfter, wihdrawals from the Grant Account of the muaåing uwdrawA amont of th Orant
fhall foRow ah procedur e s the Bank shall sp~i by nutI to the Rec   Such fther
withdawa all bg made oly after and to the etet that he Bank shall have been sadf~ad that au
auch armounts ~emalig on deposit In d speolal Acount as a th date of Tuc  iode will be
udliced in madng pyments for eligible expendiuras.
6.      a     If the Bank shal have deeined at any dme dat any pyMMat out of the Special
Acount: (i) was made for an expenditut or ta an amaunt not aligible puruat to P   2'o
this AUachment; or (tt) was not jusdfied by the evidence fuhed to the  ~k, the K t saa.
pmmpty upon uotta from the Bank: (A) provide suc addidnal ovidoce as the Bank may
rcquesl; or (B) deposit Lata te Special Accoumt (o If de Bank shall so  qust, refnd to thw iank
an amount equai to the amount of suich pyXnat r the pron 0eof act so e becj %
Unless %e Bank shall otewis agma, o wAther d~poit by the  ank into the Special Account
Sha be  ade undi the Recipient ha provided  suc evidnce or made suc depasit or aufud, as the
cas Mnay be.
(b)    le the Bank hall 1hav dtrm ed at my dmabla Roy am           % inthe
SeliA~cut wal not bi  aué o    MP ve r ut  p&~met for ~Uile ex      ludbw4 t4
a      , pr~y upon oa          th   a   rfud to   B ank
TOTn. P.09


