FILE COPY                                 Dto
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL US1 ONLY
Rqlt No. P-2274-So
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR THE
MOGADISHU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
May 12, 1978
15dumeat bm a relcted dllbW. Ed MY b weed bY rlet ouly In Ure perfema  of
teir  icl dodo. Its e"_ti  mY FnM  tbrwle be dieedbe withot World Bek autwlnflo.



SOMALIA
MOGADISHU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
I-
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(CY 1977 and March, 1978)
1 US$             =  Somali Shilling (So. Sh. 6.295)
1 Somali Shilling - US$0.1589
WEIGHTS, LENGTHS AND MEASURES
mm         =  millimeter (0.03937 inches)
cm         = centimeter (0.3937 inches)
m          =  meter (39.37 inches)
km         =  kilometer (0.62 miles)
2          -  square kilometer (0.386 square mile or 247 acres)
m          =  cubic meter (220 Imperial gallons or 264.2 US gallons)
1          =  liter (0.220 Imperial gallons or 0.264 US gallons)
1/sec      =  liters per second (19,005 Imperial gallons per day or
3            22,824 US gallons per day)
m /sec     =  cubic meters per second (19.0 million Imperial gallons
per day or 22.8 million US gallons per day)
lpcd       =  liters per capita per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDF                 =  African Development Fund
ENEE                 =  Exite National Energia Electrica
(National Electrical Agency)
GIBB                 -  Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners
Germany              =  Federal Republic of Germany
GTZ                  =  Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit,
Gmbh (German Agency for Technical Cooperation, Ltd.)
MWA                  =  Mogadishu Water Agency
MMWR                 m Ministry of Minerals and Water Resources
PPF                  -  Project Preparation Facility
SIDAM                = Somalia Institute of Development Administration and
Management
UK                   =  United Kingdom
USAID                =  United States Agency for International Development
WDA                  = Water Development Agency
WHO                  =  World Health Organization
WRDC                 = Water Resource Development Comittee
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SOMALIA - MOGADISHU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          Somali Democratic Republic
Beneficiary:      Mogadishu Water Agency and Somali Government
Amount:            US$6.0 million equivalent
Terms:             Standard
Relending Terms:  About US$5.9 million from proceeds of the credit
would be onlent to Mogadishu Water Agency for a
period of 20 years, including 4 years of grace,
at an interest rate of 7 percent per annum.
Project            The Project is intended to provide a small increase in
Description:      production from Mogadishu's existing well field while
at the same time assisting in the preparation of a larger
second project. The Project consists of:
(a) Water resource investigations;
(b) Construction work including: the extension of
Balad Road well field; the extension and modifi-
cation of transmission, electric power and pumping
facilities; the extension of water distribution
grid and construction of about 40 additional public
hydrants; and the construction of workshop and field
staff quarters;
(c) Procurement of vehicles and maintenance, workshop,
communications, laboratory and water treatment
equipment;
(d) Advisory, technical assistance and consulting
services.
Benefits and Risks:
The urban poor would be the main beneficiaries of the
project. As a result of the project, water supply
would be extended to an additional 29,000 urban poor
in Mogadishu. The main risks would be that, because
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



of institutional weaknesses, construction may be
delayed thus further extending water shortages in
Mogadishu, and that operation and maintenance may
be inadequate.
Estimated
Project Cost:
US$ Thousands                    % of
Local Cost   Foreign Cost   Total Cost    Total
Civil Works                        936          1,565          2,501        32.5
Equipment                          127          1,161          1,288        16.7
Expatriate Advisors                 37            298            335         4.3
Project Management Unit             53             22             75         1.0
Training Component                 239            396            635         8.2
Consulting Services                173          1,347          1,520        19.7
Subtotal                       1,565         4,789           6,354       82.4
Contingencies
Physical                         234            611            845        10.9
Price                            131            389            520         6.7
Total Project Costs 1/           1,930          5,789          7,719       100.0
Financing Plan:                                                             Total
Internal Cash                  Financing
Beneficiary              IDA Credit       Generation      Goverment   Requirement
US$'000          US$'000        US$'000      US$'000
MWA                     5,954               854            850         7,658
WDA                        46                -              15            61
Total Costs               6,000               854            865         7,719
Estimated
Disbursements:                               US$ (Thousands)
1979               1980            1981         1982
1,950              2,550           1,050         450
1/   The Project would be exempted from taxes.



- iii -
Rate of Return:   9 percent (calculated on 62 percent of project costs),
Staff Appraisal   "Staff Appraisal Report, Mogadishu Water Supply Project -
Report:           Somalia" (No. 1860-SOM) dated May 10, 1978.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC FOR THE
MOGADISHU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Somali Democratic Republic for the equivalent of US$6.0 million
on standard IDA terms to help finance the Mogadishu Water Supply Project.
About US$5.9 million from proceeds of the credit would be onlent to Mogadishu
Water Agency for a period of 20 years, including 4 years of grace, at an
interest rate of 7 percent. The remaining US$0.1 million would be retained
by the Government for identification of the training needs of the National
Water Development Agency.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report 1421a-SO) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on April 18, 1977. An informal updating of
economic information took place in May/June 1977 and the next IDA economic
mission is scheduled for June 1978. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
3.        The Somali Democratic Republic was formed in 1960 by a merger of
the former Italian Trust Territory of Somalia and the British Protectorate
of Somaliland. Following a decade of parliamentary rule, the Government
was taken over by the military in 1969. The Supreme Revolutionary Council,
consisting of army and police officers became, in fact, the highest policy-
making body until mid-1976 when it was abolished and a political party, the
Somali Revolutionary Socialist Party, was formed and became the key political
institution.
4.        Since 1970 the Government has adhered to a program of "scientific
socialism", emphasizing egalitarianism and social justice, development through
the public sector, nationalization of certain foreign enterprises, and the
formation of cooperatives. While the Government has always stated that there
is room for private initiative in Somalia and several privately financed
projects have been implemented, the main emphasis has been given to develop-
ment of the public sector. The Government's development efforts have been
characterized by austerity and self-reliance.
5.        Somalia is located on the Horn of Africa with three thousand kilo-
meters of coastline on the Gulf of Aden on the north and the Indian Ocean on
the east. The topography varies from a hot and arid coastal plain, which
1/   This section is the same as that of the Technical Assistance Project.



-2-
gives way to sparsely wooded savannah, to rugged mountains, agricultural
plateaus and lowlands of varying fertility and rainfall. Much of the country
is arid; water supplies are scattered and often unreliable, and periodic
droughts bring hardship to both the people and their livestock. Only a small
proportion of the land, approximately 13%, is arable. While the existence of
several minerals has been confirmed, exploration is still in the early stages
and commercial viability remains to be proved. Short of other known resources,
Somalia's prospects center on agricultural and livestock development in
which progress will depend upon careful management of scarce land and water
resources.
6.        With an estimated per capita income in the order of US$110 in 1976,
Somalia is classified by the UN as one of the 25 least developed countries
of the world. Of the total population of approximately 3 million, about
two-thirds are nomads and semi-nomads, who depend on livestock for their
livelihood and about 20-25 percent are farmers cultivating land along the Juba
and Shebelli rivers and in the higher-rainfall North-West region. The small
monetary sector of the economy provides only limited opportunities for employ-
ment. Apart from the traditional export of livestock, commercial agriculture
is mainly centered on the production and export of bananas, in which Italian
concession holders are still important, and the production of sugar for the
domestic market. The expansion of manufacturing and other service sectors of
the economy is limited by the small size of the domestic market, poor infra-
structure, and the shortage of capital and entrepreneurial experience. No
income distribution data exist, but the Bank estimates that about 70% of the
population live at subsistence levels of about US$200-250 per family of five.
Social services are still very inadequate; the school enrollment ratio was
until recently among the lowest in the world but took a great leap forward
in the past two years. There is little economic data on Somalia. Even basic
figures such as GNP, population, number of livestock, or output of major
agricultural crops are only rough estimates. Therefore, it is extremely
difficult to measure economic performance except in a very rough and ready
manner.
Political Changes and their Economic Consequences
7.        The effect of recent political events on economic development policy
in Somalia is bound to be rather limited because of the lack of alternative
strategies to the one currently followed. However, some change was perceived
in recent months as evidenced by a revision (and liberalization) of the law on
foreign investment of 1960 and the reappointment of a technician as Chairman
of the Planning Commission.
8.        Since various state enterprises (such as the Chisimaio Meat Factory
and the Las Koreh Fish Factory) were organized with Soviet assistance, the
departure of Soviet technicians will cause problems in these firms and in the
Planning Commission, which also received Soviet personnel. However, the real
need for replacements is estimated to be substantially less than the number
of departures (estimated at 200-250 civilian technicians).



-3-
Development Planning Achievements
9.        The long-range objectives of the Government are strongly influenced
by the desire to be self-reliant. The Government is seeking to make the
country self-sufficient in agriculture through both an expansion of the area
under cultivation and the development of irrigation while trying to provide
permanent settlement for many of the nomads and putting considerable emphasis
on modernizing and mobilizing the population. Of central importance for
achieving these objectives are education, rural literacy and self-help pro-
grams such as those in agriculture and public works (referred to as "Crash
Programs"). Finally, the Government places emphasis on developing infrastruc-
ture, especially transportation and communications.
10.       Since the bulk of the population is engaged in herding or in subsis-
tence farming, a development strategy for Somalia must start with agriculture
and livestock as a base. The major development goals of the Somali Government
include self-sufficiency in foodgrains, the partial substitution of other food
imports (oils, rice) and improvement of the lot of the traditional nomadic
herdsmen through settlement programs and improvements in livestock production
and marketing facilities. The current Plan's emphasis on irrigated agricul-
ture is meant to make the country less dependent on the erratic pattern of
rainfall, and assure more stable and predictable increases in output. Atten-
tion is also being given to projects in rainfed agriculture (mainly through
the Government-financed Self-Help Programs, the IDA-financed Rainfed Crop
Production Project under the Juba-Shebelli Area Emergency Settlement Scheme
and the North-West Region Agricultural Development Project) which focus on
making the best use of the limited amount of rainfall. Improvements in
livestock production and marketing are being promoted by the IDA-financed
Trans-Juba Livestock Project designed to provide market access to the nomads
in the southern part of the country and the Kuwait Fund-financed Northern
Rangelands Project with emphasis on rehabilitation of the denuded rangelands
in the North. The Plan continues to base its development of industry on the
processing of domestic raw materials to substitute for imports.
11.       The 1974-78 Five Year Plan, as originally conceived, called for
investments of So.Sh. 3.9 billion and was probably overly ambitious, both with
respect to financial and implementation constraints. Because of inflation,
the cost of carrying out the same (physical) investment program will now
require an additional So.Sh. 1 billion. A review of Plan implementation after
three years shows (financial) rates of implementation of 46.2%, 40.8% and 77%
in 1974, 1975 and 1976, respectively. If adjustments for investments outside
the Plan (mainly drought relief and rehabilitation) were made, they would show
implementation rates (in financial terms) of about 60% in 1974 and 55% in
1975. In absolute terms, annual investment therefore increased from about
So.Sh. 340 million in 1973 to an average of So.Sh. 500-600 million in 1974-75
and to about So.Sh. 700 million in 1976 which suggests that annual investment
in real terms is increasing. However, it also seems that an essentially
financial constraint in 1974 has turned into an implementation constraint
in 1976. The implementation constraint is particularly acute as the result



-4-
of a sharp exodus of skilled Somalis to the neighboring oil-exporting
countries.
12.       The Government's achievements over the past several years have
been impressive by any standard. Before the present Government came to
power in 1969, the economy was stagnant and the Government often in severe
financial difficulties. Today the pace of development (as measured by public
investment) has quickened and a far higher level of public services is being
supplied.
13.       Two fields where the Government's achievements have been particu-
larly outstanding have been in the settlement of nomads and in education.
Within a period of less than one year beginning in the summer of 1975, more
than 100,000 nomads were transported from the arid rangelands of the North
and settled on unutilized agricultural areas in the South. Small harvests
have already been reaped and this has encouraged both the Government and the
settlers. In education, the Government has concentrated on two aspects:
basic education (literacy and numeracy) for all people, young and old, to
enable them to effectively participate in the social, economic and political
process; and specialized manpower training as a requirement for national
development. With respect to the former, the mass literacy campaign conducted
in the years 1973, 1974 and 1975 at a cost of So.Sh. 100 million (US$16 mil-
lion) has resulted in an increase in the adult literacy ratio from about 5
percent to about 50-60 percent, according to Government estimates. The formal
primary school enrollment ratio has risen from less than 15 percent of the
relevant age group a few years ago to approximately 34 percent at present,
and universal primary education may be reached by the mid-1980's. A script,
introduced by the Government in 1972, made the writing of the Somali language
possible for the first time, and this removed one of the major constraints to
progress in the field of education. With respect to manpower development,
the Government is concentrating on the training of high- and middle-level
personnel in its principal development sectors--agriculture and livestock.
Recent Economic Performance
14.       Poor rainfall in 1973 and a virtual absence of rain during 1974 and
the first half of 1975 led to widespread crop failures. The drought hurt ex-
ports of livestock and bananas, the two largest earners of foreign exchange,
and resulted in large imports of maize, sorghum, rice and sugar. The entire
central and northeastern parts of the country were affected, as well as a
large part of the population, mostly nomads. In 1976, the Somali economy ex-
perienced a further slight recovery from the effects of the serious drought
of 1973-75, mainly on account of continued expansion in Government expendi-
ture, which contributed to substantial increases in overall investment and
consumption.
15.       Since 1973, production and exports of bananas have continued to de-
cline and export volume in 1976 amounted to 72,500 metric tons, only 54 percent
of the 1972 level. It is expected to have fallen further in 1977, partly be-
cause of a disruption in exports to the Middle East on account of a commercial
dispute. Because of a flood which seriously affected growing areas in late
1977, recovery of production and exports of bananas may be delayed further.



-5-
A partial recovery in output of local food grains was evidenced by increases
in marketed quantities in 1976/77 when the Agricultural Development Corpora-
tion purchased 54,000 tons of grains, up from 45,000 tons the previous year,
but only 55 percent of the predrought level.
16.       Somalia's manufacturing sector consists of a few relatively large-
scale public-owned enterprises and a large number of small private enterprises.
In 1973, the public sector accounted for about 80 percent of value added in
industry then estimated at US$20 million. Most of the industries are agro-
based, depending upon locally produced raw materials. After making strong
progress in the period 1968-70, industrial production stagnated from 1971
to 1973 but appears to have picked up since. Several investments were made
in the latter period such as a brick factory, a flour and pasta mill, grain
mills, and a corrugated carton factory. Existing plants, especially the sugar
complex and the textile factory were expanded and modernized. Also, increased
fishing capacity is contributing to the improved performance of the fish
factory. Construction has started on a 500,000-ton oil refinery financed by
Iraq. Shortages of technical and managerial staff and in some cases lack of
domestic inputs have resulted in underutilized capacity and the recent depar-
ture of Soviet technicians is aggravating this problem in specific industries.
17.       Somalia's fiscal performance has continued to be encouraging, and
budgetary savings will remain an important goal of the Government. Together
with the many self-help projects, the country's efforts to help finance its
investments provide evidence of commitment to self-reliance. Since 1971
when the Government succeeded in reversing a ten-year history of budget de-
ficits, a surplus has emerged every year (approximately $5.2 million in 1976).
However, the increasing supply of Government services nation-wide and the
recurrent cost implication of recent large public investments will make it
increasingly difficult for the budget to generate substantial savings.
18.       To raise Government revenues will probably require a reform of the
tax system and identification of new sources of revenue, including measures
to mobilize remittances of Somalis working abroad. In addition, ways of
improving efficiency in parastatal enterprises are necessary to turn them into
larger and growing sources of public savings. A World Bank mission recently
studied state firms and discussed its findings with the Government. Further
assistance to Somalia in this matter is being contemplated.
19.       Somalia's balance on goods and services has been in deficit since
Independence. The gap has grown from US$18.6 million in 1970 to US$110
million in 1976 and US$154.2 million in 1977, largely as a result of rapid
growth in merchandise imports. Imports (f.o.b.) have risen steadily from
US$56.8 million in 1971 to US$153 million in 1976 and US$193.5 million in
1977. 1/ The Government's comprehensive import licensing system can only have
a limited impact, since development-related imports (which are not actively
1/   Foreign trade statistics for 1976 have been revised downward but still
remain provisional; data for 1977 are preliminary estimates based on
returns for the first 10 months.



-6-
limited) already accounted for 40% of the total in 1974 and undoubtedly
account for a higher share at present while another non-compressible import,
food, accounted for a further 35-40 percent. Exports jumped from US$31.9
million in 1970 to US$85.3 million in 1975 but have stagnated at about US$80
million in 1976 and 1977. Also, increasing banana prices more than offset a
marked decline in volume exported in 1975 and 1976 but prices stopped rising
in 1977 and export receipts actually dropped. The overall balance of payments
in 1977 is likely to show a small surplus (in the range of $7-8 million) as
has been the case in the last two or three years because of large transfers
and net capital inflow.
20.        In view of Somalia's poverty, external assistance has played a
major role in the financing of investment for the development of the country.
Somalia joined the Arab League in 1974 and mounted a major effort to attract
commitments of funds from the OAPEC countries. The large inflows of external
capital and transfers from 1975 onward indicate that the effort has been
successful. Due to political events, the source of foreign assistance has
recently changed from the socialist block (except for China which maintains
a large program) towards Arab bilateral and multilateral institutions (con-
tinuing the trend started in 1975) and Western countries, several of which
have had substantial assistance programs for a number of years.
21.        The public external debt of Somalia as of December 1976 (outstanding
and disbursed) was approximately US$277 million. Although a large share of
this debt is on fairly soft terms, the debt service ratio has increased from
3.4 percent in 1972 to about 9 percent in 1977, and will probably continue to
increase because of increased amounts of aid. Somalia's export prospects are
rather poor because of the concentration on two primary products -- livestock
and bananas -- both of which face problems in expanding production in the long
run. Livestock is subject to cyclical droughts which decrease export sup-
plies and competition from the Sudan and Ethiopia, and even Australia and New
Zealand are to be reckoned with in asssessing Somalia's future market position
in Saudi Arabia. Banana exports have fallen because of both supply (drought,
floods, poor marketing practices) and demand (increasing competition from
multinationals in both Italy and the Middle East) problems. Diversification
efforts have been attempted in hides and skins and fisheries with limited
success but are bound to receive a setback with the withdrawal of Soviet tech-
nical assistance which was especially important in all aspects of fisheries
and processing of fish. Therefore, in view of the country's poverty and
uncertain export prospects, assistance should be provided on the softest
terms possible and contain provisions for local currency financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA I/
22.        Starting in 1965 IDA has made 14 credits totalling about US$96 mil-
lion of which about 45 percent have been made for transportation development,
1/   This section is the same as that of the Technical Assistance Project.



-7-
including construction of three trunk roads and a new deepwater port and
associated extensions at Mogadishu. IDA credits were also made for live-
stock development in FY74, for a development finance company project in
FY77, and for education in FY71, FY75 and again earlier in this fiscal year.
Lending for agriculture commenced in FY76 with two credits for a Drought
Rehabilitation Project and a North-West Region Agricultural Development
Project. No Bank loan or IFC investment has been made to Somalia. Annex II
contains a summary statement of IDA credits as of February 28, 1978 and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects. Performance on ongoing projects gen-
erally has been satisfactory. However, as the pace of development continues
to rise, absorptive capacity constraints are likely to become increasingly
evident; especially in the field of agriculture where projects are rather
complex and implementation experience is limited. Therefore, in preparing
and appraising new projects, particularly close attention will have to be
paid to implementation capacity and the adoption of measures to ease this
constraint when necessary.
23.       We plan to direct our future efforts on the country's directly pro-
ductive sectors, agriculture and livestock, and also on education and trans-
portation. While agriculture and livestock offer potential for development,
most rural development activities are only at the beginning stage. Moreover,
agricultural development in Somalia is particularly difficult because most
of the people in rural areas are nomadic. For these reasons, we plan that
much of our future lending will be in the agriculture and livestock sectors,
and this will be complemented with near equal attention on education. In the
near future we intend to seek Board approval for an Agricultural Extension
and Training Project, a Central Rangeland Livestock Project, an agricultural
project for the Bay region. In addition to these sectors, we plan to support
the Government's industrial development efforts (and assist in the formula-
tion of an industrial development policy) through our country economic work
and future DFC projects. We also plan to continue assistance, scheduled to
begin with the proposed Mogadishu Water Supply Project, to the water supply
sector.
24.       To facilitate the development and implementation of the Associa-
tion's growing operational program in Somalia, we recently established a
one-man resident mission. The mission represents the Bank Group in its
contacts with Government thus facilitating an efficient and smooth day-to-day
working relationship and assists in coordination of the cofinancing efforts
in accordance with the strategy outlined above.
25.       Although the situation in the Horn of Africa is a cause for concern,
the impact of the recent events on our operations has not been much. Only one
project, i.e., North-West Agricultural Development Project, was affected in
the sense that the management consultants invoked "force majeure" and left the
project area in February 1978. However, since the troop withdrawal in March
1978, the conditions in Northwest Somalia are quickly returning to normalcy



-8-
and the Government intends to proceed with implementation of the Project
until new management consultants are appointed.
26.       Implementation of other projects is proceeding generally sat-
isfactorily,although some are affected by shortages of qualified staff,
administrative and other factors which sometimes slow project implementa-
tion.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
Water Resources
27.       Water resources in Somalia are unevenly distributed and scanty.
There are only two perennial rivers, the Giuba and the Shebelli, which origi-
nate outside Somalia and traverse the southern part of the country. Although
generally limited both as to quantity and quality, ground water is Somalia's
principal source of water supply.
Population Served
28.       Based on information collected during a water supply and sewerage
sector study made in 1976 under the WHO/IBRD Cooperative Program, 20 percent
of the rural population and 60 percent of the urban population had reasonable
access to water supply service in 1975. Public sewerage exists only in
Mogadishu where service is restricted to hotels, offices and a relatively
small residential population (about 3,000) located in the central portion
of the city. The system is old and a project to extend this system and also
provide storm water drainage was recently appraised by the African Development
Fund. The remaining urban population is served by individual disposal systems.
Public Health
29.       There are few reliable statistics on specific water-borne and sani-
tation-associated diseases although morbidity and mortality due to common
enteric and parasitic diseases are known to be exceptionally high throughout
the country. Tuberculosis, malaria, various diarrheas, dysenteries and para-
sitic infections directly attributable to environmental deficiencies, are the
more commonly observed of the important communicable diseases. A recent study
revealed that 40 percent of the infant children examined were suffering from
gastroenterit is.
Organization
30.       Although several different agencies are involved, no agency is in
charge of overall planning and programming of community water supplies and
sanitation in the country. At the central Government level, there are mainly
three organizations in the sector, i.e., the Ministry of Minerals and Water



-9-
Resources (MMWR), the Ministry of Health and the Water Resources Development
Committee (WRDC). Local government agencies are responsible for both water
supply and sanitation but, except for a rudimentary waste water system in
Mogadishu (see para. 28), only water supply is currently provided. Autonomous
water agencies exist in three major cities, i.e., Mogadishu, Hargeisa and
Chisimaio.
31.       Responsibilities of MMWR are carried out by the Water Development
Agency (WDA) and the Mogadishu Water Agency, which are the principal organiza-
tions in the sector. WDA provides technical assistance to both rural and
urban communities through seven regional offices and a headquarters office in
Mogadishu. Although WDA has many responsibilities, its activities have been
confined largely to the construction of tube wells, provision of public
standposts for small communities, and watering points for the nomadic popula-
tion. It also contracts out construction of tube wells to private and quasi-
governmental organizations. WDA is partially funded through Government
budgets and partially through revenue-producing activities. It is empowered
to recover project costs from municipalities, may borrow funds for its opera-
tions from the Government and from external sources with prior approval of
1MWR, and may contract its services to cooperatives or clients outside of
Government channels. WDA is headed by a General Manager who is appointed by
the President of Somalia.
32.       Mogadishu Water Agency (MWA), an autonomous entity established in
1967 and recently placed under the Ministry of Minerals and Water Resources,
is responsible for water supply to Mogadishu. It is possible, however, that
the scope of MWA's operations would be extended to include construction and
operation of sewerage and drainage facilities in Mogadishu (see para. 49).
MWA is headed by a General Manager who is appointed by the President of
Somalia and is given considerable freedom to conduct MWA's affairs. No sig-
nificant additions to water supply capacity have been completed since comple-
tion of a USAID project in 1973 and construction activities have been limited
mainly to the extension of the distribution grid and new service connections.
Annual budgets are approved by the Ministry of Finance while major capital
expenditure projects are approved by the State Planning Commission.
33.       Ministry of Health's responsibility in the sector has been limited
mainly to exercising control and surveillance over water quality and guiding
local communities in environmental sanitation. The water Resource Development
Committee is a national advisory group consisting of representatives of the
Ministries of Interior, Mineral and Water Resources, Livestock, and Director
General of Planning and Coordination. The Committee is instrumental in
helping to shape sector policies and functions as a coordinating body with
respect to all water resource projects. It advises sector agencies, princi-
pally WDA and local governments, in the selection of projects and in budget
preparation.
34.       Other Ministries also are active in the sector.  The Ministry of
Agriculture implements projects which involve the construction of tube wells
and dug wells, the Ministry of Livestock provides watering points in rural



- 10 -
areas for nomads, and the Ministry of Defense constructs wells for military
reservations. However, none of these organizations has the capability of
independently planning and implementing water supply projects and must depend
upon WDA, expatriate advisors, or consultants for such expertise, generally
on a project by project basis.
The Objectives of the Water Supply Sector
35.       Government's development objectives for the sector are expressed
only in general terms and are not articulated in specific plans. These
objectives are to provide adequate, reliable and safe water for domestic
use and water for livestock, industry and agriculture (1) at modest prices
throughout the country; and (ii) within reasonable access to all potential
users.
Sector Investment
36.       The Five-Year Development Program (FYDP) for 1974-78 allocated
So.Sh. 139 million (US$22 million) for water supply out of a total planned
public investment program of So.Sh. 3.9 billion (US$614 million). Due mainly
to the drought, but also affected by the international economic crisis and
the poor state of project preparation, total investment and investment in
the water supply sector each achieved only about 50 percent of planned ex-
penditure levels. The 1976 WHO/IBRD sector study (para. 28) recommended that
the balance of the 1974-78 FYDP be reformulated and an alternative sector
investment program comprising So.Sh. 534 million (US$84.8 million) at 1976
price levels was proposed for the period 1976-83. Based upon past experience,
this proposed level of investment is unlikely to be achieved due to Govern-
ment's limited absorptive capacity.
37.       Despite the relatively large proportion of population currently
provided water service in Mogadishu (see para. 28), the Government places
a high priority in the early expansion of the city's water supply system
because of its high rates of growth of population and water demand, its
importance as Somalia's center of government, and the current extent of the
city's water supply deficiencies. Bank Group participation has been pro-
posed primarily to assist with long-term institutional improvements within
the sector.
38.       Initially, it was thought that MWA's existing well field could
be expanded to develop whatever additional supply capacity was required.
However, in 1977 it became apparent that production from this well field
could not be significantly increased and future increases in demand instead
must be met from as yet unidentified sources of supply. Comprehensive water
resource investigations are needed to identify suitable sources. Assuming
these investigations could begin shortly, a project including long-term water
supply improvements could not be appraised before 1979. Since Mogadishu
faces serious water shortages which cannot be relieved until a major addi-
tion in supply capacity is completed, it was decided to divide MWA's capital
spending program into two separate phases. The first of these, the proposed
Project, would include water resource investigations and facilities for a



- 11 -
limited increase of production from the existing well field. The second phase
would provide a long-term solution through provision for additional supply
capacity located elsewhere. In order to speed up preparation of the second
phase, an advance of $0.5 million from the Bank Group's Project Preparation
Facility is being used to finance a portion of the water resource investiga-
tions.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       A Report entitled, "Staff Appraisal Report, Mogadishu Water Supply
Project -- Somalia" (No. 1860-SOM), dated May 12, 1978 is being distributed
separately. A Credit and Project Summary appears at the beginning of this
report and a Supplementary Project Data Sheet is given in Annex III. The
Project was prepared by the Government with assistance of consultants, and
appraised by an IDA mission in September 1977. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. from April 10 to April 18, 1978. The Somali delegation
was headed by Mr. Abdurahman Nur Herzi, Economic Advisor to the President
of Somali Democratic Republic.
Project Objectives
40.       The objectives of the proposed Project are:  (a) to provide a modest
addition to MWA's water supply capacity, (b) to provide improved water service
to Mogadishu's urban poor, (c) to carry out water resource investigations as
part of preparation required for a proposed Mogadishu Phase II water supply
project, (d) to strengthen MWA through training, consultancy and advisory
services, and (e) to assess training needs of the water supply sector. The
objectives are in conformity with Somalia's sector objectives and the Bank's
goals of encouraging optimum development of Somalia's water resources and
helping Somalis to start long-term, sector-wide institutional improvements in
the water supply sector.
Project Description
41.       The proposed Project comprises the following:
(a) Water resource investigations including the drilling of test
holes and boreholes, the retention of consultants, and the
furnishing of associated advisory services for this purpose;
(b)  Construction work including:  (i) the extension of existing
Balad Road well field; (ii) the extension and modification of
Balad Road well field collector mains and transmission main;
(iii) the extension and modification of power plant and elec-
trical supply grid at Balad Road well field; (iv) the provi-
sion of standby pump set at existing city booster station;
(v) the extension of existing water distribution grid and
construction of about 40 additional public standposts; and
(vi) the construction of workshop and field staff quarters;



- 12 -
(c) Procurement of the following equipment: (i) vehicles and main-
tenance equipment; (ii) tools and workshop equipment; (iii)
communications equipment; and (iv) laboratory and water
treatment equipment;
(d)  Support of advisors to be appointed by MWA to Directors
of the Technical Operations and Finance Departments (see
para. 47);
(e)  Support of Project Management and Planning Unit (see para. 46);
(f)  Training component to strengthen the water supply sector (see
para. 48); and
(g)  Consulting services for:  (i) engineering design and supervision
of construction for Project; (ii) engineering design for the
second phase; (iii) accountancy and financial management; and
(iv) tariff studies.
Project Cost Estimate
42.       The estimated total cost of the Project, net of interest during
construction, is So.Sh. 48.5 million (US$7.7 million equivalent). Foreign
exchange costs would amount to US$5.8 million or 75 percent of the total
expenditures. The Project would be exempted from taxes and duties. Project
costs are outlined below.
US$ Thousands
Civil Works                                        2,501
Equipment                                          1,288
Consultants and Advisors                           1,930
Training Components                                  635
Physical and Price Contingencies                   1,365
Total Project Costs                           7,719
43.       Cost estimates are based upon preliminary Project design and are
expressed in terms of mid-1978 price levels. An allowance ranging from 10
percent to 20 percent was added to baseline costs for physical contingencies.
Annual price contingency factors ranging from 6 percent to 8 percent for
foreign costs and 8 percent to 11 percent for local costs were applied to
baseline costs and physical contingencies.
Financing Plan
44.       The proposed IDA Credit of US$6 million equivalent would be used
to finance all foreign costs (totalling $5.8 million) and a small portion
of local costs ($0.2 million) and would cover about 78 percent of the total
Project costs. These would include costs associated with the water resource



- 13 -
investigations and that portion of these costs paid by advances from the PPF.
The advances would be reimbursed from the Credit when it becomes effective.
The local cost financing is justified in view of the country's poverty. The
allocation of the proposed Project costs between MWA and WDA and the related
financing sources would be as follows:
Internal Cash                     Total Financing
Beneficiary     IDA Credit       Generation        Government       Requirement
…------------------------US$'000   ------------------------
MWA           5,954             854               850             7,658
WDA              46              -                 15                61
Total         6,000             854               865             7,719
The terms of the onlending of the credit proceeds to MWA would be twenty years
maturity, including 4 years of grace, at an interest rate of 7 percent (Dev-
elopment Credit Agreement, Section 3.01).
Project Implementation
45.       The Project would be carried out by MWA with assistance of engi-
neering consultants. MWA recently retained Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners
(Africa), a Nairobi-based firm involved in Project pre-investment studies,
for this purpose. The Consultant began work associated with the water re-
source investigations in November 1977 and the investigations are scheduled
to be completed by early 1979. All Project physical works would be completed
by March 1980 while all remaining Project elements would be completed by
late 1981. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that MWA would continue
to retain engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to IDA (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.02).
46.       A Project Management and Planning Unit would be needed to monitor
and report upon the progress of project implementation and handle payment
certificates and withdrawals from the Credit. It is expected that the
functions of this unit will be progressively extended to cover planning,
design and construction of future capital investments. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations, therefore, that, MWA would establish a Project
Management and Planning Unit which would be headed by a person having quali-
fications and experience acceptable to the Association (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.04). Appointment of the head of the Project Management
and Implementation Unit would be an additional condition of effectiveness
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01).
47.       The present Director of Technical Operations and the Director of
Finance and Administration need support in order to carry out their duties
effectively. To advise and assist the above two Directors, therefore, MWA
will appoint a Technical Operations Advisor and a Financial Advisor having



- 14 -
experience, qualifications, duties and responsibilities acceptable to the
Association. The two advisory positions will be retained until Government
and the Association have agreed that they are no longer required (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.03). Appointment of the above two advisors will
be additional conditions of credit effectiveness (Development Credit Agree-
ment, Section 6.01). To ensure that the quality of MWA's management is
maintained during the period of Project implementation assurances were
also obtained that future appointments to the positions of General Manager,
Director of Technical Operations, Director of Finance and Administration, and
head of the Project Management and Planning Unit, would only be made after
consultation with the Association (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.05).
Training
48.       A training component is included under the proposed Project to
assess training needs of the water supply sector and to strengthen MWA. Al-
though the details of the training program would have to be worked out later,
the immediate thrust of the training efforts would be mainly to strengthen
MWA's accounting skills, maintenance and operation functions, and to enable
MWA to develop permanent training capability. During negotiations, there-
fore, assurances were obtained that consultants would be employed not later
than January 31, 1979 to assess the training needs of Somalia's water supply
sector and to prepare in detail a suitable training program for MWA. Assur-
ances were also obtained that consultants' recommendations would be furnished
to the Association not later than July 31, 1979, and MWA, with assistance of
the consultants, would promptly carry out the training program as agreed
between the Association and the Borrower (Development Credit Agreement,
Sections 3.02 and 3.06). It is anticipated that implementation of the
elements of the training program relating to other water supply sector
agencies would be included in a subsequent project.
49.       There is a possibility that MWA may manage and operate a Mogadishu
drainage and sewerage project which is being considered for financing by
the African Development Fund. NWA would need additional strengthening to
carry out the proposed new task. During negotiations therefore assurances
were obtained that MWA will consult with the Association on its managerial.
financial and staffing aspects before extending the scope of its activities
to include provision of services other than water supply (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.07).
Advance Contracting and Retroactive Finance
50.       Due to the urgent need to supplement existing water supply capacity,
MWA intends to proceed quickly with the water resource investigations and with
the implementation of Project components which will result in increased pro-
duction capacity. The water resource investigations are being partly financed
through a US$500,000 advance under the Project Preparation Facility and up to
this amount is expected to be reimbursed from the proposed Credit when it
becomes effective. In addition to the above, retroactive finance of up to
US$400,000 equivalent is proposed for consulting services, procurement of
equipment and materials to expedite Project implementation.



- 15 -
Procurement
51.       Approximately 60 percent of the total Project costs would involve
construction and supply contracts. Mechanical and electrical equipment and
pipe are not manufactured locally and would be procured from abroad. Except
as noted below, all construction and supply contracts financed by the proposed
credit would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
(ICB) in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. The exceptions consist of the
drilling of boreholes and the furnishing of equipment, materials and supplies
urgently needed for the water resource investigations which ICB would delay
(see paras. 38 and 41). MWA has retained WDA, under terms and conditions
approved by the Association, for all drilling services required in the in-
vestigations, but would follow ICB procedures in contracting for the rehabil-
itation of existing wells and for all other Project drilling. Should domestic
contractors (including WDA) bid for all or a portion of civil works under ICB,
a preference of 7-1/2 percent would be applied to these bids.
Disbursement
52.       The proposed credit would be disbursed to meet selected portions of
the Project cost as follows: (i) 100 percent of total expenditures on civil
works (including the construction of boreholes) up to about US$1.5 million;
(ii) 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs of equipment and supplies;
(iii) 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of the advisors, consultants
and/or specialists; (iv) 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of the
training component; and (v) 100 percent of the refunding of the project
preparation advance.   Any credit funds undisbursed after completion of the
Project would be cancelled. The proposed closing date for the credit would
be June 30, 1982.
Environmental Impact
53.       As a result of the Project, some improvement to public health is
anticipated due to provision of safe water to an increased proportion of the
population. The proposed water development approach (see para. 38) would also
prevent excessive lowering of the underground water levels around the Balad
Road well field.
Financial Aspects
54.       MWA's accounting system needs to be reformed to provide adequate
information to evaluate and control its financial operations and also to pro-
vide information for financial planning. The assistance of accounting special-
ists will be required for the design and implementation of the new system,
including training of the Somali staff. To accomplish this, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that accounting specialists with qualifications,
experience and terms of employment acceptable to the Association, will be
appointed by MWA not later than January 31, 1979 (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.02).



- 16 -
55.       Although information provided by MWA's accounting system is inade-
quate to make a detailed evaluation of its past financial performance, avail-
able information indicates that its revenues have been adequate to meet cash
operating expenses, debt service and annual capital expenditures and also
to accumulate a small cash surplus to help finance future capital spending.
In the past, MWA did not collect revenues for water supplied to the Munici-
pality of Mogadishu (about 8 percent of water consumption) but it has been
recently agreed between the Municipality and MWA that the Municipality will
pay the rate charged to other consumers. This was confirmed during the
negotiations and assurances were obtained that MWA and the Municipality of
Mogadishu will settle all other business transactions between them based on
reasonable charges (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.08).
56.       MWA's current water production costs are high due to the relatively
low yield characteristic of the supply sources. Consequently water charges of
So.Sh. 3 per m (US$1.80 per 1,000 US gal.) are relatively high compared to
most other countries in the Eastern Africa region. Despite this, tariff
changes may be needed to reflect MWA long-term financial needs and marginal
water supply costs. However, reliable cost information upon which tariff
studies would depend is not available. Consequently, during negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the Government will cause MWA: (a) to employ
consultants on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association to carry out
a comprehensive tariff study based on the water resource investigations that
will be conducted in parallel; this study would be completed by September 30,
1979 (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02); and (b) to consult IDA
before implementing the recommendations of the tariff study (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 4.06). Meantime, to maintain MWA's financial
viability, assurances were also obtained that MWA: (a) will maintain its
tariff at not less than the level existing on September 30, 1977 and, in any
case, at a level adequate to cover cash operating expenses and depreciation
or debt service, whichever is larger (Development Credit Agreement, Section
4.06); (b) will not incur debt without IDA approval unless future debt service
is covered at least 1.4 times by internal cash generation (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 4.08); and (c) until project completion, MWA will not incur
annual capital expenditures, other than for the proposed Project, in excess
of US$250,000 equivalent in any fiscal year of MWA without a financing plan
approved by the Association (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.07).
57.       After MWA's accounting system has been improved and reliable esti-
mates of MWA's future capital spending can be made, it would be appropriate
to establish financial performance standards based on the rate of return on
fixed assets. Therefore, at negotiations, assurances were obtained that MWA
would revalue its fixed assets by September 30, 1979, and annually after
that date, using methods acceptable to the Association (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 4.05).
58.       The Magistrate of Accounts, who is independent and reports directly
to the President, is responsible for the audit of all Government departments
and agencies in Somalia and would audit MWA's accounts. This is acceptable



- 17 -
to the Association. To ensure satisfactory audits in the future, assurances
were obtained during negotiations that MWA will have its accounts audited
annually by auditors acceptable to the Association and would furnish such
audited accounts to the Association not later than six months after the
end of its fiscal year (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.02).
Justification
59.       The population of Mogadishu, about 445,000 persons in 1976, is
growing at a rate of about 6 percent, or over twice the national growth rate
of 2.4 percent. However, Mogadishu's annual water demand has grown at a rate
more than three times the rate of its population increase, and existing pro-
duction facilities now are fully utilized and some suppression of demand has
been experienced. Since the Project would provide an incremental addition
equivalent only to about 18 months' growth of maximum-day demand, the water
supply situation is likely to remain critical until the commissioning of the
Phase II investment now expected for 1982. Government has recognized the
seriousness of this problem and has assured the Association that new connec-
tions would be limited mainly to public standposts, which would assure util-
ization of this limited resource by the maximum number of people. Project
benefits would mainly accrue to the urban poor residents in Mogadishu living
in low-cost and temporary houses (29,000 new connections). The benefits would
consist of an increased number of persons served, improved access to water
and, for those customers changing their mode of delivery from vendor to public
standpost, a reduced water charge. Additional, though non-quantifiable,
benefits would result from the Project based upon the extension of safe water
service to additional populations.
60.       MWA currently is operating with insufficient reserve capacity at
the Balad Road power plant and the city booster station. Due to the need
to continuously operate most units, it is impossible to carry out major main-
tenance without temporarily suppressing demand and system reliability is
therefore constrained. The Project would improve reserve capacity through
the addition of engine-generator sets at the Balad Road power plant and the
provision of an extra pump set at the city booster station. In view of the
existence of unutilized capacity in the existing transmission main from the
Balad Road well field, we are satisfied that an increase in production capac-
ity at that source is the least-cost means of providing a short-term increase
in the availability of water to meet Mogadishu's immediate needs.
61.       The MWA is one of the significant institutions in the water supply
sector which needs institutional development. To address these needs, the
Project includes: (a) support of counterpart advisors to MWA management;
(b) support of the Project Management Unit; (c) identification of training
needs and implementation of training program; and (d) consultants' services
for accountancy, financial management and tariff studies. While the principal
thrust of these efforts would benefit mainly MWA, the staffing and training
needs of the entire sector also would be evaluated as a basis for preparing
future programs to meet these needs.



- 18 -
Economic Analysis
62.       Only that portion of Project costs affecting additions to capacity
or betterments to service was used in carrying out economic analysis. The
included costs are estimated to total about US$4.8 million equivalent, or 62
percent of total Project costs. The analysis includes assessments of return on
investment (ROI) and long-range incremental costs (AIC). ROI on the Project
was taken as the discount rate at which the present worth of Project costs,
including capital and operating costs but excluding duties and taxes, equals
the present worth of benefits. Costs attributed to the Project are based upon
mid-1978 price levels while the current tariff of So.Sh. 3 m was used in
calculating benefits.  ROI on the Project is 14.6 percent without shadow
pricing and 9.1 percent with shadow pricing of the foreign component of
capital and operating costs. For a 10 percent increase in Project costs,
without shadow pricing, ROI would decrease to about 13.1 percent while, with
shadow pricing, ROI would be 8.4 percent. The above ROI computations demon-
strate that on the average the tariff would reflect the cost of supply.
However, this rate of return as calculated is an underestimate of project
benefits since the consumer surplus is not reflected by using revenues as a
benefit proxy.
63.       Since reliable information about the nature and cost of the next
major (Phase II) investment is not available, calculations of AIC are limited
only to the proposed Project. On this basis, assuming the opportunity cost
of capital to be within t e range of 8 percent to 12 percent, AIC varies from
So.Sh. 2.05 to 2.60 per m . Shadow pricing of foreign cost components os
the Project would increase AIC to the range of So.S8. 2.72 to 3.45 per m
which brackets the current tariff of So.Sh. 3 per m
Risks
64.       The main risks for projects of this type would be that, because of
institutional weaknesses, construction may be delayed thus further extending
water shortages in Mogadishu, and that operation and maintenance may be
inadequate. To reduce these risks the Project provides for: (a) strengthen-
ing MWA through the appointment of counterpart financial and technical ad-
visors, (b) the creation of a Project Management and Planning Unit, (c) an
extensive training program to improve MWA's operating and maintenance per-
formance, and (d) hydrogeologists and drilling superintendents to assist in
the planning and construction of Project wells. Risks have been minimized to
the extent feasible through the above measures.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Somali Democratic
Republic and the Association and the recommendation of the Committee provided
for under Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associa-
tion are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
66.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest
are referred to in Annex III of this report.
67.       Conclusion of a satisfactory subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and MWA and appointment of (i) a duly qualified person as head
of the Project Management and Planning Unit and (ii) two qualified experts
to assist MWA's Directors of Technical Operations and Finance and Administra-
tion will be additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01).
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 12, 1978






TABLE 3A                                                 ANNEX I
SOMALIA             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                              Page 1 of 4 pages
LAND AREA QTHOU KM2)-                                …------                        …
_______________                      ----------;SOMALIA                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (t1970)
TOTAL      637.7                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     299.0                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE           ETHIOPIA       TANZANIA      SENEGAL**
GNP PER CAPITA IUSS)                     70.0*      80.0*    110.0*/a             70.0*     100.0*/a   270.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_____ _ _ __. ----__--_--_--___
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            2.2        2.8        3.3/a             24.6        12.9         4.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        3.0        4.0        5.0/a             20.0        14.0       22.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LANO         7.0        9.0       11.O/a             31.0        25.0       55.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         47.3       47.7       47.2               50.3        50.5        47.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          27.6       23.6       21.7               28.7        23.0        24.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE '/THOU)          ,.         ..         ..                 ..    160-165
LIFE EX -CTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       35.1       38.'      41.0                38.5        41.8       40.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 .-       3.0        3.0                2.9         3.2         3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                 2.0        2.4       2.4                 2,1         3.0/a       2.6
URBAN                                 2.9        6.1        4.4                6.0         5.6         6.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           18.0      25.6       28.3                9.6         s.5/b      29.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCEI.T)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       43.8       46.5      45.0                43.0        44.41b     41.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                       53.5       51.6      53.0                54.3        53.07j     54.9
65 YL,.RS AND OVER                    2.7        1.9        2.0                2.7         2.67_       3.9
AGF DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.9        0.9        0.9                0.8         0.9/b       0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.1 /a     1.2/a      1.2/b              1.0/a       1.2/.Lb    I.2/a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)           ..         ..         ..                 ..
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         ..         ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TF1OUSAND)         930.0    1100.0    1250.0              10600.0      5600.0/ab IG600.0
LABOR -ORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X;         86.0       82.0      77.0                850         S1 0 /a     73.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)             .       20.0/b       ..                2.9          ..         7.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME RECC  BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..        ..         ..                 ..        33.5
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..        ..         ..                 ..        63.3
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..        ..                  ..         2.3
LOwEST  401 OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..         ..                 ..         7..
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..        ..         ..
. OWNED B6 SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..         ..         ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            33220.0   21420 0   15760 0              73300.0    21570,0/a  16640.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        3780.0/b  3260.:C  2900S 0 /C,d         23640.01/  4890.0 i   2680.0/b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           630.0      580.0      570.0 E           2980.0       700.07w    810.07W
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         77.0       80.0       79.0               92.0        73.0        91.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              57.0       57.0      55.1                69.0        43.0       64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL. AND PULSE        1S.0/C    27.0       28.0                25.0        23.0       28.o/d
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              ..         ..         ..                 .
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        9.0       10.0      34.0                17.0        35.0        43.0
SECONOARY SChJOL                      1.0        5.0        3.0                4.0         3.0        10.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0       12.0      10.0                12.0        13.0        13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMIENT
(% OF SECUNDARY)                       ..         ..      14.0                 4.0        10.0/C      9.0
ADULT ITERACY RATE (X)                    ..       1.0       so.0/f               ..          ..        10.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  ..        ..         ..                  ..
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER ()                         ..         ..         ..                 ..        30./bd
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(l OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..         ..        ..                  ..
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                     ..         ..         ..                 ..          .
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         12.0       18.0       22.0                6.0        11.0        69.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           2.0/C      2.0        3.0                2.0         3.0         9.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            5.0       10.0       13.0               21.0        31.0        73.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 ..       0.2        0.2                0.04        0.1         0I1
SEE NOTES ANO OEFINITICNS ON REVERSE



ANNOX I
page 2 of 4 pages
MIES
IUdIs.  otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any yer between 1959  nd 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Host Recent Estimate
bhtveen 1973 and 1975.
^GEP per capita data ar  based on the World oank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis).
** S-neg-l h.. been  elcted  s an objectiv- country becauae of its diff-rent ioc .o-.conomie structure sad similar sami-arid ecology
*nd pop.lation sioe.
SOXALIA       1960    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    lb  Including midwve  end  ssitatanc nurses;
/c 1963.
1970   /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to trtal Isbor force;    /b  Urban only;    /c  Including midwives
snd asistant nurses;    /d  1964-66.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:   /I  1976;    /b  Ratio of populetion under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /c  1971;
'd  Includins midwives and assistant nurses;    /a  1972;    /f  Goverront estimate.
ETHIOP!A      1970   Lj  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /b  including midwives.
TANZANLA      1970   Ia  Mainland Tanzania;    /b  1967;    /c  1965;    /d  As percentage of urban households.
SENEGAL       1970   /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 end over to total labor force;    /b  Including assistant nuraos;
/c  Goverrnnent hospital establishments;    /d  1964-66.
RS, December 30, 1977
DZYXfITION OF SOCIAL XRDICATO7S
Land Area (thou k 7)                                                                        Ponuletlon Per eursine person - Population divided by num or of prcticing
Total - Total surfac  areo comprising land area sd inland waters.                                ae and f-le  trdue nurse, "trained" or "cartLfiad' nurses. and
nic. - Most recent estimate of  griculturel *r  ued temporarily or pere-                      eamiliary Personnel with training or osperiesc,
nantly for crops, p-tures. narket & kitchen gardoes or to li f.Il,.                      Porulation per hospital bad - Population divided by .mb*vr of hospital beds
a,sileble in public end privat general and specialized hompital ead
C1PP Par caPits (51 - GNP per capita etimates at eurroct market prices,                        rhebilitatio  centers; ecludes mmring hs end stabliahlets tfor
.sloul.t.d by  *  conv-rsion   .hod a. World pamok Atlas (1973-75 bass); .                  *utodisl sd preventive ers.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                 Per cepits supply of calories Cl of reosiromesi ) r  uCemstd from emo rgy
equiveleot of net food supptias available in ceontry per capita per day;
Po.upLecio  and vitcal  tatistic,                                                             available suppie5s emprie de_*tlt production, imports lees exports, and
Population (nid-ysar nillion)   As of July firt:  if not vailable, averaga                    chages in stock; net supplies e,clode sanmal feed, see,d qsanriti   us.d
of two  od-yar estimates; 1-60, 1970  nd 1975 dat.                                          itn food proceirng and lossa in distribution; requiremts were estimated
by FAO based on phyiologicel saeda for norma  activity  _  bealch cetid.
Population density - Par squar  ks - Mid-yer population per aquar  kilo_ter                   eri.g anviromitel t_aratre, body wighta, age asd eex dietribiscion  ef
(100 hectares) of toctl area.                                                               population, and al11-ing lOS fer - t, at lahowebld level.
Population denaity - per asuarr km of saric. land - Computed as above for                   Per capita  apIr of protein ferin Dor dsy) - Proteia centaut of par capits
agcicuLtural land only.                                                                     net aupply  of food per day; nt aupply of food is dafined *o aboe  require-
=an-t  for  11 tosat.rina established by VSDA fonemoic  eare.b Servic.s
Vital statistics                                                                               provide for a minimim allowance of 60 grema of total protein per dy, and
Crnde birth rats per thousnd, aver*ae - Annual live births per thousand of                     20 grem  of soimal and pulse protein, of whIch 10 Srcen  should be aimal
tid-year populatio; ce-year sricecic geve-Sgs ending in lfO0 sod 1970,                      protein; theme standards are I r then those of 75 gros of total prOtein
and five-year average ending in 1975 for  st recent estimt,                                 sod 23 gros of animal protein as an averege for the wrld, propoeod by FAO
Crude death rate Par thous"ad. average - Annual deaths par chowand of  id-year                 is the rhird World Food Survey.
population; ten-yar arithmetic averages  oding in 1960 and 1970 and five-                 Par comits protein supply from animal a*d pusi,e - Protein aspply of food
pear avrmge ending in 1975 for mast recent estimate.                                        derived frem animls  nd pulses in gr_ per da.
Infant mortality ra e (/thou)   Annual deaths of infnts under one year of age               D-eth ret. fthou) mesa 1-4 - anudal d-eths per th-asnd in age group 1-4
par thouaaod live births.                                                                   years, to children in this age group;  uggested as an indicator of
Life expectancy at birth (nrc) - Average nubar of years of life remaining at                  mlnutrition.
birch; usually fiv.-year  vergac ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for dev-lop-
ing countries.                                                                            Educstion
Gross reproduction rate - Average  -nobhr of live daughters a woman will beer                Adjusted anrollmoot ratio - primar: school - tnrollmnt of ell agos as per-
is her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-specifi                    centage of primary school-ge ppulatin; icludes Children aged 6-11 years
fertility rste; 'sually fIve-year averagee ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                     but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; for countries with
for developing countries.                                                                   univeral education, enmolmnt my excoed 100  mine sm pupils are below
Population orowth rate (1) - total - Conpounld sanuel growth ret_ of aid-year                  or above the official school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                              Adluated enrollment rtcio - second ry school - Comuted ma above; eooodary
Population aroech rota (%) - urban - Computed liko growth rata of total                         ducation requires at least fourr  .   of approved prtiry instruction;
population; different definitions of urban areas may affset coeprobility of                  provid oSnerel, vocational or toecher training instructions for pupils
data  sang coontrie.                                                                         of 12 to 17 years of age; corrspondence coursa  ar  gemrally excluded.
Urban population (% of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; differmet                sears of cboolimc provided tfirst d second levea) - Total yer  of
definitions of urbs aro  may affect coeprabilicy of date  ong contrita.                      sehooling; at        amcery    1, veeatonal instruction may be Partially or
c,Zplatoly secluded.
Ace struct.re (Percent) - Children (0-14 years),  orking-age (15-64 year)                    Vctonal enrollment tS of secondary) - Vocationl iretigutCeia  include
and retired (65 yers and over) as percentages of aid-year population.                        technical  induwtrial or other progrem  which operate Independently or *
Ass dpenrd.ccy ratio - Rirto of population under 15 and 63 and -vr co tho.                     deparmsnc  of  'acondary instituion
of  Sage  15 through 6i.                                                                   Adult literacy rate Ml  - L.Iterate ad.lt. (able to read enhd write) as per-
Economic dep-odency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                    c*nteOc   sf total adult Population aged 15 years and over.
che labor force it ag group of 15-64 years.
Fily PlanI.La  - acceptor  (cumulative. thou) - Cumulative nu br of acceptors                Housing
of birh-control devices under auspices of national fmily planning program                  Persons Per roe (urban) - Average number of pe ron  per room  in occupied
since Lt.eptLon.                                                                             conventional dllngs in urban areas; dw-linLgs acude non-pemanent
FnIly pl-nning - us.re. C  of married wo-en) - Percentages of mrried ve_n  of                  structure  and unoccupied parts.
child-besting ag  (15-44 years) who use birth-control devices t  S11 Serri,d               Occupied dwellinss without Piped sator CTI - Occupled  -onoontion.l d-ellings
men In s     age iroup.                                                                      it urban aod rural ares without inside or outaLde Piped water faecilitis
as percsncage of all occupied dwellings.
ftmlovnsnt                                                                                    c:eas no electrici.y  (2 of al dvelltns.) - Conv  ntIonal dwllings with
Total labor force (thou sad) - Economicalty active persona, including ared                     electricity in living quarters me percent of total dwellings In urban and
forceo and unamployed but excluding houewvtveo, students, etc.; definitions                  rural reas.
Ln variou  covncria   r  not comparable                                                   Rural dalls1a cwepnc-.d to electricity Cl) - Cemputed  a above for rural
L'abor force In agriculture (t) - AgrIcultural labor force (in ferming. fomresry,              dwellings only.
hunting and fishi.g) as percentage of total labor forct.
te-mploy-d f2 of labor force) - Unemployed ar usually defined as persons who                 Conu pttion
arm able  cd willing to taks a job, out of a job on a given day. rtemaned out              Radlo recsiuers (per thou Pop) - All typa of rmceivers for radio broadcasts
of a job, and  saking work for a opecified einiaso  period sot exceeding one                 to general public Par thousand of popultion; .s.ludes uni,ctsd reivuers
week; may not be comparoble between countrias due to diff.rent definitiou                    to countris and in years  hen  registratton of r-dlo  sats was in effect;
of -nePloy-d and sPurs of dat.  .., employent office  attintic,   mple                       data for rcc years wsy not be comparable since most countries abolihed
aurvey. compulsory unemploysnt iaurance.                                                     lientong.
Posaencer tars (per thou Ppoo - Possanger cars comprise motor cars seating
inco_ dhtributton - Percentage of private incoe (both In csab and kind)                        less than sight persons; excludes embularcn, hearasa and eillta,-
received by rich-t 52, riohbtc 202, poor-t 20%,  nd poorst 402 of hous-                      vehicles.
holds.                                                                                     Etectritity (%wh/yr per cap) - AnnuAl consemption of tndustfisl. c_erclal.
public sod private electricity is kilowatt hmnrs Per capita. generally
Discribution of land ownership - Per-entage  of land owned by welthiest Itl                    based on production data, withot allowance for losses is grids but  llow-
and poorest iLt of land owners.                                                              ing for imports and enports of slectritciry.
(esri kfa/yr Par nsa) - Per  spica. . .n.aI tonesuptrio, Lo kilogramn
Health and Nutrition                                                                           e       dfr   domestit prod-tion Pila sr r Imports of nwsprint.
Population Per phy icin - Popultion divIded by number of practicing
pysicisn  qualified fr o   edic-l school at univerity lvel.



Annex I
Page 3 of 4 pages
SOMALIA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT                                                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (7.. constant prices)
US$ Mln.      %                               1961-69              1969-73            1974
GNP at Market Prices (1976)       380.01-    100.0
Gross Domestic Investment            ..
Gross National Saving                ..
Trade Balance (1977)             -112.5
Exports of Goods,(1977)             81.0         ..
Imports of Goods (1977)            193.5
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY
Value Added                    Labor Force                  V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.                          Mln.      %                  US $ 
Agriculture                          ..         ..                   ..
Industry                             ..         ..                   ..
Services                             ..         ..                  ..
Unallocated
Total/Average
100.0                        100.0                            100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Goverrment                                 Central Government
(SoSh Mln.)        7. of GDP                       (SoSh Mln.)         X of GDP
1973       1973        1969-73                     1976      1973         1969-73
Current Receipts                           497.8         ..            ..                     689.4
Current Expenditure                        414.7                                              656.1
Current Surplus                             83.1         ..            ..                      33.33       .
Capital Expenditures                       327.0         ..            ..                     634.1- 3
External Assistance (net)                  247.0         ..            ..
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES./                             1970      1971     1972      1973     1974      1975     1976      1977
(Million SoSh Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                                   466       391      518       608      783    1005.1   1100.0   1240.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector                            100       72        13         5      2.4    -238.2    124.4       46.4
Bank Credit to Private Sectorj/                         297      254       315      622       916      934.6    986.4   1001.6
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GD                         ..        ..       ..        ..                        19.. .
General Price Index (1966 . 100)                       108.5    108.5    107.4    126.6    151.1    163.0    190.0
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                                     -9.8       0       -1.0      17.9     19.4       7.9     16.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector                            61.8    -28.0    -81.9    -61.5    -52.0    -98.3        52.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector2/                         27.1    -14.5      24.0      50.2     47.3       2.1      5.5
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/  Computed on the basis of an assumed GNP per capita of $110 in 1976 but with a revised population figure of
3.5 million. Data for 1976 and 1977 are either preliminary or estimates.
2/  Private sector here includes decentralized, government-owned enterprises.
3/ This is a preliminary figure; it includes only investments under the Plan.
4/ Source: Central Bank of Somalia: Monthly Report.
5/ All daLa (except C.O.L. index) taken from IMF, IFS.
not available.
not applicable.
EACPII, EAN
February 22, 1978



SOtALIA
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (Average 1974-77)
1974 1/    1975         1976 LOY   1977 10/                                                            US$ Mln.       7
Exports of Goods, NFS                      55.0        88.5         81          81                          Live animals                            47.4        51.3
Imports of Goods, NFS                     157.43/    177.6         153.1       193.5                        Bananas                                 12.6        13.6
Resource Gap (deficit   -)               -102.44/    -89.1                                                  Meat & meat products
Services (net)                                                     -38.0        -41.6                       Hides and skins
Interest Payments (net)                     1.9
Workers' Remittances                      -16.65/    -21.0§!
Other Factor Payments (net)
Net Transfers                              44.9       119.8         40.9         64.7                    All other commodities                      32.5        35.1
Balance on Current Account                -72.2         9.7        -69.2       -89.4                           Total                                92.5       100.0
Direct Foreign Investment                    5.6                                                     EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1976
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                            *-                                                                                                          US$ Mln.
Amortization                             9.        _
Subtotal                                55.7        42.1         85.7        96.9                    Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                    595.5-
Capital Grants                               ..          .                                               Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                         .
Other Capital (net)                          ..         ..                                               Total Outstanding & Disbursed
Other Items n.e.i.                           ..         ..            0.5
Increase in Reserves (+)                  -10.8        51.8          17.0         7.5                DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976
Gross Reserves (end year)                                                                                                                                   %
Net Reserves (end year)
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                    9.0
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                               Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Imports                                 11.7        19.9           ..         ..                     Total Outstanding & Disbursed
of which:  Petroleum                 11.7        19.9
Exports                                  ..          ..                                           IBRD/IDA LENDING. (Dec. 31. 1977) (Million US$)
of which:  Petroleum
IBRD      IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstandiug & Disbursed                 .      46.3
Through - 1971                            Since April 1973                                               Undisbursed.                                   30.9
US $ 1.00 = SoSh 7.143                    US $ 1.00 = SoSh 6.2957/                                       Outstanding incl. Undisbursed           .       77_.2
SoSh 1.00 = US $ 0.140                    SoSh 1.00 = US $ 0.160
1/  Estimated debt.
2/  Exports f.o.b.
3/  Imports c.i.f.
4/  Trade balance.
51 Net non-factor services.
6/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of               .. not available
Goods and Non-Factor Services (estimate).
71  Central Rate (Somalia avails itself of              . not applicable
wider margins); the trade conversion
factor used by IMF is 6.233 SoSh/US$.                                                                                                                                  a M
8/  All factor services (net).                                                                                                                                                4 
9/  Disbursed debt at December 31, 1976 was approximately $277 million.                                                                                                       o
10/  Balance of payments data for 1976 and 1977 are preliminary.
Imports and Exports refer to goods only and services are shown net.                                                                                                     4
'0
us
EACPII, EAN
February 21, 1978



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
A.   Statement of IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1978).
(US$ Million)
Amount       Undisbursed
(Net of cancellations
No.      Year    Borrower            Purpose             and exchange adjustments)
(CY)
Three credits fully disbursed                              9.7
123-SO   1978    Somalia    Highway-Supplementary
(Afgoi-Baidoa Road)          2.3              0.3
295-SO   1972    Somalia    Highways II (Hargeisa-
Berbera Road)                9.6              0.0
359-SO   1973    Somalia    Port of Mogadishu             12.95             0.0
462-SO   1974    Somalia    Trans-Juba Livestock          10.0              6.7
511-SO   1974    Somalia    Second Education               8.0              4.3
586-SO   1975    Somalia    Mogadishu Port Extension    5.2                 0.9
623-SO   1976    Somalia    Drought Rehabilitation         8.0              7.8
635-SO   1976    Somalia    North-West Agriculture        10.0              9.4
698-SO   1977    Somalia    Somali Development Bank        5.0              5.0
699-SO   1977    Somalia    Third Highway (Hargeisa-
Borama)                      7.0              6.4
738-SO   1977    Somalia    Third Education                8.0              8.0
Total                       95.75            48.8
of which has been paid       0.4
Total now held by IDA       95.35



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION - SOMALIA I/
Credit No. 123:      Highways Supplement (Afgoi-Baidoa); $2.3 million Credit of
June 26, 1968: Date of Effectiveness: February 25, 1969;
Closing Date: originally December 31, 1971 and postponed
seven times to June 30, 1978.
The construction of the Afgoi-Baidoa road was completed in
March 1971. The International Chamber of Commerce made an arbitration award
to the Contractor (Joint Venture) on December 3, 1975, in an amount of
DM 11,648.333.04 with interest at DM 1,356.20 per day from December 15, 1975;
a Government counterclaim against the Contractor was rejected. A series of
meetings were held between Government and the Contractor to try to resolve the
matter, the last such meeting, convened by the European Development Fund, took
place at Brussels on October 4, 1977; representatives of the IDA attended the
meeting as observers. No final settlement of the dispute was reached. How-
ever, we have since been informed that a Somali Delegation met a representa-
tive of the Contractor in Bonn on March 22, 1978, and proposed a DM 10 million
settlement and a schedule of payments. The contractor's representative
expres.sed interest and promised to discuss the proposal with his Board of
Directors and convey their reaction to the Somali Government.
Credit No. 295:       Highways II (Hargeisa-Berbera); $9.6 million Credit of
March 30, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: May 11, 1972;
Closing Date: originally December 31, 1975 and post-
poned thrice to June 30, 1978.
The construction of the Hargeisa-Berbera road was completed in
June 1975. The feasibility study and detailed engineering for the Hargeisa-
Borama road and technical assistance in transport planning have also been
completed. The Project was completed successfully.
Credit No. 359:       Port of Mogadishu; $12.95 million Credit of March 15, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness; September 10, 1973; Closing Date:
originally June 30, 1977 and postponed once to June 30, 1978.
Credit No. 586:      Mogadishu Port Extension Project; $5.2 million Credit of
October 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness; January 15, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The civil works, including the extension, were completed in
October 1977, six months behind schedule. Several outstanding claims of the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
contractor were settled in July 1977 and paid in full in April 1978. The port
operating equipment has been delivered. Because of the continuing shortage of
skilled staff in the country as a whole, the Somali Port Authority continues
to face problems in finding staff with the necessary skills to take full
advantage of the training aspects of the consultancy services provided under
the credit. As a result of the recommendations made by the consultants,
tariffs have been revised.
Credit No. 462:      Livestock (Trans-Juba) Project; $10 million Credit of
February 20, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: October 29,
1974; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980.
Stock route and ranch development have made good progress but bore-
hole drilling and the veterinary assistance component are delayed. Restricted
Government financial contribution is creating a working capital shortage. FAO
has supplied an irrigation engineer, and 4 senior staff have been recruited by
the Livestock Development Agency directly from India. A recent transfer of
the Project to the Ministry of Industry and the resignation of the Project
Director and an engineer are matters of concern which are being discussed with
Government.
Credit No. 511:      Second Education Project; $8 million Credit of September 19,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
The Elementary Teachers Training College is complete and in use.
Construction of the nomadic centers, the Academy of Somali Studies and the
Fishery and Marine Institute are about a year behind schedule due to staffing
shortage of the Project Implementation Unit and delays in establishing cri-
teria for locating the Nomadic Training Centers. Construction contracts have
now been awarded for 19 of the 22 project institutions and disbursements are
expected to increase rapidly as a result. Latest cost estimates indicate an
overrun of about 3 percent which is manageable.
Credit No. 623:      Drought Rehabilitation Program -- Juba-Shebelli Emergency
Settlement Scheme; $8 million Credit of July 7, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Project implementation, especially procurement of vehicles and
equipment and land clearing, is slow, mainly due to high turnover of consult-
ancy staff; one settlement location as originally selected is unsuitable. The
interriverine study financed under the Project points to a much lower irriga-
tion potential than previously expected.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Credit No. 635:      North-West Region Agricultural Development Project; $10
million Credit of July 7, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
February 9, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
In view of the military situation in North-West Somalia, the manage-
ment consultants have left the Project area in February 1978 invoking 'force
majeure', but Somali staff continue project implementation; procurement of
equipment is on schedule. New management consultants are expected to be
appointed shortly.
Credit No. 698:       Somali Development Bank; $5 million Credit of June 1,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981.
This Credit was declared effective on February 27, 1978.
Credit No. 699:      Third Highway Project; $7 million Credit of June 1, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 24, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The contract for construction works on the Hargeisa-Borama road,
with a link to Tug Wajale, has been awarded and consultants engaged to carry
out supervision. Technical proposals, from a short list of consulting firms,
for provision of services covering feasibility study for the Dinsor-Bardera-
Gelib road have been submitted to the Government and the Association is
awaiting an evaluation report on consultants' proposals and the Government's
recommendation regarding selection of the consultants.
Credit No. 738:      Third Education Project; $8 million Credit of September 30,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 13,1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983.
This Credit was declared effective on March 13, 1978.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SOMALIA
MOGADISHU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare Project               8 months
(b)  Preparation                                 Government, Sir Alexander
Gibb and Partners (Africa)
and IDA
(c)  Initial discussions with IDA               October 1975
(d)  Pre-appraisal mission                      April 1977
(e)  Appraisal mission                           September 1977
(f)  Negotiations                               April 1978
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness               September 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) MWA will appoint advisors to the Directors of Technical Operations
and Finance having experience, qualifications, duties and respon-
sibilities acceptable to the Association. To assure the quality of
management during the Project implementation period, MWA will
consult with the Association on the qualifications of future
candidates for the positions of General Manager, Director of
Technical Operations, and Director of Finance and head of the
Project Management and Planning Unit (para. 47).
(b) MWA will establish a Project Management Unit to be headed by a
person having qualifications and experience acceptable to the
Association (para. 46).
(c) Not later than January 31, 1979, MWA will employ accounting consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of
employment will be satisfactory to the Association (para. 54).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) MWA will consult with the Association before extending the scope of
its activities to include sewerage and drainage (para. 49).
(e) WDA would exchange views with the Association regarding the recom-
mendations of consultants employed to assess Somalia's water supply
sector training needs. MWA will prepare and submit a detailed
schedule and description of a training plan by January 31, 1979 and
will carry out the training program with the assistance of consult-
ants satisfactory to the Association (para. 48).
(f) Beginning no later than December 31, 1978, MWA and the Municipality
of Mogadishu will settle all other business transactions between
them based upon reasonable charges (para. 55).
(g) MWA will employ consultants on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Association to make such recommendations as are necessary for
the revision of MWA's tariff structure and level and will cause the
study to be completed not later than September 30, 1979. Meantime,
MWA will maintain its tariff at no less than the current level
and, in any case, at a level adequate to cover cash operating
expenses and depreciation or debt service whichever is larger
(para. 56).
(h) MWA will not incur (a) debt without IDA approval unless future debt
service is covered at least 1.4 times by internal cash generation
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.08), and (ii) annual
capital expenditure, other than for the proposed project, in excess
of $250,000 equivalent without a financing plan approved by the
Association (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.07).



ALE. -,;wJ ,''-, i3f,,, t     d,,   t, ,,, ,t,   -,,    0hh m-p h.. bt  pep-sd by th.
Wodd B-sho nted eocl-icel h
0    00   0 .   '' ' oC 'the coov--ien- of the resd ra of                                                                  0
, ,, ,, t i ?,f<. , zI00  ,, th rhpwrr to which it s attched
.o.e... ...he.deTonh. d- o- od -d the                                                   I.9
. B.J^f A.N      0S0500t0         1000 so   o   ocndoene shown on this 5msp
do -ot;.sply. -o the pat of the
Wc,0 B-ok nd its Offlihtos any
' d",""'t -on the 101 stotO5 ofk/
any tnsr-n,y  ..5 oy snd-rsen,nott                                                                V,J0
cooptno ,,f -rTh b-d                                                                               '
....... .................... ..... Li--:,->H.-C:                                                   PROPOSED/
:  SO. ALIA                                                                                  POWER PLANT I
T.* HAD+,,' P. r A.y q,
- -I t -      -i dl/                                                                                                                 oI
/~~~~~~~~~\)/
16
TANZA4AI,0
EXISTING                        24
POWER PLANT
SOMALIA                                              \                              k,, 
MOGADISHU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
EXISTING WATER FACILITIES
*     PRODUCTION WELLS
-        WATER MAINS
INTERIM IMPROVEMENTS (Ongoing by Govermment)
*     PRODUCTION WELLS                                                      //      ,,,
WATER MAINS
PHASE I IMPROVEMENTS (IDA PNoject)
*     PRODUCTION WELLS
WATER MAINS
ROAD NETWORK                                               2D
MIEES9               i              2              3              /                                     N
KlLOMETERS6          j                  i         4A                      /          
45.010                   45 2U                   d5- 30
SHEK MUHIDIN                INVESTIGATION AREA
/2   \   CITY        \ \    M ) R~~~ESERVOIR                                          R<d 
- Roi-
\ y \ BOOST~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E,  o RverR
5MILES   °      5         1S B5l_d
\<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KLMTR 0t    II<5, 
'AC TORY                                                                              -2/ 209                                                    2' 20: S. -
2O10             2.10'\
I<,//   f  .;  ; NDItA N: OCEA NN   )n I/
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~35   45 5 Eno    OCA E                                                          / J H  
< -- 't' ; 0;02 04 ;00; 00 rf E 0;! g; ; ; 0. ; i -2-00 45°1U' /V4p2or000CEAM;  ; 



