Report No. PID8713
Project Name                     Mauritania-Fiscal Reforms Support...
Operation (FRSO)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Public sector reforms, with a focus on
reducing the tax burden on the private
sector and promoting private investment
and economic diversification
Project ID                       MRPE69820
Borrower(s)                      Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Nouakchott
Tel: (222) 253080
Fax: (238) 254281
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                February 11, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         March 2000
Projected Board Date             June 2000
Country and Sector Background
1.      Over the period 1993-98, GDP growth rate improved steadily, with an
average annual real growth rate of 4.7 percent, a substantial improvement
relative to the average growth rate of 0.8 percent of 1990-1992. Only in 1997
did the real GDP growth rate decelerate to less than 4.0 percent, mostly on
account of a poor performance in the fisheries sector. The average annual
inflation rate declined to 6.2 percent during 1993-98, from 7.2 percent in
1990-92. After a one-time deterioration due to the large budgetary cost of a
bank restructuring operation in 1993 -- totaling about 7 percent of GDP -- the
fiscal balance improved steadily and eventually went into surplus after 1995.
This reflected mainly the surge in fishing royalties due to the conclusion of
a new fishing agreement with the EU, and the decision to sterilize a sizable
share of that transfer. It was also the result of a wage bill containment and
declining defense expenditures in real terms that led to a steady reduction in
non-interest current expenditures. The external current account deficit
(excluding official transfers) also narrowed on average to about 10.5 percent
of GDP in 1993-98, compared to 17.6 in 1990-1992. Official reserves increased
to the equivalent of 4.6 months of imports of goods and non-factor services by
end-1998.
2.      Concomitantly with macroeconomic adjustment, the Mauritanian authorities
pursued a wide-ranging program of structural reforms since 1992. In the area
of general economic management, a VAT was introduced in 1995; a taxpayer
identification number was introduced in 1996; the two first stages of the
tariff reform were implemented in 1997-98; tax audits and custom
administration were strengthened; a tax credit scheme for externally financed
projects was established in 1996; a new budget nomenclature was adopted in
1998; and public expenditure management was strengthened by cutting non-



development expenditure and freezing military spending at its 1992 level.
Progress was made in restructuring five key economic ministries and in
decentralizing education, health and municipal services. In the area of trade
and exchange, the system of licensing was abolished; the number of tariffs and
other international trade taxes was reduced from 33 in 1996 to 5 in 1998, and
the combined maximum tariff rate was reduced to 30 percent, from 180 percent.
The requirement of prior approval by the Central Bank for current account
transactions was abolished; an inter-bank foreign exchange market was created;
and more than 40 foreign exchange bureaus were licensed. Further measures
implemented at end-1998 were the elimination of foreign exchange surrender
requirements for fish export proceeds and the lowering of the surrender
requirement of the national iron-ore company (SNIM) export proceeds from 100
to 85 percent.
3.      Social developments and poverty reduction have been an integral part of
the Government's reform program. During 1992-1998, despite fiscal
constraints, the Government increased spending in social sectors and targeted
poverty alleviation programs while managing, at the same time, to improve the
quality and effectiveness of its social expenditures. It is estimated that
between 1990-96, the incidence of poverty as a whole fell from 57 percent to
50 percent.
FRSO Objectives and Description
4.      To build on recent gains and accelerate progress in general, the
authorities have set the following medium-term goals: (i) to place the economy
on a higher sustainable growth path, thus increasing employment and reducing
poverty; and (ii) to achieve external viability. To these ends, the
Government of Mauritania's current strategy focuses essentially on:
(i) consolidating macroeconomic stability; (ii) increasing the volume of
investment as well as total factor productivity in the non-iron ore sectors;
(iii) deepening and accelerating structural reforms to stimulate competitive
private sector investment; and (iv) implementing a social development agenda,
especially in the education and health sectors.
5.      To achieve the above mentioned goals, the Government is committed to
fostering greater economic competitiveness, and stimulating higher direct
private investment and closer economic integration within the AMU, the OMVS,
and with the rest of the world. The authorities are therefore committed to
implementing an ambitious agenda of structural reforms, including: privatizing
key public enterprises - especially public utilities; modernizing the public
administration; modernizing the judiciary; strengthening natural resource
management; and improving efficiency and effectiveness of public resources
allocated to human resource development and poverty reduction programs.
6.      Mauritania is committed to undertaking a substantial harmonization of
tax and tariffs policies and investment incentives to facilitate its
integration into the regional and world economies. These ambitious objectives
would not only assist the poor but also contribute -over the medium-term to
diversifying the economy away from mining, fisheries and agriculture, which
have been the primary engines of growth. Closer integration would also give
Mauritania a larger regional market for goods in which it has a clear
comparative advantage -- in particular livestock and fisheries products --
plus an opportunity to benefit from more efficient services and industries
elsewhere in the region and thereby enhance its overall competitiveness.
- 2 -



While the potential economic gains are difficult to quantify, it is hard to
imagine a more prosperous Mauritania without a closer regional and
international integration. Moreover, Mauritania's membership in the AMU and
the OMVS, and close coordination with the WAEMU offer the assurance that
Mauritania's economic policies will be both better designed and more
harmonized with outward-oriented region-wide policies.
7.      In line with the above orientation a number of important decisions
regarding strengthening tax administration, broadening the tax base, and
reducing/eliminating tax and customs duty exemptions have already been taken.
A first phase of direct tax reform was implemented with the Council of
Ministers' declaration of October 6, 1999, and within the framework of the
Budget Law (Loi des Finances) 2000, approved by Parliament (Resolution
Nol47 AN dated December 6, 1999). With these instruments, the Government has
amended its tax regulations to: (i) reduce the property tax from 30 percent to
20 percent; (ii) introduce an accelerated tax depreciation rate system;
(iii) extend loss carry over from 3 to 4 years; (iv) introduce a withholding
system on property transfer tax; (v) introduce a withholding tax system of
16 percent on non-commercial income; and (vi) increase from 25 percent to
50 percent the deduction of the minimum presumptive tax (Imp"t Minimum
Forfaitaire) from the Corporate Income Tax.
8.      The second phase of the direct tax reform will be implemented with the
budget 2001. It will: (i) reduce the corporate income tax from 40 percent to
35 percent; (ii) increase from 50 percent to 75 percent the deduction of the
Minimum Presumptive tax (Imp"t Minimum Forfaitaire) from the Corporate Income
Tax ( The last phase of the tax reform which will be implemented in 2002 will
increase the deduction of the minimum presumptive tax to 100 percent),
(iii) merge the corporate income tax with the non-commercial profit tax,
(iv) introduce a presumptive tax on small firms, (v) merge several property
taxes into one; and (vi) reduce from 13 to 5 the number of payroll tax
brackets.
9.      The agenda for the period 2001-02 envisages further reduction of the
burden of taxation on the economy. These are coupled with the removal of
inefficiencies in the tax, tariff and associated codes which are the results
of past attempts to offset the impact of high taxation on businesses. The
additional cuts to be made in the taxes and tariffs will be decided on the
basis of an effective taxation study planned for the second half of 2000. The
study will propose levels of adjustments that would advance Mauritania further
on the path of enhanced competitiveness, without jeopardizing its public
finances. The measures to be implemented during 2001-02, in support of tax
and tariff changes, cover the elimination of exonerations, the adoption of a
new Investment Code devoid of fiscal privileges and the abolition of ad hoc
enterprise privileges.
10.     Getting to the goals of higher growth and more rapid poverty reduction
will require public expenditure reforms as well. To enhance public
expenditure efficiency and increase resource allocation for the social sectors
and poverty reduction programs in line with the policies agreed upon under the
HIPC Decision Point document -- and with those that will be set under the
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) -- the Government is committed to
ensuring that public expenditure remains consistent with a sound macroeconomic
framework, making resource allocations according to priority policies, and
raising the efficiency of expenditures by minimizing the financial cost of
-3 -



budgetary management. In this context, the Government has decided to prepare
a medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF) for the education, health and
infrastructure sectors, which will be used as a tool to integrate the process
of sectoral decision-making and budget allocations according to GIRM's
priorities. The Government's aim is to implement the MTEF for education and
health in 2001, and for infrastructure in 2002. To provide the intellectual
underpinnings for these, the Mauritanian authorities intend to conduct
ongoing, rolling Public Expenditure Reviews (PERs), with the assistance of
Bank staff.
Financing
11.     The FRSO will be supported by an IDA Credit equivalent to about US$30
million. The Credit is expected to be disbursed in one tranche.
Implementation
12.     The implementation of the FRSO appears to be well under way, with
concrete results already seen in the implementation of the 1st phase of the
tax reform and in the 4th phase of the tariff reform; these are also seen in
the preparation of the PRSP, and in carrying out a privatization program and
other macroeconomic and sectoral reforms.
Sustainability
13.     The project preparation process is participatory and places the
responsibility for developing and monitoring the program on the Government
itself. The Government's full ownership of the program is expected to
increase the likelihood of producing sustainable benefits.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations
14.     Key lessons from similar operations in the Region and in the country
include the importance of: (i) Government ownership and strong constituency in
support of reforms; (ii) institutional capacity to implement and monitor
reforms; and (iii) clear objectives and effective monitoring of programs to
address short-term social and economic impacts of reforms. This being the
fifth structural adjustment operation for Mauritania, the implementation and
monitoring of the program incorporates lessons learned by: (i) letting the
level of Government commitment and capacity be part of the program execution;
and (ii) proceeding to program implementation with clearly defined development
objectives and an effective monitoring system.
Poverty Category
15.     The poverty category is "B".   The program is a poverty-focused
adjustment operation (see paras. 4 through 6). The program will address
poverty reduction by: (i) providing budget financing in support of the
Government's home-grown adjustment program; (ii) promoting private sector
development by accelerating privatization, further liberalizing the economy
and maintaining a viable and stable macroeconomic framework necessary for
growth, poverty alleviation and job creation; and (iii) improving management
and poverty orientation for public expenditure.
Environmental Aspects
16.     Environmental Aspects is 'C' -- environmental analysis is not required.
Benefits and Risks
-4-



17.     Benefits.  The implementation of the direct tax reform and the
harmonization of Mauritania's tariff with the common tariff of the WAEMU
should assist Mauritania's growth over the medium and long-term by improving
resource mobilization, private investment flows, economic diversification and
external trade while enhancing the efficiency and productivity of public
resources.
18.     Risks.  Since 1992, Mauritania's adjustment and structural reform record
has been steady. Government commitment to structural reform and poverty
reduction has increased over time as evidenced by the successful
implementation of the previous adjustment operation ("Public Resource
Management Credit"). In addition, the ambitious divestiture program and
other sectoral reforms proposed under the 1999-2002 PFP are on track. At the
time of the launch of the PRSP in early December 1999, the Government again
reaffirmed its commitment to both the reform process and the regional
integration. In this respect, the Government has already taken a number of
important up-front actions (paras. 16 & 18) and begun implementing a number
of the reforms programmed for 1999-2002.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Miguel J. Saponara
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-4951
Fax:        (202) 473-8136
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending Fabruary 18, 2000.
- 5 -



