Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7375 MAU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPME:NT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONNA
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR A
FISCAL REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 22.4 MILLION
(US$30 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
April 27,2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               =               Mauritanian Ouguiyas (UM)
US$1                        =               232.:515UM  (asofMarch3l,2000)
SDR I                       =               US$1.34326 (as of March 31, 2000)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRLONYMS
AfDB           African Development Bank
AMU            Arab Maghrebian Union
BCM           Banque Centrale de la Mauritanie (Central Bank of Mauritania)
BMCI          Banque iVlauritanienne pour le Commerce et lI 'ndustrie (Bank for Commerce and Industry)
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CET           Common external tariff
CG             Consultative Group
CNRCIP         Centre National de Recherche Oceanogravhique et des Peches (Fisheries Research Center)
CPI            Consumer Price Index
ESAF           Enhanced Structural Adjustmnent Facility
EU             European Union
FDI            Foreign Direct Investment
FRSO           Fiscal Reform Support Operation
GBM            Geinerale des Banques de Mauritanie (General Bank of Mauritania)
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GIRM           Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania
GNFS           Goods and non-factor services
GNP            Gross National Product
HIAL          High Impact Adjustment Lending
HIPC           Highly Indebted Poor Countries
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank)
IDA            International Development Association
IFC            International Finance Corporation
IMF            International Monetary Fund
METR           Marginal Effective Tax Rate
MTEF           Medium-term Expenditure Framework
OMVS           Organisation de la Mise en Valeur du Flezrve Senegal
ONS            Office Nationale de la Statistique (National Statistics Office)
OPEC           Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PE             Public Enterprises
PER            Public Expenditure Review
PFP            Policy Framnework Paper
PRSP           Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PIP            Public Investment Program
SNIM          Societi Nationale Industrielle et Miniere (National Industrial & Mining Company)
SONELEC       Societe Nationale d 'Electricite (National Water & Eleciricity Company)
SMCP          Societei Mauritanienne de Commercialisation de Poissons (Fish Commercialisation Company)
SSA            Sub-Saharan Africa
UN             United Nations
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme
VAT           Value Added Tax
WAEMU          West African Economic and Monetary Union
Vice-President             Jean-Lcuis Sarbib
Country Director           Hasan l'uluy
Sector Manager             Emmanuel Akpa
Task Team Leader           Miguel Saponara



FOR OMFFIAL USE ONLY
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FISCAL REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY .............................i
I. COUNTRY 1BACKGROUND AND ECONOMY                                 .I
RECENT PROGRESS ON REFORM POLICIES 1993-98                        ..3
A. MACROECONOMIC POLICIES AND PERFORMANCE                             .3
B.  STRUCTUJRAL, REFORMS ..............3..............................................3
C.  SOCIAL POLICIES ..........................................................  , .      5
II.  MAURITAN'A'S ONGOING ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM ...........................................................6
A.  AN EVEN MORE AMBITIOUS AGENDA, 1999-2002 ....................... ....................................6
B.  MEDIUM TERM PROSPECTS AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS .....................................................7
Economic and Financial Objectives for 1999-2002 ...........................................................7
External F'inancing Requirements ...........................................................7
III. THE PROPOSE) LOAN ...........................................................8
A. LINKS WITH THE CAS AND RATIONALE FOR THE CREDIT                      .8
Tax And Tar.iff.Reforms.8
PublicExExpenditure.10
B. THE PROPOSED S,UPPORT TO THE REFORM AGENDA. 10
C. SPECIFIC: ACTIONS REQUIRED FOR THIS CREDIT.11
D. CREDIT F'EATURES AND IMPLEMENTATION.12
IV. BANK OPE RAT IONS .....................13
VJ. COLLABORATION WITH IM AND DONORS .....................15
VI. RECOMME.NDAiTION .......................................... 15
ANN EXES.                                               .........................................  1
ANNEXES
A -- Poverty and Social Development Indicators
B -- Key Economic Indicators
C -- External Financing Requirements and Sources of-Financing
D -- Status of Bank Group Operations
E -- Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
F -- Policy Mvatrix & Key Monitoring Indicators
G -- Mauritanlia at a Glance
H -- Government Letter of Development Policy
This doumnt has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of hier offlicial duties. ItS contents mayt not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank auIthorztion.                                            ___
C. .   SP CFC    C IN        RE UIE     FO_HSC E I   ...................................... 






ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FISCAL REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMIvIARY
Borrower:          Eslamic Republic of Mauritania
Amount:            SDR 22.4 million, (US$30 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years
Program
Objectives:        The proposed Fiscal Reform Support Operation (FRSO), which is based on
the High Impact Adjustment Lending (HIAL) model, is an integral part of the
Bank's strategy as set forth in the 1997 CAS to help the Government of the
Islamic Republic of Mauritania (G[RM) ensure the implementation of sound
macroeconomic policies and strong sectoral reforms, while vigorously
pursuing its social and poverty reduction objectives. The proposed Credit
'will assist Mauritania in maintaining macroeconomic stability and in gaining
competitiveness. The proposed measures are essential to the enhancement of
Mauritania's growth prospects. Furthermore, the reforms supported by the
operation are necessary to create an environment conducive to private sector-
led economic growth. Also, by focusing o:n revenue mobilization and the
reallocation of public resources towards three priority areas, namely
education, health and poverty reduction programs, this operation would
ensure that these key sectors/programs would not suffer from budgetary cuts
during the transition period, and would have a direct and positive impact on
the GIRM's efforts towards poverty reduction.
Credit
Description:       The strong reform program implemented by Mauritania during the early part
of the 1990s has generated many positive results. To Ibuild on those, the
authorities have elaborated a reinforced reform agenda to be implemented
over the period 1999-2002. This proposed one tranche operation in the
amount of US$30 million is designated as the first of possibly three
operations to support Mauritania's advanced agenda aimed at:
(i) harmonizing the corporate and personal tax regime with its neighboring
countries, in particular, the Arab Maghrebian Union (AMU), and with Mali
and Senegal -- its OMVS partners; (ii) aligning its external tariffs with its
neighboring countries; (iii) continuing to implement sound macroeconomic
policies, strong structural refortms and poverty reduction strategy; and
(iv) facilitating Mauritania's ecolnomic integration into the regional and
global economy. The Government has takcen up-front actions in the four
above mentioned areas.
i



Benefits:          The implementation of the direct tax reform and the harmonization of
Mauritania's tariff with its neighboring countries should assist Mauritania's
growth over the medium and long-term by improving resource mobilization,
private investment flows, economic diversification and external trade., while
enhancing the efficiency and productivity of public resources. Also, by
focusing on the efficiency of public expenditure and the reallocation of
public resources towards education, health and poverty reduction program,
this credit helps protect budgetary spending in these three areas which htave a
positive and direct impact on poverty reduction.
Risks:             Since 1992, Mauritania's adjustment and structural reform record has been
steady. Government commitment to structural reform and poverty reduction
has increased over time as evidenced by the successful implementation of the
Public Resource Management Credit (closed in December 1999). In
addition, the ambitious divestiture program and other sectoral reiforms
proposed under the 1999-2002 PFP are on track. At the time of the launch of
the PRSP in early December 1999, the Government again reaffirmed its
commitment to both the reform process and the regional integration. In this
respect, the Government has already taken a number of important up-front
actions and begun implementing a number of the reforms programmed for
2000-2002.
Estimated
Disbursement:      SDR 22.4 million (US$30 million equivalent) will be disbursed at Credit
effectiveness.
Schedule of
Disbursements:     The Credit will be disbursed in one tranche.
Financing
Plan:              100% IDA Financing.
ii



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONi OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELO]PMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR'S
ON A PROPIOSED FISCAL REFORM SUPI'ORT OPERATION CREDIT
TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAUIUTANIA
1.      I submit for your approval the following  report and recommendation  on  a proposed
development credit to the Islamic Republic of Mauritania for SDR 22.4 million, the equivalent of
US$30 million, to help finance a project for a Fiscal Reform Support Operation (FRSO). The credit
would be on standaird IDA terms, with an amortization period of 40 years, including a grace period
of 10 years. Tlhe credit fits into the ongoing Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and is justified on
the basis of significant up-front policy actions dealing largely with public finance management. In
addition, it would assist the government's regional integration effort, underpin private sector
development and strengthen the modernization of the publ ic sector.
I.  COUNTRY BACKGROUND AND ECONOMY
2.      Mauritania's        traditional
cultural  ties  withi the  Maghreb             P                  Mauritania IA o        ie
countriesto  the  Nrth  and    ith   hP"sazion. About 25 millfion, with 14 miillion living in urban areas
countries to  the  North  and  with    (1998). Rapid growth rate (3.2 percent and rapid pplation     e
Senegal and Mali in the South and    ma urbanization (6.9 pxecent).
East reflect a complex dual culture            A Narrow   nonomic Sa  An indusrial sector dominated by  i     n
fisheries ativies, whic tgete provid al exfr eaming4 and a r eura
that is undergoing rapid social and    which mploysanestme5pent ofa fore   ent                          _
economic   transformation.           At    in the SeaRievaney offerthe potenialfrmodemn agriculure and
independence  in  1960, Mauritania    di'onif tah   of producon. Livestockholds potenid  as well, but ned to be
better itegrated ito the modem economy.
was essentially  a nomadic society             Te       en     I t9  pe     of the lad suraceidesert The
and only 5 percent of the population    is a fundamental need   protect arabe land (0.5 pecent of ie. tota surtce
lived  in  urban  conglomerations. |m further degradao  and from encroachmen of tiod dm;es_
Due to heavy rural-urban .migration,    of uagation in the Senegal River valley, on thecother hand, must balance
Due to heavy rural-urban migration, en , Xo   ax  o:     x.sin                          #h    o    p vl
economic, ecological and social concers and gusrantie the longterm provisio
particularly  over the  last decade,   of an ardficia flood fr traditional flood recession agriculure. lmprovd
more than half the population now           resource mnagementh including better surveillance i critical for sanurding-
livesin uban  entes. Nuakcott,   the rich fishig grouns against over-exploitation  In urban areas, the nost
lives nm urban centers. Nouakohott,                                                                it  supply
the capital city, represents one third    and wasreran ae---Vment,
of the total population. The working           History of Snk Retatios The fs  ank opemin in Mauritmia was an
population is estimated at 680,000    IDA credit of US8 nmillion for a Roads project in 1964. Se the, tere have
been 62 Bank Grop peantions: 54 IDA Credits, 3 113RB  Loas ad 5-WC
people, of which the modem  sector,   invesunesw  Tweve operation ae cureny under imlmenttion. At end
including the civil service, employs    February 20  onginal commtnnts s                at US$     mio   and
only   about   60,000.           Urban    disburments at  ;US4 milim  with an undisbursed balance of USS138
only   about   60,000.  Urban  ~~million.
unemployment, a  result of rapid               Pa*  0wXk. li:n 1991, opposition political prties were legalized an-da
rural-urban   rnigraLtion   and   the    new Constution was radfid in a ntial referendum followed by legislative
inabilty  to   bsorb   he  unsilled and presidential telecisn. Mauritania thus became th- firs member of the Arab
inability  to  absorlb  ihe  unskilled         i      ia s a*             b       frs       ne      rd el
aLeag  to hol direc iredental electios  Leslfive elecons were again
labor   force,   IS   estimated   at   held in Oer 1996 with  esidential eletions in January 1998. Mauritani
26 percent.                                 has held mrunipal cltions for seveal years and they hv become
praice in th ountry. These developm    augr well for  l sbily.



Mauritania
3.     A common image of Mauritania is one of
a sparsely populated country, with a nomadic                  2: Snr   Een i; Indicators
population, limited resources, and poor social and   Ra IW   a
economic performance indicators, and this was   GD?                                     137    3.2
indeed the case less than a decade ago. Less well   xpts(FS479                                  4.81
known is the fact that since 1992, Mauritania has SbrsonoiaG?                             .322
successfully  managed  a  major  simultaneous   Gsi0 ig.1                                       1
transition to economic and political liberalization.   Gosdmsi aig                              .
From   1992,  a  technically  competent  and    .     .oSno                            '78.    79.
committed   economic  team    designed   and   Oealsrlsodfot(xl rns                     2S      2
implemented    a   far   reaching    set   of    r                                              .6 
macroeconomic (Boxes 2 and 3) and structural          t   cn Balance: (% o GD?)
reformns, aimed  at liberalizing  the  economy,   nldgoci  rnses.4
providing  for fast growth  of incomes  and   Deb Sv  I Exot                           160.         l
improvements in social indicators. As a result of    te.                           . g        i
these  policies,  public  finances  have  been             (?, nna a               i 0          4.6
stabilized, structural reforms have been largely                                    . 7    ..1
completed and Mauritania's GDP has grown by           S                  Ski   R  rrs
about 4.2 percent per annum over the past
5 years. Moreover, as a result of a conscious effort to reorient public resources to the social sectors,
education and health indicators have significantly improved. Overall, the government's program
contributed to a measurable decline in the incidence of poverty in Mauritania, from an estimated 57
percent in 1990 to about 50 percent in 1996.
4.     Although Mauritania's economy hasBx3:M riaaPocyrnte
become substantially liberalized since the                                     1
early  1 980s, the economic structure still OvrlMaoenoiPoiySnc Por                       Aqat
presents  a  sharp  contrast  between  a FiclPiyStneerPorAeut
relatively   small  modem    sector   and    Moet   o   Sc                     Ver Poor  Adequate
traditional subsistence sectors. The modemn ~       ~    Sac                    udeso   ieaie
sector, in  1998, represented  by  mining.NTB&QR
(1 3.9 percent of GDP), industrial fisheries   Mrei~otoc   aoEiot              ul        Nn
(3.8 percent of GDP), irrigated agriculture   PC o   ....                     Full       None
(5.7 percent of GDP) and  a  small but Go.ItretninPdutvSeosHey                           Liid
growing  manufacturing  sector consisting 
mainly of light industries (4.4 percent of   St~~PP adBn/M   tf eot
GDP), provides direct and indirect employment for about 60,000 people only (8 percent of the
working population). The rural sector represents 24.4 percent of GDP; livestock, rainfed and flood
recession agriculture, and to a lesser extent, artisanal fisheries and forestry, constitute the rnain
components of the rural economy. Traditional livestock is a significant but unrecorded contributor
to exports. Artisanal fishing has grown rapidly since the early 1 990s, today it contributes 7 percent
of total fishing exports and employs an estimated 5 percent of the working population.
2



Fiacal Reform Support Operation
RECENT PROGRESS ON REFORM POLICIES 1993-98
A.  MACR'OEICONOMIC POLICIES AND PERFORMANCE
5.    Over the periocl 1993-98, GDP growth rate improved steadily, with an average annual real
growth rate of 4.4 percent, a substantial improvement relative to the average growth rate of
0.8 percent of 1990-1992. Only in 1997 and 1998 did the real GDP growth rate decelerate to less
than 4.0 percent, mostly on account of a poor performance in the fisheries sector. The average
annual inflation rate declined to 6.2 percent during 1993-98, from 7.4 percent in 1990-921. After a
one-time deterioration due to the large budgetary cost of a bank restructuring operation in 1993 --
totaling about 7 percent of GDP -- the fiscal balance improved steadily and eventually went into
surplus after 1995. This reflected mainly the surge in fishing royalties due to the conclusion of a
new fishing agreement with the EU, and the decision to sterilize a sizable share of that transfer. It
was also the result of a wage bill containment and declining defense expenditures in real terms that
led to a steady reduction in non-interest current expenditures. The external current account deficit
(excluding official transfers) also narrowed on average to about 12.5 percent of GDP in 1993-98,
compared to 1:5.8 in 1990-19922. Official reserves increased to the equivalentr of 4.6 months of
imports of goocds and non-factor services by end- 1998.
6.    Key factors underlying Mauritania's progress over the above mentioned period were:
(i) a realignment of relative prices, prompted by a 45 percent devaluation of the exchange rate at the
onset of the 1992 program in October of that year; (ii) the containment of domestic demand through
strong lfiscal consolidat:ion and tight monetary policy, together with structural reforms as discussed in
para. 7 below; (iii) substantial debt relief resulting from two concessional Paris Club reschedulings
in 1993 and 1995; (iv) increased availability of foreign financing on concessional terms; and
(v) favorable terms of trade during the period 1994-93.  The Exchange rate policy was less
successful over the period. In several instances, the Central Bank intervention policy limiting the
sale of foreign exchange and applying non-market rates res,ulted in both an overvalued exchange rate
and significant divergences between the official and the riarallel market exchange rates. A number
of corrective measures in the area of exchange rate policies have been taken in the last two years.
The IMF has supported Mauritania with various ESAF programs, of which the latest covers the
period 1999-2002. Tihe Bank, for its part, has supported Mauritania's efforts through a Public
Resource Management Credit and several sectoral operations.
B.  STRUCTURAL REFORMS
7.    Concomitantly with macroeconomic adjustment, the Mauritanian authorities pursued a wide-
ranging program of structural reforms since 1992. In the area of general economic management, a
VAT was introduced in 1995; a taxpayer identification number was introduced in 1996; the two first
stages of the tariff reform were implemented in 1997-98; tax audits and custom administration were
strengthened; a tax credit scheme for extemally financecl projects was established in 1996; a new
budget nomenclature was adopted in 1998; and public expenditure management was strengthened by
Excluding the inflationary peak of 1998 which was due to a 12 percent devaluation, the average inflation would
have been about 5.8 percent.
2  Including official transfers, the current account deficit narrowved on average from 7.2 to 2.1 percent of GDP
between the Iwo sub-periods.
3



Mauritania
cutting non-development expenditure and freezing military spending at its 1992 level. Progress was
made in restructuring five key economic ministries and in decentralizing education, health and
municipal services.
8.    In the area of trade and exchange, the system of licensing was abolished. By December
1999, the Mauritanian authorities had implemented the bulk of the agenda on tariff reforrns so as to
put the country in line with its neighbors. The number of tariff rates were reduced from 33 to '7, with
the minimum rate set at 0 percent and the maximum at 25 percent. The products were also
reclassified to put "necessities" at 0 percent, capital goods at 5 percent, and other consumer goods
within the ranges of 5 percent to 13 percent. The requirement of prior approval by the Central Bank
for current account transactions was abolished; an inter-bank foreign exchange market was created;
and more than 40 foreign exchange bureaus were licensed. Further measures implemented at end-
1998 were the elimination of foreign exchange surrender requirements for fish export proceeds and
the lowering of the surrender requirement of the national iron-ore company (SNIM) export proceeds
from 100 to 85 percent.
9.    In the financial sector, the Government divested its shares in all commercial banks and
liquidated the state-owned insurance company.  Banking supervision was strengthened., and
enhanced prudential regulations were adopted. The Central Bank moved towards market-lbased
management of instruments of liquidity, with the introduction of treasury bill auctions and the
creation of an inter-bank market.
10.   Restructuring of the public enterprises sector included a reform  of the legal and
institutional framework; the financial restructuring of the national mining company SNIM, and the
water and electricity company, SONELEC; the divestiture and elimination of a large number of state
monopolies. Subsidies and cross-debts were eliminated. Overall, about two thirds of public
enterprises were liquidated or privatized. However, the deteriorating financial situation of the state
air carrier was only addressed in late 1998 prior to its offer for sale. Along with these actionrs, the
Government abolished most of the state monopolies as well as restrictions to private sector
investment in previously reserved sectors, such as mining and fisheries.
11.   To spur rural development, the Government implemented a land-tenure program,
established a country-wide cooperative credit system and decentralized the provision of rural
services. Several important policy measures were implemented to liberalize the rice sector, such as
the privatization of rice mills. Also, significant efforts were made on promoting efficiency and
diversification in agricultural production, particularly in underprivileged areas.
12.   Within fisheries, the Government adopted and implemented a comprehensive development
policy in 1994. Its main objective was to preserve the resource base and ensure efficient exploitation
through market-related mechanisms (license fees and access rights) instead of the pre-existing export
tax. The Government also reduced its involvement in the sector, by selling some of its share in joint
ventures and reducing its participation in the main export company (SMCP). However, resource
management and surveillance remained weak, and the National Oceanographic Research Center
(CNROP), the agency in charge of assessing resources and setting appropriate fishing limits, lacked
sufficient resources. In mid-1998, the Government, in agreement with donors, adopted a new
strategy, calling for an evaluation of the existing system and providing increased resources for
research and surveillance.
4



Fiscal Reform Support Operation
13.   In the area of inlstitutional capacity and governance, the reform of public administration
was initiated, wvith new laws passed for the Ministries of Economic Affairs and Development
(MAED), Finance (MF), Fisheries, Industry and Mining arnd Commerce. These fiive ministries have
been reorganized, and the MAED and MF were given clear responsibilities for economic
management. Improvements which began under the IDA-financed Public Resource Management
Credit, in statistical capacity as well as public expenditure and budget planning capacity continue to
date. In addition, a single reference file system for salaries and staff was implemented as well as a
medium-term programmning budget system, including an iritegrated monitoring system for recurrent
public expenditure, public debt service, investments and salaries.
C.    SOCIAL PIDLICIES
14.   Social developments and poverty reduction have been an integral part of the government's
reform program. During 1992-1998, despite fiscal constraints, the Government iincreased spending
in social sectors and targeted poverty alleviation prograrms while managing, at the same time, to
improve the quality ancd effectiveness of its social expenditures. It iis estimated that between 1990-
96, the incidence of poverty as a whole fell from 57 percent to 50 percent.
15.   In education, since 1992, Mauritania has engaged in a significant effort to increase the level
of education and skills of its population, particularly women. With the support of three IDA-
financed education projects, the Government expanded educational opportunities, trained more
teachers and improved the curricula. As a result, between 1990 and 1998, total gross primary school
enrollment increased from 46 to 86 percent and from 40 to 84 percent for girls3; enrollment in
secondary education rose by 56 percent, with girls forming 41 percent of the total; the number of
students in technical education doubled from 800 to 1,680., with girls representing about one-third of
the total; and higher education enrollment at the Universiliy of Nouakchott increased by 71 percent,
with girls accounting for 13.2 percent of the total. This effort was supported by an increase in
education expenditure firom 4.2 percent of GDP in 1990 to 4.9 percent in 1998. In early 1999, the
Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania (GIRI4) adopted an overall educational reform
program, which the country has begun to implement with the 1999/2000 school year.
16.   In health, population and nutrition, the Government has been implementing a Health
Sector Policy, adopted in 1991 and which was updated in 1998. [n parallel to this, a Population
Policy and a Populationt Action Plan which were adopted in consultalion with stakeholders, have also
been under inmplernentation.  The main thrusts of the health sector policy have been: the
development ol'primarny health services (particularly, outreach serv'Aces and first referral hospitals);
emphasis on cost effective interventions such as prevention activities; decentralization of the
decision making process; set up of a cost recovery mechanism  for drugs and services; and
reconsideration of the role of private health providers and NGOs. In 1999, the implementation of
policy measures in the health sector gradually improved: (i) the budget allocation for recurrent
expenditures has reached 7.0 percent of total public budget for recurrent expenditures, which
translates into an increase of 0.5 percentage points compared to 1998; (ii) about 280 primary health
facilities were functioning and accessibility to these was estimated at 65 percent; (iii) all 12 willayas
3 Mauritania's girls' enrollment ratio of 79 percent for 1998, cormpared to 85 percent for boys, represents the best
outcome in the group of Francophone African countries.
5



Mauritania
have been provided with properly staffed and equipped hospitals; and (iv) cost recovery has been
generalized to all primary health services.
17.   In addition, the authorities launched in early December 1999 the preparation of a Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) with the full participation of the civil society, NGOs and doncirs.
18.   Status of the Policy Dialogue. In the course of several years of policy dialogue preceding
this operation, the Government has become convinced that the role of the State must change as the
economy becomes more liberalized. The Government has acknowledged that sound economic
management, conducted by dynamic and competent institutions, is crucial to its ability to act
efficiently as promoter of economic development and regulator of economic activities. In line with
its new role, the Government is committed to taking the necessary steps to strengthen its macro-
economic and sectoral management capacity, rationalize and modermize its public sector apparatus,
and promote the role and development of the private sector so that it can effectively become the
basis of Mauritania's development. The Government's readiness to implement the needed second-
generation reforms and to claim ownership of the process has been confirmed at the highest levels
during joint Government-Bank discussions on Mauritania's economic and social development
prospects during the negotiations of the Ninth-Year Policy Framework Paper (PFP), 1999-2002, and
the preparation of the HIPC Decision Point Document.
II. MAURITANIA'S ONGOING ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A.    AN EVEN MORE AMBITIOUS AGENDA, 1999-2002
19.   To build on recent gains and accelerate progress in general, the authorities have set the
following medium-term goals: (i) to place the economy on a higher sustainable growth path, thus
increasing employment and reducing poverty; and (ii) to achieve external viability. To these ends,
the government's current strategy focuses essentially on: (i) consolidating macroeconomic stability;
(ii) increasing the volume of investment as well as total factor productivity in the non-iron ore
sectors; (iii) deepening and accelerating structural reforms to stimulate competitive private sector
investment; and (iv) implementing a social development agenda, especially in the education and
health sectors.
20.   To achieve the above mentioned goals, the Government is committed to fostering greater
economic competitiveness, and stimulating higher direct private investment and closer economic
integration with the rest of the world. The authorities are therefore committed to implementing an
ambitious agenda of structural reforms, including: privatizing key public enterprises -- especially
public utilities; modernizing the public administration; modernizing the judiciary; strengthening
natural resource management; and improving efficiency and effectiveness of public resources
allocated to human resource development and poverty reduction programs.
21.   The authorities have already begun implementing this more ambitious reform agenda.
During 1999, a satisfactory macroeconomic framework was maintained. The average inflation rate
for the twelve months declined from 8.1 percent in 1998 to an estimated 4 percent for 19991; and
foreign exchange reserves of the Central Bank reached, at end-1999, the equivalent to 5.4 months of
imports, which was higher than initially projected. On the structural front, the execution of measures
included in the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) matrix proceeded according to the calendar  In
6



Fiscal Reform Support Operation
January 1999, the Government implemented the third plhase of the tariff reform by reducing the
combined maximum tariff rate to 25 percent. Key steps were taken towards the planned divestiture
of major public enterprises. The invitation of bids and the evaluation of the proposals for the
privatization of Air Mauritanie were completed in August; and an estimate of the budgetary impact
of separating the postal and telecommunications functions of OPT was included in the 2000 budget.
The privatization process of SONELEC was launched as scheduled. In addition, in October, the
Government approved a detailed plan for the reform of the direct tax system and administration.
Moreover, the Government eliminated both the quota system for rice import:s and government
intervention in establishing prices paid to producers, and abolished all marketing subsidies on local
rice. To enhance the responsiveness of the exchange rale to market forces and reduce the spread
between the inler-bank and the parallel market rates, the Central Bank started to operate bi-weekly,
buying and selling sessions of cash foreign exchange directly to fore:ign exchange bureaus.
22.   A detailed description of the government's macroeconomic and sectoral policy reforms for
1999-2002 has been provided in both the Ninth-Year PFP, as well as the HIPC Decision Point
Document which was approved by the Board on January 28, 2000.
B.  MEDIUM TERM PROSPECTS AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
ECONOMIC AND FINA:NCIAL OBJECTIVES FOR 1999-201)2
23.   Mauritania's macroeconomic objectives for 1999--2002 are 1-.o: (i) achieve an average annual
rate of real growth close to 5.2 percent; (ii) narrow the external current account deficit (excluding
official transfers) from  12.3 percent of GDP in 1998 to 8.2 percent in 2002; (iii) increase
international reserves to the equivalent of 5-6 months of imports by the same year; and (iv) reduce
inflation to 2.5 percent by 2002.
EXTERNAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS.
24.   Implementatioin of the reform program described above will contribute significantly to
strengthening the balance of payments. Taking into account the current account deficit, scheduled
external debt-service payments, the programmed reduction in arreais and the target accumulation of
external reserves, the gross external financing requirements would average about US$218.8 million
per year in 2000-2002. Official disbursements (transfers and project loans) are expected to average
US$117.8 million over the projection period, with a decreasing share accounted for by SNIM as its
externally financed investment projects wind down aft-r 2000. In 2000, the financing gap of
US$91.4 million is expected to be covered by: (i) highly concessionial program disbursements from
official sources; (ii) net use of IMF resources under the PRGF arrangement amounting to SDR 6.3
million; (iii) debt relief through a new Paris Club flow reschedulinig (covering arrears and current
maturities) on Cologne terms, and comparable treatment from non-Paris Club creditors. For 2001
and 2002, the financing gaps are projected at US$87.90 million and US$89.3 million, respectively,
excluding purchases from the IMF, balance of payments support from other donors, or any
rescheduling or forgiveness that might be obtained for those years. In order to CDver those gaps, the
Government intends to request financial support from the World Bank, the IMF and other
multilateral and bilateral institutions. On March 16, Mauritania was granted a rescheduling by the
Paris Club on highly concessional terms.
7



Mauritania
III. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.  LINKS WITH THE CAS AND RATIONALE FOR THE CREDIT
25.   The proposed Fiscal Reform Support Operation (FRSO), which is based on the High Impact
Adjustment Lending (HIAL) model, is an integral part of the Bank's strategy as set forth in the 1997
CAS (Report 16595 dated May 21, 1997, and discussed by the Board on June 17, 1997) to help the
GIRM ensure the implementation of sound macroeconomic policies and strong sectoral reforms,
while vigorously pursuing its social and poverty reduction objectives. The proposed Credit will
assist Mauritania in maintaining macroeconomic stability and in gaining competitiveness. The
proposed measures are essential to the enhancement of Mauritania's growth prospects. Furthermore,
the reforms supported by the operation are necessary to create an environment conducive to private
sector-led economic growth. Also, by focusing on revenue mobilization and the reallocation of
public resources towards three priority areas, namely education, health and poverty reduiction
programs, this operation would ensure that these key sectors/programs would not suffer from
budgetary cuts during the transition period and would have a direct and positive impact on the
GIRM's efforts towards poverty reduction.
26.   The strong reform program implemented by Mauritania during the early part of the 1990s
has generated many positive results, as summarized in Section I above. To build on those, the
authorities have elaborated a reinforced reform agenda to be implemented over the period 1999-
2002. This proposed one tranche operation in the amount of US$30 million is designated as the first
of possibly three operations to support Mauritania's advanced agenda aimed at: (i) harmonizing the
corporate and personal tax regime with the Arab Maghrebian Union (AMU), and with Mali and
Senegal -- its OMVS partners; (ii) aligning its external tariffs with its neighboring countries4;
(iii) continuing to implement sound macroeconomic policies, strong structural reforms and poverty
reduction strategy; and (iv) facilitating Mauritania's economic integration into the regional and
global economy. The Government has taken up-front actions in the four above mentioned areas.
27.   The proposed operation fits, therefore, into our ongoing strategy of assuring adequate public
resources for essential social services, while taking care to not create undue fiscal pressure on the
private sector. We are proposing three quick-disbursing budgetary support credits over the period
2000-02. These would supplement our ongoing project assistance and would help ensure an orderly
transition towards a more friendly and sound fiscal regime for private investment, together with
greater regional and global integration which should help the Mauritanian economy establish a
stronger competitive position.
TAX AND TARIFF REFORMS
28.   Mauritania is committed to undertaking a substantial harmonization of tax and tariffs
policies and investment incentives5 to facilitate its integration into the regional and world economies.
4 Mauritania is a member of the Arab Maghrebian Union (AMU) and of the Senegal River Valley Development
Agency (OMVS). Mauritania withdrew from the Community of West African States (ECOWAS) in late
December 1999.
5  Reforms in the areas of direct tax, tariff, investment incentives and public expenditure management were
supported by IDA under the recently closed "Public Resource Management Credit" (Cr. 2887-MR).
8



Fiscal Reform Support Operation
These ambitious objectives would not only assist the poor but also contribute over the medium-term
to diversifying the economy away from mining, fisheries and agriculture, which have been the
primary engines of growth. Closer integration would also give Mauritania a larger regional market
for goods in which it has a clear comparative advantage -- in particular, livestock and fisheries
products -- plus an opportunity to benefit from more efficient services and industries elsewhere in
the region and to thereby enhance its overall competitiveness. While the potential economic gains
are difficult to quantify, it is hard to imagine a more prosperous Mauritania without a closer regional
and international initegration. Moreover, Mauritania's membership in the AMU and the OMVS, and
close coordination wvith the WAEMU offer the assurance that Mauritania's economic policies will be
both better designecl and more harmonized with outward-oriented region-wide policies.
29.   In line with the above orientation, a number of important decisions regarding strengthening
tax administration, broadening the tax base, and reducing/eliminating tax and customs duty
exemptions havie already been taken. A first phase of direct tax reform was implemented with the
Council of Ministers' cleclaration of October 6, 1999, and within the framework of the Budget Law
(Loi des Finances) :2000, approved by Parliament (Resolution NO147 AN dated December 6, 1999).
With these instruments, the Government has amended its tax regulations to: (i) reduce the property
tax from 30 percent to 20 percent; (ii) introduce an accelerated tax depreciation rate system;
(iii) extend loss carry over from 3 to 4 years; (iv) introduce a vwithholding system on property
transfer tax; (v) introduice a withholding tax system of 16) percent on non-commrercial income; and
(vi) increase from 25 percent to 50 percent the deduction of the minimum presumptive tax (Imp6t
Minimum Forfaitaire) from the Corporate Income Tax.
30.   The second phase of the direct tax reform will be implemented with the 2001 budget. It will:
(i) reduce the corporate income tax from 40 percent to 3 5 percent; (ii) increase from 50 percent to
75 percent the deduction of the Minimum Presumptive tLx (Imp6t Minimum Forfaitaire) from the
Corporate Income Tax6; (iii) merge the corporate income tax with the non-commercial profit tax;
(iv) introduce a presumptive tax on small firms; (v) merge several property taxes into one; and
(vi) reduce frorn 13 to 5 the number of payroll tax brackets.
31.   On January 1, 2000, the maximum combined import rate was reduced to 20 percent, and the
statistical tax rate was uanified at 3 percent. There is comparable and ongoing progress on reforming
indirect taxation. In order to align these improvements on direct taxation wit1h those on indirect
taxations, on January 1, 2001, the Government will: (i) unify the two VAT rates (5 percent and
14 percent); (ii) abolishi all VAT exemptions; and (iii) phase-out tax exemptions given under the
Investment Code7.
32.   The agenda for the period 2001-02 envisages furthler reduct:ion of the burden of taxation on
the economy. These are coupled with the removal of inefficiencies in the tax, tariff and associated
codes which are the results of past attempts to offset the impact of high taxation on businesses. The
additional cuts to be made in taxes and tariffs will be decicled on the basis of a marginal Effective tax
6  In 2002 the deduction of the minimum presumptive tax will be 100 percent.
7  The implementation of the first phase of the tax reform and of the last phase of the tarifl reform coincide with
the end of the Fishing Agreement with the European Union (EU), which since 1996 has been providing
Mauritania with an annual revenue of about SDR 45.5 million. While it is expected that a new Fishing
Agreement would be signed, the EU compensation could be lower as it has happened in neighboring countries.
9



Mauritania
rate (METR) study planned for the second half of 2000. The study will propose levels of
adjustments that would advance Mauritania further on the path of enhanced competitiveness, without
jeopardizing its public finances. The measures to be implemented during 2001-02, in support of tax
and tariff changes, cover the elimination of exonerations, the adoption of a new Investment tCode
devoid of fiscal privileges and the abolition of ad hoc enterprise privileges.
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE
33.   Getting to the goals of higher growth and more rapid poverty reduction will require public
expenditure reforms as well. To enhance public expenditure efficiency and increase resource
allocation for the social sectors and poverty reduction programs, in line with the policies agreed
upon under the HIPC Decision Point document (Report P 7354-MAU dated January 12, 2000) and
with those that will be set under the PRSP, the Government is committed to ensuring that public
expenditure remains consistent with a sound macroeconomic framework, making resource
allocations according to priority policies, and raising the efficiency of expenditures by minimizing
the financial cost of budgetary management. In this context, the Government has decided to prepare
a medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF) for the education, health and infrastructure sectors,
which will be used as a tool to integrate the process of sectoral decision-making and budget
allocations according to GIRM's priorities. The Government's aim is to implement the MTEF for
education and health in 2001, and for infrastructure in 2002.  To provide the intellectual
underpinnings for these, the Mauritanian authorities intend to conduct multi-year Public Expenditure
Reviews (PERs), with the assistance of Bank staff.
34.   To this end, the Government will, in 2000, carry out a PER in the education and health
sectors, which will focus on: (i) an in-depth analysis of expenditure issues; (ii) budgetary procedures;
and (iii) the impact of these expenditures on poverty reduction. The PER will be extended, within
the framework of the PRSP, to other sectors over the next two years.
B.  THE PROPOSED SUPPORT TO THE REFORM AGENDA
35.   The proposed support will help close financial gaps created by the reforms. Given that
Mauritania's fiscal revenue is highly dependent on corporate taxes (about 31 percent of total fiscal
revenue) and on trade (about 18 percent of total fiscal revenue), the reduction of the corporate and
personal taxes between 2000 and 2002, the harmonization with the extemal tariff of its neighboring
countries, and the proposed reduction in petroleum taxes are likely to lead to significant revenue
losses. It is estimated that the net revenue losses in 2000 (after taking into account offsetting
receipts from the unification of the VAT rates), may amount to 5 billion Ouguiyas (UM) or US$22
million, of which UM 3 billion would be due to the cut in the maximum combined tariff rate to
20 percent and UM 2 billion due to the implementation of the first phase of the new corporaLte tax
structure and to changes in the taxation of petroleum products.
36.   On the expenditure side, continuation of the reforms will require additional expenditures
related to the preparation of specific programs and activities (full PRSP and related surveys and
national PERs in the education and health sectors). These additional financial needs further widen
the gap resulting from the tax and tariff reforms. Thus, during the year 2000, total expenditure and
net lending amount to UM 58.1 billion while net revenues amount to UM 54.8 billion. Taking into
account project-related grants of UM 4 billion net, foreign drawings of UM 0.5 billion, and net
10



Fiscal Reform Support Operation
domestic payments of UM 10.4 billion, a residual financing gap of UM 7.0 billion (US$30 million
equivalent) emerges (see Table 1).
37.    The aclvanced agenda reflects an even more courageous program under way, covering, in
addition to this fiscal area, key macroeconomic and sectoral issues. Much of the reforms have been
executed in 1998-99, thus justifying the support proposed under this Credit so as to keep these
reforms on track. A proposed follow-up operation in FY01 will also support continuation of the
reform program, which will be justified by the progress accomplished on the agenda during the
course of the year 2000.
Table 1. Public Finance Outlook in 2000
in billions of Ouguiyas (UM)
Total Revenue (with measures) and grants, of which:   61.0
Receipts                                57.0
Grants                                   4.0
Total Expenditure                         58.1
Overall Surplus                            2.9
Financing                                 -2.9
Net Extemal                              0.5
Net Intemal                            -10.4
Exceptional Financing                    7.0
Memorandum item
Revenue Losses                             5.0
Losses due to tax reform, of which:        2.0
corporate tax                            0.5
petroleum product taxation               1.5
Losses due to tariff reform                3.0
Financing Gap                  (US$30m)   7.0
C.   SPECIFIC ACTIONS REQUIRED FOR TH][S CREDIT
38.    The stage for this operation has been set by a number of important decisions already taken or
currently being taken and that will be fully implemented priior to Board presentation to
demonstrate the Government's determination to maintain and consolidate fiscal stability. These
decisions concern the following actions with regards to the amended tax regulations law  the
Government approved in December 1999:
(i)    reduce the property tax from 30 percent to 20 percent;
(ii)   introduce an accelerated tax depreciation rate system;
(iii)   extend loss carry over from 3 to 4 years;
(iv)   introduce a withholding system on property transfer itax;
(v)    introduce a withholding tax system of 14 percent on non-commercial income; and
(vi)   increase from 25 percent to 50 percent the deduction of the minimum presumptive
tax (Imp6t Minimum Forfaitaire) from the Corporate Income Tax (BIC) and from
non-commercial benefits (BNC).
1]



Mauritania
D.  CREDIT FEATURES AND IMPLEMENTATION
39.   Credit amount and financing. The Borrower will be the Islamic Republic of Mauritania.
The proposed amount of IDA financing is US$30 million equivalent. This amount is considered
adequate to support the momentum of policy reforms in the Mauritanian economy.
40.   Tranching. The Credit will be disbursed in one tranche of SDR 22.4 million (about US$30
million), which will be released at credit effectiveness. This one-tranche Credit is justified on the
basis of: (i) significant up-front policy actions dealing mostly with public finance; and (ii) the drop
in fiscal revenue due to the implementation of the fourth phase of the tariff reform and the reduction
of the corporate income tax rate.
41.   Disbursements. The Borrower will open an account in its Central Bank. Upon notification
of release for the tranche, proceeds of the Credit will be deposited by the Association in this account
at the request of the Borrower. If after deposit in this account, the proceeds of the Credit are used for
ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance goods or services in the standard negative list), the Association
will require the Borrower to refund the amount to the Credit Account.
42.   Auditing. The Association reserves the right to seek an audit of the account.
43.   Implementation and Monitoring.  The reform  program  under this Credit will be
implemented by the Ministry of Finance. Because this is a one-tranche operation, implementation of
the overall program as well as macroeconomic performance, will be monitored bi-annually in the
context of preparing the next credit, as well as jointly with the IMF through the PRSP.
44.   Agreements Reached and Conditionalities. The Government has fully met the conditions
referred to in paragraph 38.
45.   Benefits.  The implementation of the direct tax reform  and the harmonization of
Mauritania's tariff with the tariff of its neighboring countries should assist Mauritania's growth over
the medium and long-term by improving resource mobilization, private investment flows, economic
diversification and external trade, while enhancing the efficiency and productivity of public
resources. Also, by focusing on the efficiency of public expenditure and the reallocation of public
resources towards education, health and poverty reduction program, this credit helps protect
budgetary spending in these three areas which have a positive and direct impact on poverty
reduction.
46.   Risks. Since 1992, Mauritania's adjustment and structural reform record has been steady.
Government commitment to structural reform and poverty reduction has increased over time as
evidenced by the successful implementation of the Public Resource Management Credit (closed in
December 1999). In addition, the ambitious divestiture program and other sectoral reforms proposed
under the 1999-2002 PFP are on track. At the time of the launch of the PRSP in early
December 1999, the Government again reaffirmed its commitment to both the reform process and
the regional integration. In this respect, the Government has already taken a number of important
up-front actions (para.23) and begun implementing a number of the reforms programmed for 2000-
2002.
12



F'iscal Reform Support Operation
IV. BANK OPERATIONS
47.   Cumulative Bank Lending to Mauritania. The cumulative Bank Group's commitments to
Mauritania as of February 29, 2000, amounted to about US$726 million equivalent for 62 operations,
comprising 3 IBRD loans (US$146 million), 54 IDA credits (US$580 million), and 5 IFC
investments. The 54 IDA credits (42 closed and 12 active) include 4 adjuslment operations (2
SAL credits; I Agriculture SECAL credit; 5 Public Enterprise SECAL credits; 2 Financial/Private
SECAL credits); as well as 11 agriculture projects; 5 education projects; 3 health projects;
7 power/infrastructure/transport  projects;  1 telecomnrrunications  project;  2 urban  projects;
2 mining/gas projects; 1 finance/private sector capacity projecit; 6 public sector management
operations (6 credits and 4 reflow); and 2 IDF grants (finance). The 3 IBRD loans (all closed) were
for iron ore mining operations: US$66 million (1960), and US$60 million (1979) to SNIM for the
Guelbs Iron C)re project, and US$20 million (1985) for SNIM's rehabilitation.  The 5 IFC
investments include a copper mining project (1988), a gold mining joint venture (1991), an equity-
participation in a commercial bank (1996), and extended credit lines to two commercial banks
(BMCI in 1998@, anid GBM in 1999).
48.   Ongoing Lending Operations. Three ongoing operations support IDIA's strategy in the
agriculture sector. An Agricultural Services operation (US$18.2 million, FY94) is the first five-
year time slice of a long-term national program to uypgrade the supply of agricultural services
nationwide, strengthening the linkages between extension, researc h and agricultural training. The
Rainfed Natural Resource Management project (US$18 rnillion, FY97) is the first five-year slice of
a twenty year natural resource management program covering the whole rainfed zone of Mauritania.
The program aims at breaking the poverty spiral illustrated by the confluence of population growth,
environmental degradation and reduced agricultural production. The Integrated Development
Program for IrrigatedAgriculture operation (US$38.1 million, FY99) aims at increasing agriculture
value-added, incomrre and employment population living in the Senegal River Valley.
49.   To support huiman resource development, two ongoing operations in education and two in
health are being implemented. A Technical Education and Vocational Training Support project
(US$12.5 million, FY93) aims at helping to establish a coherent system of technical education and
vocational training, staffed largely by national instructors, efficient and responsive to labor market
demands. The General Education project (US$35 millior, FY95) has been assisting the Government
in implementing its education sector development program for the period 1995-2000 (providing
access to primary education, expanding access to lower secondary education, imiproving quality and
strengthening planning and management). The Health Sector Investment project (US$24 million,
FY98) aims at supporting the implementation of the government's policy for the sector during the
period 1998-2002 and improving the health status of the population. The Nutrition, Food Security
and Social Mobilization LIL operation (US$4.9 million, FY99) aims at evaluating the effectiveness
of specific activities combined into two different prototypes of programs (one urban, one rural) to
reduce child malnutrition in Mauritania in a measurable way.
50.   With respect to private sector development and improvement of the economy's
competitiveness, the 7inancial/Private Sector Capacity operation (US$7.2 million, FY95) aims at
assisting the Government in implementing a program of pri vate sector promotion through
strengthening the legal and regulatory framework surrounding business activities and creating an
environment that encourages and facilitates initiative oII the part of private investors. A Mining
13



Mauritania
Sector Capacity Building project (US$15 million, FY99) aims at strengthening the government's
capacity to act as a facilitator and regulator of mining activities and significantly increasing private
investment in Mauritania's mining sector. A Telecommunications and Postal Sectors Reform project
(US$10.8 million, FY99) aims to expand access to communications and information services at
competitive prices through establishing a legal, regulatory and institutional framework favorable to
competitive private provision of telecommunications infrastructure and services, and to postal
development. The Infrastructure and Pilot Decentralization project (US$14 million, FY96) aims at
reducing poverty by improving access to basic urban services, developing local private sector by
increasing the competitiveness of construction and consulting firms, supporting an initial pilot phase
of decentralization and improving public sector management.  The Regional Hydropower
Development project (Mauritania, Senegal, Mali) (US$11.1 million, FY97) aims at developing the
power component of the Manantali dam to generate economic and financial benefits, helping
minimize the long-term cost of electricity supply, contributing to increasing the efficiency of the
three power utilities, and promoting competitive private sector participation in project exploitation.
51.   Future Lending Operations. The lending program for the period FYOO-01 would also
include a Cultural Heritage project (FY00), a Power-Water Sector Reform TA project (FY00), and
an Urban project (FY01). Other future lending will be reviewed with Government in FY01 in the
context of the preparation of the next CAS.
52.   Aid Coordination. Mauritania's investment programs have benefited extensively from
external assistance provided by the Bank, the EU, the AfDB, UNDP, as well as France, Germiany,
Japan, Italy, a number of Arab Development Funds and the OPEC Fund. Donor activities are
effectively coordinated in a number of IDA operations under supervision. The last Consultative
Group (CG) Meeting took place in March 1998 in Paris. Donors pledged about US$450 million over
the next three years to support the country's public investment program.  Donors and the
Government agreed on the need to strengthen aid coordination in light of the large role external
financing plays in the public investment program. The next CG meeting is tentatively scheduled for
2001.
53.   Lessons Learned.  Achievements under adjustment and policy-based operations are
encouraging. This high performance can be attributed to: (i) sufficient efforts devoted to building
understanding and commitment to the program at the political and administrative levels particularly
during preparation of the operation; (ii) adequate sequencing and timing of their preparation; and
(iii) the financial leverage provided by the operation. The main lesson of these experiences is that,
in the case of Mauritania, economic management reforms stand a better chance of succeeding if
conducted in the context of structural or sectoral adjustment operations or as part of policy-based
investment operations.
54.   Looking ahead. Further measures that the Bank will support have been presented iin the
1999-2002 PFP. The pace and sequencing of these reforms will determrine the profile of our fulture
budgetary support. To proceed with the next operation, we would expect the Government to
implement, in a timely manner, the agreed fiscal and privatization action-plans, as indicated in
Annex F and the HIPC Decision Point Document.
14



Fiscal Reform Support Operation
V. COLLABORATION WITH IMF ALND DONORS
55.   The reform prDgram supported by the proposed credit is coordinated closely with the IMF's
PRGF program. Measures designed to improve the managemertt of public expenditure through
greater financial discipline and improved efficiency of public spending complement well the IMF's
support for revenue mobilization and expenditure control. The expenditure targets to be adopted in
the 2000-2002 budgets will be kept consistent with the PRSP objectives and sound fiscal policy.
IMF's structural policy benchmarks are developed in close consultation with IDA and stress the
complementarity of programs being implemented by the Iwo institutions.
56.   IDA staff have also closely collaborated with Mauritania's major donors. Parallel IDA, IMF
and EU missions are held regularly to review implementation of the econoniic reform program.
Close coordinationi with donors on the reform program is also ensured by the coordination and
participation of France, Germany, Japan, Spain and the UNDP, and by the participation of these
donors in thc PERs and other economic and sector work, as well as in i:he preparation and
cofinancing of sectoral operations..
VI. RECOMMENDATION
57.   1 am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
Presidlent
by Shengman Zhang
Washington, D).C.
April 27, 2000
Attachments
15






ANNEX A
FISCAL REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
MAURITANIA
]POVERTY AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS
Latest single fear             Same region/income group
Sub-
Saharan            Low-
1970-75     1980485       1992-97            Africa         income
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)             1.4          1.8          2.!5            612.4         2,035.6
Growth rate (0,% annual average)                2.3          2.6          2.3               2.2             1.7
Urban populatior (% of popLlation)               20.3         35.0         53.8              32.3            28.4
Total fertility rate (births perwoman)            6.5          6.1          5.5               5.5             4,0
POVERTY
(%/ of popuIation.
National headcount index                           ..           ..         50.0
Urban headcount index
Rural headcoLnt index                            ..
INCOME
GNP per capita (US$)                             330          380          440               !10             350
Consumerpriceindex(1995=100)                       ..          50           111)              118             122
Food price index (1995=10)                         ... 
INCOMEICONSIJMPTION DISTRIBUTION
Gini index                                         ..           ..         38.9
Lowest quintile ('Y. of income or consumption)     ..           ..          6.2
Highest quintile 1% of income or consumption)      ..           ..         45.6.
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expendilure
Health (% of GDP)                                ..           ..          1.                2.5             1.0
Education (% of GNP)                            3.3           ..          5.1               4.3
Social security and welfare (% of GDP)           ..
Net primary school enrollrnent rate
(36 of age group,
Total                                                        33            57
Male                                           ,.           ..          61
Female                                                                  53
Access to safe water
(% of population,l
Total                                            17          37            64                47             69
Urban                                         98           8C           87                74              80
Rural                                         10           Ief          41                32              66
Immunization rate
(% under 12 months)
Measles                                          ..          45           20                 58             74
DPT                                              ..           18          28                 53             76
Child malnutntioi (% under 5 years)                ..           ..           23
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                           43           41'           53                51              59
Male                                          42           4ti          52                49              58
Female                                        45           4'I          55                52              60
Mortality
Infant (per thousand live births)              142          117'          92                91              82
Under 5 (per thousand live births)             250          17'i          149              147             118
Adult (15-59)
Male (per 1, 000 population)                 539          50'i         344               428             274
Female (peir 1,001) population)              433          416          294               375             255
Matemal (per 100,0000 livea births)              ..           ..
1999 World Development Indicators CD-ROM, World Bank (SIMA)



ANNEX B
Page 1 of3
FISCAL REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
MAURITANIA
KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Actual                       Est.         Projected
1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
National Accounts (as % GDP at current market prices)
Gross domestic product             100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculture a/                    27.0    26.5    25.1    24.6    24.4    25.2    23.7    23.4    23.4
Industry a/                       31.1     31.4    31.3    29.7    31.2    29.3    31.0    30.4    29.8
Services al                       41.9    42.2    43.6    45.7    44.4    45.6    45.3    46.2    46.8
Total consumption                   83.1    91.1    92.8    91.9    93.7    88.3    88.3    88.1    88.0
Gross domestic fixed investment     20.7    19.3    18.6    17.7    20.2    22.3    23.7    22.6    22.6
Govemment investment               4.3      3.8     6.1      5.6      5.6      6.3     6.1      6.3      6.3
Private investment b/             16.4    15.5    12.5    12.1    14.5    16.1    17.5    16.3    16.3
Exports (GNFS) cd                   42.0    49.1    46.2    39.2    39.9    38.5    37.9    36.5    35.3
Imports (GNFS)                      45.8    59.5    57.7    48.9    53.8    49.1    49.8    47.2    46.0
Gross domestic savings              16.9      8.9     7.2      8.1      6.3    11.7    11.7    11.9    12.0
Gross national savings d/           21.2    13.9    17.8    19.2    19.1    26.7    23.7    23.1    22.8
Memorandum items:
Gross domestic product e/         1,026.8  1,068.2  1,114.9  1,096.3   999.5   959.3  1,033.8  1,107.3  1,181.8
GNP per capita (US$, Atlas method.)  473.8   450.4   461.3   444.1   409.9   385.0   389.7   401.4   422.5
Reai annual growth rates (in %, calculated from 1985 prices)
Gross Domestic Product, mp           4.6      4.6      5.5     3.2      3.2      4.3      5.0     5.5      6.0
Gross Domestic Income               -1.3      7.4     2.1      5.3      3.4      4.8      6.3     2.6      4.7
Real annual per capita growth rates (in %, calculated from 1985 prices)
Gross Domestic Product, mp           1.7      1.8      2.6     0.4      0.4      1.5      2.2     2.8      3.2
Total consumption                  -13.7      8.2    -3.6    -1.9    10.4    -1.1         5.1     0.4      1.8
Private consumption                -12.9    11.8    -3.9    -1.8    10.9    -2.0          6.0     0.3      1.7
(continued)



ANNEX B
Page 2 of 3
FISCAL REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
MAURITANIA
KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS (continued)
Actual                       Est.        Projected
1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Balance of Payments (USS millions)
Exports (GNFS) cl                 430.9   524.7   515.6   430.1   :398.9   369.5   391.4   404.7   417.8
Merchandise FOB                 393.1   478.6   484.3   408.0  :359.7   333.1   351.8   361.0   369.6
Imports (GNFS)                    469.8   635.6   643.4   536.0   537.9   471.2   514.9   523.0   543.8
Merchandise FOB                 303.8   395.4   402.9   355.4   :357.9   304.7   339.9   339.6   350.8
Resource balance                  -38.9  -110.9  -127.7  -105.8  -139.0  -101.7  -123.5  -118.3  -126.0
Net current transfers f/           55.0    61.9   143.7   163.1   140.7   151.5   129.1   130.4   132.3
Current account balance lgl       -10.6   -71.5.   -29.4    16.3   -15.2    26.4        0.8      5.5     2.0
Net private foreign direct investment  2.8   6.8    -0.4    -3.3    -0.3       0.0      1.4     4.1      7.0
Long-term loans (net)              78.2    46.8    22.7   -35.9   -33.6   -24.3   -22.1   -41.2   -41.0
Official                         81.7    41.9    58.3    26.9   -46.8         ...      ...     ...
Private                          -3.5      4.8   -35.6   -62.8    13.2        ...              ...      ...
Other capital (net)               -81.5   149.3    73.9    83.6    67.8    21.3    40.7    48.9    52.0
Change in resenres h/              11.0  -131.4   -66.7   -60.6   -18.7   -23.4   -20.8   -17.3   -20.0
Memorandum if ems:
Resource balance (% of GDP, mp)     -3.8   -10.4   -11.5    -9.7   -13.9   -10.6   -11.9   -10.7   -10.7
Real annual growth rates (in %, 1985 prices)
Merchandise exports (fob)          45.0    14.6      3.0   -17.8    -1.8       5.6      2.9      0.7     1.9
Primary                             ..      ..      ..       ..       ..      ..       ..
Manufactures
Merchandise imports (cif)         -11.2    29.4    -3.6    -6.4    14.1    -2.3    13.2    -9.0    -0.5
Public Finances of thie Central Government (as % of GDP, current market prices)
Current revenues il                24.7    25.3    31.1    27.0    27.5    29.5    26.0    25.1    24.9
Current expenditures                18.0    17.8    17.1    16.6    17.2    17.9    17.5    16.7    16.5
Currentaccountbalance iV            6.7      7.5    14.0    10.4    10.2    11.5        8.5      8.4     8.4
Capital expenditire                 9.1      6.8      6.7     5.9      7.3     7.5      7.5      7.5     7.6
Foreign financin! ji                9.4      5.7      4.4     1.2    -0.9    -1.0    21.0    -3.7    -3.5
(continued)



ANNEX B
Page 3 of 3
FISCAL REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
MAURITANIA
KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS (continued)
Actual                        Est.         Projected
1994    1995     1996     1997      1998     1999    2000    2001       2002
Monetary Indicators
M2/GDP (at current market prices)    21.6     18.8    16.1      16.0    14.7    14.1       13.9     13.9     13.9
Growth of M2 (in %)                   -0.5    -5.1     -5.1      8.0      4.1      2.1      9.3      8.5      7.2
Private sector credit change /     -277.0    59.5   -33.7   -36.0    -29.4  -187.8  -1,084.2          ...      ...
total credit change (%)
Price indices (1985 =100)
Merchandise exportprice index       128.7   136.7    134.3    137.6    123.6    108.3    111.2    113.3    113.7
Merchandise import price index      115.7   116.4   123.0    115.9    102.3    89.2        87.9     96.5    100.3
Merchandisetermsoftrade index       111.2    117.4    109.2    118.7    120.7    121.4   126.4    117.3    113.4
Real exchange rate (US$/LCU) k/      71.5    65.3      65.9    66.2       ...      ...                ...      ...
Real interest rates                   6.6      4.2      6.0      6.2      ...      ...                ...      ...
Consumer price index (% growth)       4.1      6.5      4.7      4.5      8.0      4.0      3.5      3.0      2.5
GDP deflator (% growth)               6.4      4.4      4.6      5.5      9.9      1.9      6.0      2.8       1.2
a. Value-added at factor cost.
b. Includes changes in stocks.
c. "GNFS" denotes goods and nonfactor services.
d. Includes net unrequited transfers.
e. In US$ millions at current prices.
f. Including private and official current transfers, no program support.
g. Including official capital grants, excluding program grants.
h. Includes use of IMF resources.
i. Including current grants.
j. Including net foreign borrowing and capital grants.
k. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$1LCU denotes apprecation.



ANNEX C
FISCAL REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
MAURITANIA
EXTERNAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS & RESOURCES, 19941-2002
(in millions of US$)
1994     1995    1996     1997      1998     1999    2000    2001       2002
Projected
TOTAL REQUIREMENTS'                             275.6    301.6   333.4   311.4    221.1    186.8   228.8   210.6    217.0
CurrentAccountBalance 1/                         78.3    133.5   143.9    103.9    123.3       89.0    100.0    93.9      96.9
Debt Amortization 21                             65.9    80.9      55.2    88.8      89.8     85.4    81.5      77.3      77.9
IMF Repurchases                                   6.0      9.0      9.8      7.4      6.9       9.2     11.3     14.6    17.7
Arrears (incr -)                                  33.2     16.2    65.8    -16.4    -35.3    -39.2       6.5      5.0      5.0
Change, Net Foreign Assets (incr+) 3/             7.3   144.1      77.7     72.8      11.9    24.7      29.5     19.8     19.5
Other 41                                         84.9    -82.0    -18.9     54.9     24.5      17.7      0.0      0.0      0.0
TOTAL RESOURCES                                 275.6   301.6   333.4    311.4   221.1    186.8   228.8    210.6   217.0
Official transfers, net (current & capital)      67.7     62.0    114.5    120.1    108.0    115.4    100.8    99.4       98.9
Prvate capital (net) SI                           7.3    52.8    30.7    96.4         70.4      6.6   -24.1    -11.2      -6.6
Long-term public loan disburs. (gross) 6/        67.8     54.7    27.4    20.7       21.8     24.7      18.8     17.4     18.2
of which: World Bank 7/                        34.6     30.5     35.9     34.2     24.9     19.3     15.8     15.8     15.8
Debt Rescheduling                                58.4     67.8    99.9      33.0       9.2      3.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
UseoflMFResources                                24.3     21.7    20.8      19.6       0.0     10.5    20.0      17.1     17.2
Exceptional Financing 8t                         50.0    42.6    40.1       21.6      11.7     26.6    113.3     87.9     89.3
of which: financing gep                         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    91.4      87.9    89.3
Sources: Maurtanian authorties, and IMF and Bank staff estimates.
11 Excluding official transfers (current and capital).
2/ Scheduled.
3/ Excluding use of Fund resources (net).
4/ Innduding errors & ornissions.
5/ Includes short-term and other capital.
6/ Project loans.
7/ Project and adjustment loans.
8/ Adjustment loans and grants.



ANNEX D
FISCAL REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
MAURITANIA
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
(OPERA TIONS PORTFOLIO)
Closed       31
Projects
Difference Between
Board                                                     Last PSR                                                           Expected and Actual
Date                                               Supervision Rating b/              Original Amount in USS Millions         Disbursements a/
FYsca   Active Projects                        Develoment    m mentaon    IBRD               IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig.    Frm Rev'd
1993     P001872   TECHNICALNOCATIONAL                S                S                  0       12.5          0       5.12        5.58          0
1994     P001864   AGRIC SERVICES                     S                S                  0       18.2          0       3.59        2.89          0
1995     P038661   FIN/PRIV.SCTR.CAPACI               S                S                  0        7.2          0       0.64        1.37        1.37
1995     P001857   GENERAL EDUCATION PR               S                S                  0       35.0          0      14.39       27.37          0
1996     P034106   INFRAST & PILOT DEC.               U                U                  0       14.0          0       7.11        7.93          0
1997     P001875   RAINFED NAT RES MGT                S                S                  0       18.0          0      13.02        1.36          0
1997     P046650   REGIONAL POWER                     S                S                  0       11.1          0       5.86        5.43          0
1998     P035689   HEALTH SECTOR INVEST               S                S                  0       24.0          0      20.31        5.88       2.91
1999     P057875   MINING SECT CAPACITY               S                S                  0       15.0          0      14.44        1.28          0
1999     P055003   NUTRITION (LIL)                    S                U                  0        4.9          0       4.27        0.03          0
1999     P063791   TELECOM POSTAL REFRM              HS                S                  0       10.8          0      10.23        1.89          0
2000     P044711   INTEG DEV PROG FOR I                                                   0       38.1          0      36.55          0           0
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Run on: April 24, 2000



ANNEX E
FISCAL REFORM SUPPORT 0PERATION
SUPPLEMENTARY LOAN CREDIT SHBEET
Timetab)le of Key Project Processing Events
Time taken to prepare project ...... 5 months
Preparation ....................   October 1999
Pre-appraisal ....................     Febtuary 2000
Appraisal ........... ......... April 2000
Negotiations ....................     April 2000
Board Presentation .................... May 2000
Effectiveness Date .................... June 2000
This report is based on the findings of the World Bank mission which visited the Islamic
Republic of Mauritania in February 2000 to assist the Government in the pre-appraisal
of the Fiscal Reform Support Operation (FRSO). Mission members included: Messrs.
Miguel Saponara (Mission Leader, Sr. Economist) , Boileau Loko (Consultant),
Fran9ois Nankobogo (Economist). Mr. Jean Mazurelle (Resident Representative),
Mr. Emmanuel Akpa (Sector manager), Ms. Patricia Alonsc-Gamo (MED, IMF) and
Ms. Valeria Fichera (MED, IMF) joined the discussions with the authorities.
Ms. Atossa ShafaL (Team Assistant) assisted the mission.



ANNEX F
Pamfe 1 of 3
FISCAL REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
POLICY MATRIX AND KEY MONITORING INDICATORS
FISCAL POLICY AND PUBLIC SECTOR REFORMS
1. Consolidated         Strengthen revenue, tax, and * Continue to use the services of a pre-shipment inspection company   1999-2000
government operations  customs administration  * Strengthen the Customs Inspection Unit by installing a database  July 2000
linked to the pre-shipment inspection company
Broaden the tax base    * Eliminate tax exemptions for public enterprises, excluding those for  2000  WB
SNIM's activities relating directly to iron ore extraction
* Prepare to unify the two VAT rates. Conduct study to determine  2000     IMF
which rate to retain.
* Define area of application of VAT exemptions, particularly on  2000      IAF
essential goods
* Apply unified VAT rate                                    Jan. 2001      IMP
* Eliminate special exemptions from VAT                         2000       IMF
* Strengthen management monitoring of large taxpayers by creating  2000    IMP
within the Directorate of Taxation a Corporate Division whose
mandate includes administration, collection, and surveillance
* Inaugurate first phase of reform of direct taxation, as agreed with      WB
the World Bank and the IMF. This calls for:
- gradual reform of the general income tax,                   2000
- gradual reform of the minimum premptive tax and its conversion  2000
into an advance on the business profits tax,
- broadening of the tax base through introduction of a standard tax  Jan. 2001
rate applicable to all small taxpayers.
Strengthen the control and  * Continue to monitor the use of external assistance counterpart  1999
monitoring of expenses   funds, submitting monthly reports to the IMF (in agreement with
the Ministry of Finance) and following established procedures
Improve efficiency of   * Budget counterpart funds for food aid                     1999-2002
expenditure             * Strengthen cost recovery systems in the social sectors    1999-2002       WB
* Provide adequate funds to cover maintenance expenses associated    1999-2002
with existing infiastructure and new investment
* Incorporate counterpart funds and externally financed capital  2000-2002
expenditures in budget presented to the legislature
* Draw up a medium-term expenditure framework for priority      2000       WB
sectors, especially education and health



ANNEX F
Page 2 of3
2                                                      FISCAL REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
POLICY MATRIX AND KEY MONITORING INDICATORS
I!   _      -"           T.,, *i .wmann    * ,omit " "            PI nacrac
2. rublic i uv me.. imp.teprogranuing,   Frula.ea  meP=Pinac=rdance.with adopted inter- and intra-    1999-2002             WB
budgeting, and monitoring    sectoral priorities
of public investment     * Reconcile PIP disbursement data from the Ministry of Economic  1999-2002
Affairs and Development (MAED), the Central Bank and donors
* Make the PIP monitonng unit of MAED operational and provide  1999-2002      EU
quarterly reports to WB/IMF on PIP execution
3. Public administration   Improve the efficiency of   * Limit new recruitment, on a net basis, to the education and health    1999-2002
public services           sectors
Enhance the effectiveness of * Increase civil service salaries in accordance with inflation  2000
the civil service         objectives
* Put into effect the rules and regulations and remuneration system  1999-2000  WB
already formulated as part of civil service reform
Improve transparency of the * Revise the public procurement code in order to streamline  June 2000    WB
procurement process       procedures pertaining to contract award, supervision, and payment
(see Annex 2)



ANNEX F
Page 3 of 3
FISCAL REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
POLICY MATRIX AND KEY MONITORING INDICATORS
REFORM OF CORPORATE AND PERSONAL INCOME TAXES IN MAURITANIE
T_  - 'S                            1 tA                         2001           2002
STRENGTHENING OF GENERAL TAX DIRECTORATE                                  INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL PROFIT TAX (BIC)                40%           40%            35%
(DIRECTION GENtRALE DES IMPOTS)                                           NON-COMMERAL PROFIT TAX (BNC)                             35-    35%                    d
Creation of DGE:                                                                                                               _____
* Creation of DGE (appointment of director and staff, and their assumptio  MINIMUM PRESUMPTIVE TAX (IMF)
of duties)                                                                * FISHERIES                                        2% (50%)       2% (50%b)    2% (75 b)    2% (100%b)
* Creation of a working group to prepare the specifications for th           * OTHER                                           4% (25%")    4% (500b)    4% (759b)    4% (100%")
computerization of the DGE, beginning with the tax recovery function.  TAX ON                                                11 brackets  tntemal
* Development of fiscal management software                                               I  AD A       E                                                              _    _39%  s  
 Provision of new computers to SFE and to the department charged with tax                                                      I I brackets
recovery action                                                       GENERAL INCOME TAX (IGR)                                50/155%     Intemal study    5 brackets
Follow-up on non-payment:                                                TAX ON INCOME FR    CPTAL STOCK
 Strengthening of the recovery mechanism (temporary administrative     T
closures, exclusion from public bidding opportunities, etc.)              * BONDS                                               6%
* Establishment of the AMR for recovery of back taxes subsequent to checks   * OTHERS                                             16%
* Transfer of recovery action to DGI for direct taxes                   APPRENTICESHIP TAX                                      0.6% de la
 Increasing, to I million UM, of the obligatory threshold for signature of  A  I       TA                                    masse salariale
DGI's Director in cases involving legal action                        TAX ON REAL ESTATF INCOME (IRF)                        30% (I0%o)       20%c             C
Strengthening offiscal control:                                                                                                                     .
* Strengthening of resources available to BER and other brigades        FLAT TAX ON PROFITS (BIC FORA4TA1IRE.)                13 brackets     5 brackets   Synthetic taxes
* Distribution of BER's information bulletin                                                                                        ___
Taxpayer registration                                                   EXTENDED LOSS CARRY-OVER (REPOR7 DEFICI7;AIRE ELARGI     3 years        4 years        5 years
* Initiation of an operation to establish fixed whereabouts for registered  AMORTLATION                                           linear       Declining
importers and created of tax files on them                            AMORTIZATION_linear_Declining
LEGLISLATION FISCALE                                                     INVENTORY ACCOUNT                                         FIFO           FIFO
Reform of the VAT                                                         NEW MEASURES                                                         YEAR OF IMPLEMENTA TiON
* Study of elimination of reduced rate                                  REFORM OF VAT (FLAT RATE)
* Taxation of water and electricity provision at normal rate (after study of the    R   O
exemption threshold amount to be applied to households.)              EXPANDED TAX LIABILITY OF INFORMAL SECTOR                                               /
* Introduction of flat rate                                             RFV_ W OF INE                                                                                   _____MPN(
* Review of exemption regimes (SNIM, fisheries, investment code an      REVIEW OF INVESTMENT CODE EXEMPTIONS (IC                                                /
corporate charters)                                                   ANDOTRERS)
* Establishment of a procedure for reimbursement of VAT credits         REVIEW OF VAT EXEMPTIONS (SNIM, FISHERIES,
* Establishment of a procedure within DGI for monitoring exemptions     INVESTMENT CODE AND CORPORATE CHARTERS)                                            __
Reform of IMF                                                            OTHER MEASURES TO BE DETERMINED (E.G., URBAN REAL
* Increase deductibility of IMF to 100%                                 ESTATE REGISTRY)                                        _
Individual income tax                                                     u   Implementation uider the Finance Lu W ul2001     b   Deductible from the RI.
c   Deductible from the gross taxable bas   d    To be fused with the BIC e    Fusion of IGRF and IRF



ANNEX G
Page I of 2
Mauritania at a glance                                                              3/10/00
Sub-
POVERTY ans SOCIAL                                      Saharan      Low-
Mauritania    Africa  Income      Development diamond*
1998
Populaton, mid-year (millions)                      2.5      628    3                     Life expecta icy
GNP per capta (Atlas, method, US$)                 410       480      520
GNP (Atlas mitthod, lIS$ billions)                  1.0      304    1,844
Averagn anual growth, 1992-98
Population t%)                                     2.8       2,6       1.7
Labor force (%,)                                   2,7       2.6       1,9     GNP          7                  Gross
i per   I                        primary
Most recent estimat (latelst year available, 1992-43)                          capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of poputsKion below national povety line)  S0
Urbanpopulatiomn(%oftotalpopulation)                55        33       31
Life expectarwy at bth (years)                      53        51       63
Infant mortalit (per 1,000 live bIrths)             92        91       69
Child malnutrKion (% of children under 5)           48                                  Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)              76        47       74
Illiteracy (% ot population age 15+)                62        42       32
Gross primary enrollment {% of schoolge population)  82       77      108              -  Mauritania
Male                                              85        84      113                  Low-income group
Female                                            79        69      103
KEY ECONOIWiC RATtOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977    1987      1997     1998
Econ1omic ratioaw
GDP (USS bilKions)                        0.62    0.91       1.1      1.00
Gross domeslic invesrtmenltGDP            24.7    28.3      17.7      20.2
Exports of goods anl services/GDP         28.6    49.1      39.2     39.9                     Trade
Gross domeslic savirhgstGDP              -10.8    10.8       8.1       6.3
Gross national savings/GDP                   ..   20.5      19.2      19.1
Current accmnt balance/GOP               -19.7   -14.3       0.5      -3.8   i
Interest payrrentstGl)P                    1.5     3.5       3.2      4.0     Dorrestic                   Investment
Total debt/GIP                            84.2   222.1    224.0    2131        Savings
Totat debt servke/exports                 15,2    23.3      21.5      33.0
Presern value of deVl/GDF                   .                        1424
Present vahlu of debrtexports               ..      ,.        ..   308.9
Indebtedness
1977487  1988-98    1997     1998  19394-3
(average nnualgrolvt)
GDP                               0.3      3.5     3.2       3.2       5.5            -     Mauw/tana
GNP per capita                   -1.0      0.9      0.6      1.3       2.7   |              Low-income group
Fxports of goods ancl services    7.2    -0,6   -18.3        4.8      -7.3   _
STRUCTURE: of the ECONOMY
1977    1987      1997     1998      Growth rates o outputand investment(%)
(% of GDP)
Agricuiture                               29.2    32.3      24.6      24.4   j 30 I
Industry                                  29.8    26.8      29.7      31.2    201
Manufacturing                              ..   12.1        9.9      9.3     1
Services                                  41.0    40.9      45.7      44.4          o
0-0
Private consumption                       54.1    64.7      78.2      79.2   -20 B
General govemment consumption             56.7    24.4      13.8      14.5
Imports of goods and services             64.1    66.6      48.9      53.8             -     GDI    _0GDP
197747  1988-98      1997     1998      G.wth rates of exports and imports (h)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                3.1     4.1       5.1       6.2       50T
Industry                                   3.7     3.0      -5.1      -0.3   | 30 
Manufactuling                              ..    -0.8    -21.9       4.5    20          /
Services                                  -0.2      3.9     11.4       4.3     a         /    /
Privateconsumption                         1.1      5.5      1.0      13.9    .                 as
General govemrment consumption            -8.9    -3.5       0.2      10.5   -20
Gross domestic investment                 14.4      3.8     15.9    -17.5  -|30
Importsofgcodsandsenrices                  3.1      0.5    -11.6      13.7            -     Exports    0    Imports
Gross national product                     1.6      3.8      3.4       4.1
Note: 1998 cata are prelirninary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



ANNEX G
Page 2 of 2
Mauritania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987      1997     1998      Inflation I%)
Domtestic prices 
12
(% change)                                                                    10
Consumer prices                              ..    8.2       4.5      8.0
Implicit GDP deflator                      6.4    10.5       5.5      9.9
Govemment finance                                                              2
(% of GDP, indudes curent grants)                                              n
Current revenue                              ..   25.6      27.0      27.5            93   94   95   96   97   98
Current budget balance                       ,    -0.7      10.4      10.2            -     GDP deflator    a  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                     ..  -13.7        4.2      2.5
TRADE
(US$ millions)                           1977    1987       1997     1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                         ..    401        408      360    so T
Iron                                       ..    133       211      217
Fish                                       ..    268       196       140    487-
Manufactures
Totalimrports (cif)                         ..     383       384      387    324
Food                                      ..  105    92   94  317[[VT 
Fuel and energy                            .'     35       103        81    162
Capitalgoods                               ,,    130        73        71      ol---  _- -_--lL -__  __- L    - 
Export price index (1995=100)                .      85       101       90          92   93  94   95  98  97  9a
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                  ..      94       100       88              r LExports    [imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    ..     90       101      103
BALANCE of PAYMENTS                                                               _
1977    1987      1997     1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(USS millions)
Exports of goods and services              179     447       430      399      2T
mIpots of goods and services              363      606       536      5385 
Pesource balance                          -184    -159      -106     -139          92 93   94  99  96  97  799
Net income                                 -43     -78       -52      -40   14
Net current transfers                      105     107       163      141            |
Current account balance                   -122    -130         6      -38   |
Financingitems(net)                         72     112        55       57   -is1.-
Changes in net reserves                     50      18       -61      -19        T
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)      51      ..       204      207
Conversion rate (DEC, locaVUS$)           45.6    73.9    151.9    189.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987      1997     1998
(US$ miltions)                                                                 Composition oftotal debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       523   2,020     2,456    2,130
IBRD                                      0       91         6        3
IDA                                      24      126       373      398                 324   3       398
Total debt service                          28     107       106      152
IBRD                                      0       12         2        2   [        2
IDA                                       0        1         5        6             7 /o1
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                           ,,      66       156
Official creditors                       38      102        27      -47                                    249
Private creditors                        29       -7         0       -2
Foreign direct investment                  ..      2        -3        0              1028-
Portfolio equity                          ..
World Bank program                                                             A - IBRO                    E - Biatera
Comrnitmerts                              4       43        29       19      B- - IDA    D Other mutilateral  F - Private
Disbursements                             6       49        34       25   |C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Principal repayments                      0        6         4        5
Net flows                                 6       42        30       20   1
Interest payments                         0        6         3        3
Net transfers                             6       36        27       17
Development Economics                                                                                          3/10/00



ANNEX H
Page 1 of 9
FISCAL REFORM SUPPORI OPERATIFON
GOVERNMENT LETTER OF DESVELOPMENT POLICY
(Translation)
Islamic Republic of .Mauritania
Honor - Fraternity - Justice
Ministry of Economic Affairs
and Development
Nouakchott, February 29, 2000
FROM:   The Minister
TO:
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President of the World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 2)433
RE: Letter of Development Policy concerning the
Fiscal Reform Support Project
Dear Sir,
1.    As paxt of my Government's frank and fruitful clialogue with its development partners --
particularly as this relates to the design of structural and sector adjustment programs -- I would
like to preseni: our main policies regarding the reform of direct taxation and describe for you the
strategy and action program that we intend to implement in this area over the 2000-2002 period.
2.    Before considering the main components of this policy, we feel that it should be placed in
the broader context of the overall economy.
I.    MACtOECONOMIC POLICY FRAMEWORK
Recent developments, 1993-1998
3.    Over the 1993-98 period, real economic growth was gradually restored, with annual
growth of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) averaging 4.9%. For 1999, estimates based on
indicators of economic activity put real GDP growth at 4.3%.



ANNEX H
Page 2 of 9
Price increases have been held within tolerable limits. In fact, despite the monetary adjustment
that occurred in 1998, the annual inflation rate was only 6.2% between 1993 and 1998. The 1999
inflation rate is projected to be 4%.
As for public finances, the fiscal balance, which had been negative in 1993 due to the heavy
budgetary cost of a bank restructuring operation carried out in that year, went into surplus and
reached 2.1% of GDP in 1998. This result reflected mainly the Government's commitment to
sterilizing a sizeable share of fishing royalties due under the fishing agreement with the European
Union (EU).
Where external trade is concerned, great strides have been made towards shrinking the external
current account deficit (excluding official transfers) which was held to 11.4% of GDP in 1998.
Official reserves improved significantly, arnounting in 1998 to 4.6 months' worth of imports of
goods and non-factor services, compared with 1.1 months of coverage in 1993.
4.    Along with the macroeconomic adjustment policies, the Mauritanian authorities have
pursued a stronger program of structural reform. Thus, in the area of economic management,
important steps have been taken to improve resource mobilization and to increase the efficiency
of public expenditures. This involves, in particular: (i) the introduction of the Value Added Tax
(VAT) and of taxpayer identification numbers, in 1995 and 1996, respectively; (ii) tariff reforn,
which has made it possible to reduce the maximum combined rate of import duties; (iii) the
strengthening of fiscal administration; (iv) the introduction of a system of tax credits for projects
financed with external resources; and (v) the adoption of a new budgetary nomenclature.
5.    As regards trade and exchange, structural reform has progressed on several fronts.
Trade liberalization has continued with the abolition of mandatory repatriation of export receipts
for non-mining products and the liberalization of imports in late 1997. The system of licenses
has been abolished. In addition, restrictions applicable to external transactions have been
eliminated, the exchange rate unified and important measures taken to improve the functioning of
the foreign exchange market.
6.    Regarding the private sector, the Government's strategy has emphasized continuation of
the economic liberalization begun in 1986, in order to increase this sector's participation in
economy activity and strengthen the role of market forces. These efforts have essentially
involved : (i) the introduction of a broad program of privatization with the goal of reducing factor
costs ; (ii) improvement of the legislative and regulatory framework in which the economy
operates; (iii) fiscal reform and the elimination of fiscal distortions ; and (iv) reform of the
financial system in order to increase its efficiency and enlarge the channels of financial
intermediation. In addition, important steps have been implemented to further the process of
decentralization and encourage the emergence of local development partners, by involving the
population in the design of projects and in economic and social reforms.
7.    In order to put the financial system on more solid footing, the Government has divested
its share in all commercial banks and has privatized the state-owned insurance company.



ANNEX H
Page 3 of 9
Prudential regulations have been adopted in order to boost the private sector's confidence in the
banks and to expand the channels of financial intermediation. The supervisory capabilities of the
Banque Centrale de M[auritanie have been strengthened and control procedures improved. With
the introduction of treasury notes and the creation of an inter-bank. market, the Central Bank has
directed its efforts tomwards the indirect management of liquidity instruments.
8.   In the public enterprise sector, the Government's efforts have centered on: (i) the
reform of the legal and institutional framework; (ii) the financial restructuring of the national
mining company SNIM and of the water and electricity company SONELEC. A wide range of
public enterprises and services have also been privatized; this will affect Air M/[auritania, the
Office of Post and Telecommunications (OPT) and the electricity assets of SONELEC.
9.   In order to promote the development of the rural sector, the Government has
developed, wilth the help of its development partners, a global development strategy that aims to
diversify agricultural production and increase the sector's efficiency. This strategy emphasizes:
(i) liberalization of the rice sector; (ii) implementation of an Integrated Development Program for
Irrigated Agriculture in Mauritania ; and (iii) the adoption of a mutualist credit system, as well as
enhanced access to, this system for small farmers.
10.   Within the fisheries sector, the Government has devised a development strategy with the
following objectives: (i) optimal structuring and management of ithe resource base; (ii) better
integration of this sect;or into the nation's economy ; (ii) strengthening of the institutional
capacities of the relevant ministries; and (iv) safeguarding the resource base, the environment
and maritime safety. The various measures included in this strategy will allow for gradual
recovery of the sector, which would once again experience a posilive real growth rate leading to
an improvement in the country's position vis-a-vis external markets and an increase in revenues.
11.  In the area of institutional capacities and governance, the Government has embarked
upon a substanltial program to modernize public administration. The first phase of this program
involved the main economic and financial ministries: Economic Affairs and Development
(MAED), Finance (MF), Fisheries and Maritime Economy (MPEM), Mining and Industry
(MMI) and Trade, Crafts and Tourism (MCAT). At the same time, public administration has
been strengthened through a policy of dynamic in-service training. In addition, a round table
devoted to the sub'ject of civil service reform has already taken place. Important measures have
also been taken to strengthen the institutional framework within which the Public Investment
Program (PIP' is dravm up, increase the country's absoiptive capacity and improve the efficacy
of public investments.
Social policies
12.   Social development and poverty reduction have always been an integral part of the
Government's reform program. During the 1992-98 peiiod, despite fiscal constraints, the
Government increased expenditures in the social sectors and in poverty alleviation programs,



ANNEX H
Page 4 of 9
while managing, at the same time to improve the quality and efficacy of those expenditures.
Thanks to these efforts, the incidence of poverty fell from 57% in 1990 to 50% in 1996.
13.   Within the education sector, the Government has undertaken significant reforms to
improve the educational system and increase its efficiency. With the support of three IDA-
financed education projects, the Government has expanded access to basic education, trained
more teachers and improved curricula. These reforms have produced encouraging results in the
sector. Between 1990 and 1997, total gross primary enrollment rose from 46% to 86% and from
40% to 84% for girls; secondary school enrollment increased by 56%, with girls accounting for
41% of the total. Over the same period, the number of pupils in technical education more than
doubled, from 800 to 1,680, with girls representing about one third of the total, and the number
of students at the University of Nouakchott increased by 71%, of which 13.2 % are young
women. This effort was supported by an increase in education expenditures, which went from
4.2% of GDP in 1990 to 4.9% in 1998.
14.  In the areas of health, population and nutrition, the Government has been
implementing a health policy, adopted in 1991 and updated in 1998. At the same time, a
population policy has been developed. The main objectives of the health policy have been:
(i) the promotion of primary health services (especially preventive services and health posts);
(ii) the development of prevention activities; (iii) the decentralization of the decision-making
process; (iv) the establishment of a cost recovery mechanism for medicines and services; and
(v) the strengthening of the role of private health services and NGOs.
15.   The Government's objective in the area of poverty alleviation is to reduce poverty by
boosting the level of economic growth and by channeling public expenditures towards priority
social sectors. In this context, a National Poverty Alleviation Program has been implemented,
with the goal of lifting as many Mauritanians as possible over the poverty threshold. Labor-
intensive works have been initiated and credit mechanisms put into place to foster the
development of micro-enterprises. In addition, important and high-priority poverty alleviation
programs have begun, particularly in the agriculture, fisheries and urban services sectors. One
should also note the significant support being given to food security. Finally, a Strategic Poverty
Alleviation Framework for the 2000-2015 period is under preparation.
Economic Objectives, 1999-2002
16.   Over the 1999-2002 period, the easing of constraints weighing on the Mauritanian
economy will essentially depend on the enforcement of rigorous monetary and budgetary policies
and on accelerated reform in the key sectors in order to achieve satisfactory performance in
economic growth, competitiveness and improved standards of living.
17.   The Government's medium-term objective is to put the economy on the road to
sustainable and more rapid growth, with a view to increasing the number of jobs created,
reducing poverty and making the country a viable player on external markets.



ANNEX H
Page 5 of 9
18.   The main macro-economic objectives, as enunciated in the Policy Framework Paper the
1999-2002 period, are the following: (i) achieving an average rate of real economic growth of
4.5% per year; (ii) maintaining an adequate budgetary surplus; (iii) reducing the external current
accounts deficit (exclusive of official transfers) from 11.4% of GDP in 1998 to 10.1% by 2002;
(iii) increasing official foreign exchange reserves to brirng them up to the equivalent of 6 months'
worth of imports of goods and services; and (iv) bringing the inflation rate dowvn to 2.5% by
2002.
19.  In order to do this, the Government's efforts will focus on deepening and accelerating
structural reform, in order to stimulate private investmenit, especially in sectors other than
mining, and overall factor productivity, and on the implementation of a program of social
development, especially in the areas of education, health and poverty reduction.
20.   In this context, the Government has already begum tariff reform, which has brought the
cumulative weight of import duties down to 20% as of January 2000. In order to appreciate the
scope of the effort undertaken in the area of customs duties, it is important to realize that the
highest combined rate prior to the reform was about 150% and that most imports bore a
cumulative duty oifat least 50%. The impact of reform cn customns receipts is undoubtedly
considerable: the gross loss of customs revenue, assuming that reform does not bring about any
change in the volume or composition of imports, and based on the value of these imports in
1997, has been estimaLted at about 35%..
21.   Regarding economic management and institutional development, the Government's
objectives have to do with improving governance, managing public expenditures and
strengthening the Adrninistration's capacity to define atnd implement policies ithat are in keeping
with the counl;ry's new environment.
22.   In this connection, the Government plans to implement a set of cohereint reforms covering
resource mobilization, public expenditure management, governance and the modernization of
fiscal administration. The main reforms are presented in the matrix appended to this letter.
II.   FISCAL REFORM PROGRAM
23.   Regarding direct taxation, the Government is aware that its role must evolve rapidly as
the economy becomes more liberal, and recognizes that wise economic management and solid
institutions will be viltal in helping it to fully assume its role of catalyzing economic growth,
through continued structural reform and improved economic regulation.
24.   Analytical studies of our fiscal system have poinited up certain distortions that have often
caused resource mobilization to fall far short of the fiscal potential and public expenditure
objectives in the social sectors. Poor tax yields and difFiculties w4ith resource mobilization are
specifically linkedL to the following factors: (i) the high level of fiscal pressure in comparison to
neighboring countries; (ii) the narrowness of the tax base within ihe formal economy (about 450



ANNEX H
Page 6 of 9
enterprises are bearing most of the tax burden); (iii) a complicated and cumbersome tax regime;
and (iv) administrative weaknesses at the level of control and recovery.
25.   Mauritania's financial policy will therefore endeavor to strengthen the Government's
budgetary position, in such a way as to allow adequate resources to be allocated to priority social
sectors and to investments. In order to achieve this, it will be necessary to increase budgetary
inflows through better resource mobilization, which in turn involves: (i) the creation of large and
elastic sources of revenue with lowered fiscal pressure, thanks to the enlargement and
diversification of the tax base; (ii) improvement in the "recovery" function and in the quality of
intemal administrative controls; (iii) unification of the VAT along with improvements in its
management, elimination of all exemptions and its consolidation into a single consumer tax;
(iv) reform of direct taxation, which should evolve towards a fiscal regime in harmony with that
of neighboring countries; (v) the implementation of an appropriate program for reexamining tax
exemptions granted under the investment code and under specific agreements; and
(vi) unification of the statistical tax rate.
Ill.   MEASURES ENVISAGED
26.   The Government's aim is to create a balanced and equitable fiscal system by improving
the performance of the tax administration and by introducing simpler and more-appropriate
procedures. In this connection, the measures envisaged, especially regarding the minimum
presumptive tax (imp6t minimum fairfaitaire, IMF), the corporate profit tax (BIC) and the regime
of tax withholdings, have been the object of studies and simulations, always with an eye to
improving private sector incentives while simultaneously preserving an adequate level of tax
revenue. On the basis of a recently completed study done in collaboration with the World Bamk
and Intemational Monetary Fund, the Government has decided to implement an action plan for
the reform of direct taxation (see matrix appended to this document.)
A.   STRENGTHENING FISCAL ADMINISTRATION
27.   Fiscal administration. The Government has implemented the following reforns to
strengthen the General Tax Directorate (Direction Generale des Imp6ts, DGI):
-  creation of a Direction des Grandes Entreprises (DGE - Large Enterprise Directorate) to be
endowed with adequate human and material resources. A working group has been created to
draw up specifications for the computerization of this entity.
-  Follow-up to non-payment of taxes: strengthening of the mechanisms for recovering taxes
due (temporary administrative closures, exclusion from public bidding contracts, etc.);
establishment of the AMR for the recovery of back taxes subsequent to spot checks; transfer
of recovery action to the DGI for direct taxes and an increase, up to 1 million UM, in the
threshold amount requiring the signature of DGI's Director for cases involving legal action.
- Improvement of fiscal controls: strengthening of the resources available to the BER and other
fiscal control brigades; and establishment by BER of an information bulletin.



ANNEX H
Page 7 of 9
-   Taxpayer r egistration: launching of an effort to identify a fixed base of operations for
registered importers who do not already have one, and the establishment of tax files on such
importers.
-   Reform of the VAT: launching of a study on eliminating the tax break on water and
electricity provision (after a study of the threshold exemption level to be applied to
households); introduction of the flat rate; re-examination of exemption regimes (SNIM,
fisheries, investment code and business charters); establishment of a procedure for
reimbursirng VAT credits and of a mechanism for monitoring exemptions.
-   Tax regime for small taxpayers: simplification of the tax code for individuals.
B.   REFORM OF DIRECT TAXATION
28.    Corporate tax. The Government will undertake a progressive reform of this tax in order
to improve the environment for private investment. This reform will include the measures
outlined below, in accordance with the agreed-upon calendar:
Tax struture  Tax strwuture  Tax structure
__Tae  __                                  2000       in 200 1     in 2002
Industrial and cornmercial tax (tax on profits, or BIC)     40%          35%
Non-commercial tax (BNC)                                    35%            d
Minimum presumptive tax (IMF)
Fisheries                                            20/.(50(/%b)   20/0(75%1))  20/0(100% b)
Other                                                40/0(50%b)   40/0(75%1b)  4/(l 00% b)
Tax on cornpensation and salaries (ITS)                 Internal study 5 tax brackets
General income tax                                      Internal study 5 tax brackets
Tax on income from iloating capital
Bonds
Other
Apprenticeship tax
Tax on real estate: income (IRF)                            20%            e
Flat tax on profits (BlCforfaitaire)                    5 tax brackets Synthetic iax
Extended lost carry-over (report deficitaire elargi)       4 years      5 years
Amortization                                             Regressive
Inventory account                                           FIFO
Newv measures                   _Tax structure  Tax 2tr01cre  Ta structure
N~~W measures ~~~~~in  M                     20       in02
Reform of 'VAT (flat rate)                                                X
Expanded tax liability of informal sector                                 X
Review of ][nvestment Code exemptions (BIC and others)                    X
Review of regime of VAT exemptions (SNIM, fisheries,                      X
Investment Code and business charters)
Other measures to be determined (e.g., urban real estate registry)        X
a: implementation in the context of the Finance Law of 2001;  : deduictible from BIC;
c: deductible from gross taxable base;  d: to be fused with BIC;    e: fusion of IGRF and IRF.
29.    Personal income tax. The Government will simplify the application of schedular taxes
and will gradually expand the mechanisms for withholdcing at the source, so as to improve
taxation of hard-to-tax activities and eliminate the risk of double taxation. The collection of the
tax on salaries (ITS) will be improved by simplifying the tax base and by reducing the number of



ANNEX H
Page 8 of 9
income brackets from 11 to 5. The necessary steps will also be taken to ensure that the amounts
withheld at the source by public enterprises and private companies are transferred each month to
the Treasury. The Government will study the option of indirectly taxing fringe benefits by not
allowing businesses to use them as tax deductions.
30.   Tariff reform. The Government has decided to deepen its reform program by adding a
fourth phase involving a reduction of customs duties, in order to harmonize its regime with that
of other countries in the sub-region. In this connection, the maximum rate (all tariff regimes
combined) has been reduced to 20% under the Finance Law of 2000. As has been the case in the
past, merchandize checks will continue, eventually covering all imports.
31.   The Government is also planning a study of the marginal effective tax rate, in order to
assess the impact of taxation on investments and to better compare Mauritania's competitiveness
with that of its neighbors.
Management of public expenditures
32.   On the basis of conclusions emerging from various public expenditure reviews in 1991
and 1995, important reforms have been put in place. The Government is committed to
consolidating progress already made and to further improvement in the management and efficacy
of public expenditures. In the context of the Policy Paper on Poverty Alleviation (CSLP), the
main programmed interventions will be the following:
(a)   Preparation of a sliding triennial public expenditure program (Programme
triennal glissant de depenses publiques, PTDP) that coheres with the macroeconomic
framework and with the strategies and priorities defined in the CSLP.
(b)   Preparation of a sliding triennial program of priority public investment
(Programme prioritaire d 'investisssement public triennal glissant (PPIP), which would
be the concrete expression of sectoral strategies and inter- and intra-sectoral priorities.
The investment programs will be carefully reviewed by the Technical Support Committee
(comite technique d'appui) within the Interministerial Committee for Economic and
Social Policy Monitoring (comite interministeriel de suivi des politiques &conomiques et
sociales). Investments with a cost equal to or exceeding 5 million US dollars will be
subject to in-depth evaluation. In addition, project monitoring will be reinforced.
(c)   Further reductions in subsidies and transfers to public enterprises, and
strengthening of debt management. The transparency and efficiency of public finance
management will continue to be improved.
33.   Regarding poverty alleviation, the Government will allocate public expenditures,
according to their priority and with the agreement of the World Bank and International Monetary
Fund, to programs serving this objective, as these may be defined in the CSLP now under
preparation.



ANNEX H
Page 9 of 9
Governance
34.   Given the political and economic reforms begun by the Government, governance should
gain in efficiency thanks to improvements in transparency, reliability of data and the rule of law.
In order to achieve this, the plan is to improve the production and issuance of economic data, to
strengthen controls and the transparency of the Government's financial operations and to ensure
the circulation of infonmation, in order to create conditions conducive to an effective partnership
between the Government and the private sector. It should be pointed out in this connection that a
forum has been established for consultation between the Government and private sector
professional organizations. This dynamic will be strengthened and further developed.
Modernizationi of the Administration
35.   The Government is aware that implementation of the FiscEl Reform Support Project
requires close coordination between the various departments involved, and particularly the
economic and financial ministries. Therefore, all necessary measures have been planned to
monitor its implelnentation and to ensure a satisfactory :Follow-up to its results.
Respectfully yours,
Signed
Mohamed Ould Nany                          Aly Gueladio Camara
Minister of Economic Affairs                    Minister of Finance
and IDevelopment



