Report No. 1461a-AL
Appraisal of a Second                                                           FlE    PY
Highway Project Algeria
April 1, 1977
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Midcile East and North Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 1976)
Currency Unit           =   Algerian Dinar (DA)
US$0.25                 =   DA 1
US$1                    =   DA 4.05
US$246,914              =   DA 1 million
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric System                     British/US System
1 meter (m)                  =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)             =   0.62 miles (mi)   2
1 sq kilometer (km )         =   0.386 sq miles (mi )
1 liter (1)                  =   0.2200 imperial gallons (igal)
=   0.2642 U.S. gallons (gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)         =   2,205 pounds
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS lf
ADT       -  Average Daily Traffic
CVO       -  Chemin Vicinal Ordinaire
'CW       -  Chemin de Wilaya
DI        -  Directorate for Infrastructure
DNC-ANP   -  Direction Nationale des Coopératives de l'Arnmée Nationale
Populaire
GNP       -  Gross National Product
LNG       -  Liquefied Natural Gas
LNTPB     -  National Laboratory for Public Works and Buildings
LPG       -  Liquefied Petroleum Gas
MIE       -  Ministry of Industry and Energy
MPWC      -  Ministry of Public Works and Construction
MT        -  Ministry of Transport
ONP       -  Office National des Ports
RN        -  Route Nationale
SETI      -  Service d'Etudes et des Travaux d'Infrastructure
SNTF      -  Société Nationale des Transports Ferroviaires
SNTR      -  Société Nationale des Transports Routiers
SNTV      -  Société Nationale des Transports de Voyageurs
UNDP      -  United Nations Development Programme
Democratic and Popular Government of Algeria
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
1/ Acronyms and organization names relate to French titles of
organizations as used in Algeria



APPRAISAL OF                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
ALGERIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...............................                     i
I.    INTRODUCTION  ..........................................
II.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ..................................
A.    Effects of Geography and Economic Growth
on Transport  ...................................
B.    The Transport System .............................
C.    Transport Policy, Planning, and Coordination .....                      3
D.    Previous Projects ................................                      4
III.    THE HIGHWAYS ..........................................                        5
A. The Network ........                                                       5
B.  Traffic ..........................                                        5
C.    Administration  ...................................                     6
D.  Planning .........................                                        7
E.  Financing ........................                                        8
F.  Engineering .......................                                       8
G.    Construction .....................................                      9
H.  Maintenance .......................                                       9
I.    Training  .........................................                    10
IV.    THE PROJECT ...........................................                      10
A.    Objectives  ............   .        ...........................        10
B.    Description ......................................                     10
C.    Engineering  ......................................                    12
D.    Cost Estimates  ...................................                    12
E.    Financing              ........................................        14
F.    Implementation ......            .............................         14
G. Disbursements                       . . . .......  15
H.    Environmental Impact .....             ........................        15
V.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION ....................................                     16
A.    Main Benefits and Beneficiaries  ...................                   16
B.    Economic Evaluation ...............................                    17
C.    Other Project Elements  ............................                   18
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                   ..................   18
This report was prepared by Messrs. H.L. Beenhakker (Economist) and
B.H. Van Waes (Engineer).
This document hu a rutrictd distribution and may bc und by rociphnts only in the performance
of their oflclu dutie. lu contnu may not oherwie bc disclond wihout World Bank authorization.



TABLES
1.   Summary of Road, Railway, Port and Civil Aviation Traffic
Statistics (1970-75)
2.   Planned versus Implemented Transport Investments (1970-76)
3.   Crude Oil, Condensates, LPG and Natural Gas Transported
by Pipeline (1961-74)
4.   Revenue from Road Users (1972-76)
5.   Classified Road Network
6.   Vehicle Fleet (1965-75)
7.   Fuel Consumption by Road Transport (1969-75)
8.   Expenditures and Sources of Finance on National and Regional Roads
9.   Average Maintenance Expenditures per km (1972-75)
10.   Design Characteristics of Project Road Sections
11.   Project Cost Estimates
12.   Cost Estimates Including All Contingencies for Consulting Services
and Training
13.   Estimated Maintenance Costs without and with Project
14.  Results of Sensitivity Testing
15.   Average Daily Traffic on Project Road Sections
16.   Average Vehicle Operating Costs
17.   Average Characteristics of Typical Vehicles
ANNEXES
1.   Transportation Projects Previously Financed by the Bank
2.   Description of Project Road
3.   Project Implementation Schedule
4.   Schedule of Cumulative Disbursements
5.   Project Road - Zone of Influence
CHARTS
IBRD-16911 - Algeria - Organization of the Ministry of Public Works
and Construction
IBRD-16909 - Algeria - Organization of a Provincial Directorate for
Infrastructure and Land Use
MAPS
IBRD 12657 - Algeria - Transportation Infrastructure
IBRD 12658 - Algeria - Zone of Influence of Project Road



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
ALGERIA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for the construction of the
Boudouaou-Lakhdaria section (40 km) of the main national road linking
Algiers to the eastern part of the country and for consulting services
and staff training at an estimated total cost of US$101.6 million equiv-
alent. The proposed Bank loan for the project would be US$41.5 million,
which represents the foreign exchange cost.
ii.       The development of the road network has not kept pace with the
rapid growth of road transport in recent years.  Heavy traffic volumes on
roads with inadequate design standards have resulted in high road transport
costs, unacceptable levels of traffic congestion and a heavy accident toll.
The Government is aware of the need for adequate roads if growth of the total
economy is not to be impeded. It intends to raise road investments, real-
izing that shortages of qualified and experienced staff will have to be
remedied and that organizational improvements may have to be made to ensure
the proper execution of an expanding investment program.
iii.      The proposed project would assist the Government in this endeavor
as did the First Highway Loan signed in June 1973. Construction of the
Boudouaou-Lakhdaria road is a major investment project of high priority which
was prepared under the First Highway Project. The project road is an impor-
tant section of the interregional connection between Algiers, the capital,
and the Tizi Ouzou and Constantine areas, which are important population,
industrial and commercial centers (Map IBRD 12657). It also constitutes an
integral part of a major program to upgrade this interregional connection,
since its improvement works are already being carried out west and-east
of the project road.
iv.       The existing road has poor geometrical standards, and would be in-
adequate to carry the expected traffic efficiently. Average daily traffic
on the road amounts already to over 10,000 vehicles on the section near
Boudouaou and to 4,500 vehicles on the mountainous section near Lakhdaria.
Without the proposed project road, realization of the full production poten-
tial of new plants being built or to be built in the area would be impeded.
The proposed project would replace the existing road: (a) from Boudouaou
to its intersection with National Road 12 near Thenia (20 km) with a modern
divided four-lane highway with climbing lanes as well as bypasses for Boudouaou
and Thenia; and (b) from the intersection with National Road 12 to Lakhdaria
(20 km) with a modern two-lane highway with passing and climbing lanes.



- ji -
v.        0ngoing studies financed under the First Highway Project have
already led to an improved collection of data pertinent to road investment
planning. The planning capabilities of the Ministry of Public Works and
Construction (MPWC) are, however, still limited due to a shortage of qual-
ified and experienced staff.  The proposed consulting services are to assist
the MPWC with the implementation of recommendations of the aforementioned
studies while training in the form of fellowships with public agencies and
related industries abroad would enhance staff capabilities.
vi.       Procurement of civil works would be in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines on international competitive bidding and consulting services would
be procured in a manner acceptable to the Bank. The civil works are likely
to attract the participation of both local and foreign contractors.
vii.      The proposed project was appraised in December 1976.  Only savings
in transport costs have been quantified as project benefits, since it was
impossible to evaluate in detail to what extent future production within the
area would be affected, with and without the project. These savings are
estimated to yield an economic return of 20% and a first-year benefit ratio
of 9.5%, indicating the works to be well justified and appropriately timed.
viii.     The principal and direct beneficiaries of the proposed works would
be enterprises in public road transport and in other economic sectors, and
private passenger car owners. Benefits accruing to the public road transport
enterprises are expected to be passed on gradually to their users.
ix.       On the above basis the proposed project would be suitable for a
Bank loan of US$41.5 million equivalent to the Government, for a term of
17 years, including a grace period of 3-1/2 years. The balance of finance
would be provided by the Government.



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND IIIGHWIAY PROJECT
ALGERIA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
has asked the Bank to help finance: (i) the construction of the Boudouaou-
Lakhdaria section (40 km) of the road from Algiers to Constantine; (ii)
technical assistance to supervise construction and to improve road network
planning and road maintenance; and (iii) the training of personnel of the
Ministry of Public Works and Construction (HIPWC) and national construction
companies.
1.02      The total project cost is estimated at US$101.6 million with a
foreign exchange cost of US$41.5 million. The proposed loan amount would
be US$41.5 million.
1.03      This report has been prepared on the basis of information pro-
vided by the Algerian authorities and their consultants, and on the find-
ings of an appraisal mission comprising Messrs. H.L. Beenhakker (economist)
and B. H. Van lWaes (engineer), which visited Algeria during December 1976.
TI. THE TRAtiSPORT SECTOR
A. Effects of Geography and Economic Growth on Transport
2.01      Algeria has an area of about 2.4 million sq. km.  Its population
of about 15.7 million is growing at an annual rate of 3.2%. The country 's
geography has largely influenced the shape of the transport system. The
northern region, with about 20% of the land area and 90% of the total pop-
ulation, comprises the narrow but fertile coastal strip as well as the
semi-arid valleys and rugged mountains of the Atlas chain. The southern
region includes the vast desert that is part of the Saharan tableland.
The transport system is relatively well developed in the northern region,
whereas many areas in the desert are inaccessible. Construction of new
land routes is difficult and costly in most of the country because of ex-
tensive mountain and desert areas. The development of the road network
has not kept pace with the rapid growth of road transport denand.
B. The Transport System
2.02      In 1976, Algeria's transport system consisted of approximately
78,700 km of national, regional, and local roads serving about 350,000
motor vehicles; 4,000 km of railways; 6 major ports and one national



- 2 -
shipping company; 4 international and J0 secondary airports and one
national airline; and about 6,000 km of gas and oil pipelines. The road
and rail networks connect all major Algerian cities and regions, and also
connect Algeria with Tunisia and Morocco.
2.03      The 1975 per capita Gross National Product (GINP) was about US$780.
During 1970-75 GNP and per capita incorne in constant prices increased by 4.6%
and 1.4% per annum, respectively. During the same period, average annual
growth rates for total freight traffic in ton-km, and total passenger traffic
in pass-km, by road and rail, were 11.7% and 16.2%, respectively (Table 1).
2.04      In volume and in growth road traffic exceeds significantly rail-
way traffic. In terms of ton-km and pass-km road traffic in 1975 was
about 2.4 times and 5.6 times, respectively, railway traffic. Growth in
ton-km and pass-km for railway traffic increased at an average rate of 4%
and 2% per annum, respectively; the comparable rates for road traffic
amounted to 16% and 20% per annum, respectively. The distribution of
traffic between road and rail is mainly left to market conditions with the
railways concentrating on bulk commodities carried over long distances.
Nearly half of the railway freight consists of ore and phosphates.
2.05      During the past seven years, the Governnent has given first
priority to industrial development. Transport investment (Table 2) dur-
ing the first (1970-73) and ongoing (1974-77) Four-Year Development Plans,
were approximately only 3% and 5%, respectively, of total investments made.
Most transport investments have been for improving and maintaining existing
infrastructure and vehicle fleets, while port capacity is being expanded
principally to accommodate rising exports of petroleum products and imports.
2.06      The Government is aware that development of the transport sector
during 1970-76 has not kept pace with the country's overall economic growth
and intends to give higher priority to transport investments in future
development plans. Following is a brief description of the present situa-
tion of the various modes. Traffic on a number of national roads is
approaching a saturation level, while their design standards are inadequate
(para. 3.03). Railroad services need to be improved and expanded. Future
port capacity should be sufficient with the ongoing construction of the
port of Bethioua and the planned construction of the port of Jijel. The
Compagnie Nationale Algerienne de Navigation (sea transport) and Air Algerie
(air transport) have recently expanded their fleets to accommodate traffic
in the next few years. Expansion of airport capacity does not appear to
be an immediate problem. Upon the completion of another pipeline for the
transport of condensates and LPG between ilassi R'tIel and Arzew in 1978,
the total annual capacity for the transport of these products and crude
oil from the Sahara to the Mediterranean coast will be 100 million tons,
which seerms adequate for the next decade. The annual capacity for the
evacuation of natural gas is planned to increase significantly to accom-
inodate the rapid growth of production (Table 3).



- 3 -
C. Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
2.07      Except for a few private truckers, practically all transport is
handled by public agencies. Public transport agencies are under the gen-
eral administration of the Ministry of Transport (MT), while various
industrial enterprises under the general administration of the l4inistry
of Industry and Energy (MIE) operate their oun trucks. The Ministry of
Public Works and Construction (MPWC) is responsible for the planning,
preparation and execution of infrastructure works in highways, ports and
airports. Public road transport is entrusted to the Societe Nationale
des TransportsRoutiers (SNTR) for freight and to the Societe Nationale
des Transports de Voyageurs (SNTV) for passenger traffic; they are semi-
independent enterprises under the IIT.
2.08      The Government also exercises considerable influence over the
development and operations of the transport sector through its general in-
vestment policies and regulations. These policies are, however, not always
clearly stated and investment planning is not yet based on comprehensive
technical and economic analyses. The regulations are not always adjusted
promptly to meet current requirements while coordination between Govern-
ment departments and agencies should be improved. One of the principal
reasons for this situation is a shortage of qualified and experienced
personnel.
2.09      Having a major interest in freight transport (para. 3.07), the
HIIE has commissioned a domestic Transport Study, which is being carried
out by Wilbur Smith and Associates (USA) and is scheduled for completion
in mid-1977. Upon the MIE's request, the Bank is providing assistance in
reviewing the study. Also, the Bank is providing consulting services
under its previous loans to assist the authorities in roads and ports
planning.
2.10      The allocation of traffic between road and rail transport is
governed by fares and rates, which are largely controlled by the Govern-
ment. The distribution of traffic between road and rail transport seems
reasonable considering that 90% of the railways traffic consists of long
distance bulk cargo. The allocation of road traffic between different
operators is governed by stringent regulations as explained below. These
regulations coupled with restrictions on imports of vehicles, impede
somewhat the provision of an ample and flexible supply of road transport
services. These issues are, therefore, being reviewed under the above
Transport Study.
2.11      The Governnent has assigned the principle role in road freight
to SNTR.  However, transport regulations permit, under certain conditions,
the use of trucks belonging to an own-account fleet as a complement to
the services provided by SNTR (para. 2.07). But any operator of own-
account truck(s) must reserve 75% of its goods movements (in m tons) over
land for haulage by the SNTR or the Societe Nationale des Transports
Ferroviaires (SNTF).  For public establishments such as national con-
panies and agricultural collectives under ministerial tutelage, this



- 4 -
isowor:x. to 50%. end for certain other classes of own-account
operators, such as military, the quota does not apply at all.  These per-
centages, w.-Lch are riot based on socio-economic principles, are being
analyzed in the above Transport Study (para. 2.09).
2.12      Transport regulations authorize private trucks to offer for-hire
transport without restriction only within the urban trucking zones. For
road hauls between non-connecting zones, the owner of a truck with a weight
and loading capacity equal to or less than 5.5 m tons, may offer its ser-
vices for-hire if it is the only vehicle of the owner and is duly registered
in a commune. Otherwise, for-hire road transport by private truck is pos-
sible only as an affiliate of SNTR, subject to strict control by MT.
2.13      SNTV provides all intercity and some urban bus services for pas-
sengers. Urban bus services are also provided by city governments. Private
taxi drivers are allowed to operate within and between cities.
2.14      Statistics on road user charges (Table 4) indicate that revenues
are about 4 times expenditures (para 3.15). Users pay fuel and vehicle taxes,
and import duties on vehicles and parts. Studies regarding appropriate road
user charges and rules for intercity traffic are being carried out by consul-
tants financed under the First Highway Project.
2.15      The main instruments of development policy have been a Three-
Year Program (1967-69) and since 1970 the Four-Year Development Plans, as
well as the recurrent and investment budgets. The 1976 Budget Law provides
that the Treasury may grant long-term loans for both capital investments
and working capital of public enterprises. Capital investments are also
financed by foreign sources and a portion of the profits of these enter-
prises (para. ..04). The law removes the obligation formerly placed on
public enterprises to deposit their depreciation provisions and all profits
in the Treasury.
2.16      The Ministry of Planning is responsible for preparing the Develop-
ment Plans; the MT drafts a plan for the transport sector based on proposals
by all modes. With respect to roads, the investment proposals are prepared
by the MPWC. ln the 1970-73 and 1974-77 Four-Year Plans, low priority was
accorded to development of new transport infrastructure and emphasis was
on investment in road transport vehicles, railways' rolling stock and re-
habilitation of existing roads and railway track (para. 2.05).
D. Previous Projects
2.17      The project would be the fourth for the transport sector as a
whole and the second for Highways. Total current Bank lending for the
transport sector amounts to US$137.5 million, including US$18.5 million
for the First Highway Project. Completion of the First Highway Project
is scheduled for the end of 1977, while the port and railway projects are
scheduled for completion in 1978 and 1979, respectively. Project execution
has been generally satisfactory. Brief details of the transport projects
financed with Bank assistance are in Annex 1.



- 5 -
III. THE HIGHWAYS
A. The Network
3.01      The classified road network consists of about 78,700 km of
national (Routes Nationales), regional (Chemins de Wilaya), and local
(Chemins Vicinaux Ordinaires) roads (Table 5). In addition, an unclassi-
fied network of feeder roads and desert tracks exists, but its length has
not yet been measured.
3.02      Three major routes run parallel to the coastline between Morocco
and Tunisia, and another three run north-south from the coast towards the
Sahara (Map IBRD 12657). The Trans-Sahara road from Algiers to Tamanrasset
(1,900 km) will, upon its completion in 1978, be the only paved road cross-
ing the Sahara desert. The feasibility of connecting Tamanrasset with Mali,
Niger, and eventually Nigeria is being discussed by the countries involved.
3.03      About 46% of the classified network is paved, with asphaltic
concrete on the most heavily-trafficked roads and surface treatment on those
with less traffic. As a result of the rapidly growing traffic, the design
standards of many national and regional roads are becoming insufficient to
meet modern traffic requirements; most have narrow carriageways, inadequate
sight distances and sinuous alignments, especially in the mountainous areas.
Therefore, the main thrust of the road development effort is to upgrade high
priority sections of the existing network.
B. Traffic
3.04      Available data indicate that the total vehicle fleet in use was
approximately 168,700 in 1965 and 350,000 in 1975 (Table 6), which represents
an average annual growth rate of 7.5%. In 1975 there was one vehicle per 45
inhabitants in Algeria, which is somewhat low compared to other countries
with about the same per capita income.  This is probably due to import control
of vehicles, particularly passenger cars, to limit foreign exchange expendi-
tures. The Transport Study mentioned in para. 2.09 is expected to examine
whether the vehicle fleet is adequate or should be allowed to expand more
rapidly.
3.05      The MIE controls the vehicle fleet by limiting imports and through
the assembly of trucks and buses in Rouiba. Its aim is to maintain an average
vehicle life of eight to ten years. Additional assembly capacity is planned
in Oran (passenger cars), Tiaret (trucks), Setif and Rouiba (small trucks).
The assembly plants are managed by the state enterprise Societe Nlationale de



- 6-
Constructions Mecaniques (SONACOME) and supervised by the MIE.  There is a
widespread overloading of small trucks (5.5 mi tons), although overloading
is not yet a problem with the large trucks. Consequently, the single axle
load limit of 13 m tons is observed. During loan negotiations assurances were
obtained from the Government that it wili continue to ensure that dimensions
and axle loads of vehicles using the roads shall not exceed the road design
limits.
3.06      Most of the traffic is concentrated in the coastal area where
national roads carry an average daily traffic (ADT) of more than 1,250
vehicles (about 25% over 5 m tons).  Traffic volumes are particularly high
(ADT between 4,000 and 18,000 vehicles) near Algiers, the industrial areas
of Oran and Arzew and the Constantine-Skikda-Annaba triangle. Current and
ongoing industrial development together with past growth rates of vehicle
fleet and fuel consumption (Table 7) indicate that road traffic may grow at
an average annual rate of about 9% over the next ten years, compared to about
8% during 1970-75.
3.07      About 60% of total road freight in 1975 was attributable to seven
large national companies involved in petroleum exploitation, mining, grains
and like products, construction materials and metal industries. About 40%
of this tonnage was shipped in their own trucks, 30% by SNTR and 30% in
trucks owned by other entities.
3.08      SNTR's vehicle fleet grew from a total capacity of 18,000 m tons
in 1971 to 36,000 m tons in 1976. SNTV's fleet, mainly buses for inter-city
and urban services, increased from about 1,100 vehicles in 1971 to about
3,000 in 1976; therefore, SNTR and SUTV are now in a better position to meet
the demand.
C. Administration
3.09      The MPWC (para. 2.07) bas overall responsibility for:  -(i) the road
network, ports and airfields through its Directorate for Infrastructure
(DI); (ii) public buildings and housing through its Directorate for Construc-
tion and llousing; (iii) urban development through its Directorate for Plan-
ning and Urban Development; and (iv) the national construction companies
through its Directorate for General Technical Affairs (Chart IBRD 16911).
In the field 31 provincial directorates (Chart IBRD 16909), organizationally
under the provincial governments and headed by Chief Engineers, have similar
multiple responsibilities. In particular they carry out construction and
maintenance works of national and regional roads, and provide technical
assistance to local authorities for constructing and maintaining local roads.
In addition they administer and supervise urban development, housing, public
buildings, and construction and maintenance works of airfields and agrarian
collectives. Each provincial directorate supervises about three subdirectorates,



- 7 -
each headed by an engineer with similar multiple responsibilities; with
respect to roads they supervise construction and rehabilitation works, carry
out maintenance works and prepare small projects.
3.10      This organizational setup was appropriate so long as the volume of
road construction and other civil works was relatively modest. In recent
years this volume has increased significantly, as evidenced by the budget
for national road improvements which increased from US$9.5 million in 1971
to US$38 million in 1976. The Government is aware of this issue and is,
therefore, considering organizational improvements such as separation of
responsibilities within the provincial directorates located in areas with
roads carrying heavy traffic volumes (para. 3.06). This step is likely to
improve overall efficiency.
D. Planning
3.11      Road investment proposals are prepared by the MPWC and coordinated
with the plans for other modes by the MT and with the other sectors by the
Mlinistry of Planning (para. 2.16). The Government attaches high priority
to the construction and improvements of the main east-west routes between
Oran, Algiers, Constantine and Annaba as well as the main north-south routes
Skikda-Touggourt, Algiers-Laghouat, and Oran-Bechar.
3.12      DI's Office for Infrastructure Projects (SETI) is responsible for
the planning, feasibility and design of highway, port and airport projects,
but lacks sufficient staff to adequately carry out these functions. To
improve SETI's capabilities the First Highway Project provided consulting
services to assist in the preparation of road feasibility studies, a mainte-
nance program, and a twenty-year road development plan (Annex 1). Since
SETI's staffing situation will remain a problem for some time, additional
assistance from consultants is recommended under the proposed project to
assist in the implementation of recommendations of these studies.
3.13      To improve road planning the MPWC has already instituted systematic
data collection, but further improvements are desirable. During loan negotia-
tions assurances were obtained from the Government that it will continue to
make financial and administrative means available to improve the road planning
process.
3.14      The road development plan (para. 3.12) is still under preparation.
The absence of such a plan as well as the shortage of qualified staff in
the MPWC are the principal reasons that a sector-lending approach by the
Bank at this stage would not be appropriate.



-8-
E. Financing
3.15      Overall expenditures for road improvements amounted in 1975 to
about 50% sf total expenditures on national and regional roads (US$36
million equivalent), with the remaining 50% allocated for road maintenance.
Total expenditures for national and regional roads have increased steadily
over the last decade (Table 8). However, inflation eroded a substantial
portion of the increased outlay and in real terms the expenditures on
national and regional roads did not keep pace with the rapid growth of road
traffic (para. 3.06).
3.16      Finance for road construction, improvement, and maintenance has
come from the central, provincial, and local government budgets. The only
other source was the First Highway Project which provided US$6 million for
a modest program of urgent improvement works and US$3.7 for the purchase of
inaintenance vehicles (Annex 1). No special fund exists 4hi-Lch allocates money
directly for roads. The central government provides all funds for the national
roads and 80% of the funds for regional roads. Provincial governments finance
the balance for regional roads, while local governments finance the full cost
of all local roads. Local governments can, however, obtain funds from the
central government when deteriorated local roads require substantial recon-
struction. As a result, many local governments postpone maintenance of local
roads until substantial reconstruction is needed. The Government is aware
of this practice and plans to correct this situation (para. 3.10).
F. Engineering
3.17      SETI is responsible for preparing feasibility and engineering studies
of major roads (para. 3.12). The provincial directorates (para. 3.09) prepare
small projects with the assistance of SETI, as required. Highway design stand-
ards are satisfactory.
3.18      The National Laboratory for Public Works and Buildings (LNTPB) is
charged with soil investigations and material tests for civil works and build-
ings. Its effectiveness has improved with the technical assistance and
laboratory equipment provided under the First Highway Project. It can now
adequately conduct soil and material tests.



- 9 -
G. Construction
3.19      Road construction and improvement works are normally awarded to
contractors by means of unit price contracts. The domestic contracting in-
dustry consists of three large state enterprises, viz. the National Company
for Road Works (SONATRO), the Company for Maintenance of Roads and Airports
(SERA) and the Direction Nationale des Cooperatives de l'Armee Nationale
Populaire (DNC-ANP), and various smaller private and public construction
firms. A number of foreign firms, some in joint venture with local firms,
also operate in Algeria.
3.20      Organizationally, the public construction firms operate under
ministerial supervision, but they are financially independent, organized
like private contractors without privileges, and compete in bidding with
private firms. Participation in bidding for locally financed small projects
is frequently limited to the domestic contracting industry. The Government
applies international competitive bidding for large projects and projects
financed by the Bank. No large road projects have been implemented in
recent years, except for the Trans-Sahara road which is being built by the
DNC-ANP. International competitive bidding, according to Bank's guidelines
forprocurement will be applied to the proposed project road.
3.21      The Government is aware that compared to neighboring countries the
cost of road improvement and construction works is relatively high and is
analyzing the reasons for these high costs. As a first step it has recently
encouraged the formation of joint ventures of foreign and domestic construc-
tion firms to improve efficiency and reduce construction costs. The Govern-
ment intends also to undertake a comprehensive study of the domestic con-
struction industry's efficiency and has expressed interest in advice from
the Bank in defining and organizing this study.
H. Maintenance
3.22      Routine maintenance of national and regional roads is carried out
by the provincial subdirectorates under the supervision of their provincial
directorates (para. 3.09). Resealing of bituminous pavement and major re-
habilitation works are carried out by contractors. Average road maintenance
expenditures per km vary significantly accordingly to terrain. Table 9 shows,
for instance, that the 1975 averages of the lowest and highest expenditures
per km for national roads were about US$909 and US$3,160 equivalent, respec-
tively. The MPWIC is waiting for the results of ongoing studies (para. 3.12)
to improve operational efficiency which, if not achieved would require an
increase in the maintenance budget to raise maintenance standards (para.
3.15); in particular for secondary and tertiary roads (para. 3.16).



- 10 -
3.23      During loan negotiations assurances were obtained that the Govern-
ment will make available promptly as needed the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the adequate maintenance of the road network.
I.  Traîninng
3.24      Although the Government has launched a major educational program,
the shortage of qualified personnel is expected to continue, at least until
the early 1980's when an adequate number of graduates will be available
from various Algerian colleges and universities. To further help the MPWC
with respect to its need for qualified staff, the proposed project would
include on-the-job training and fellowships with public agencies and re-
lated industries abroad. At the technician level, equipment operators are
trained or take refresher courses at the Central Equipment Division of the
DI and construction supervisors are trained at MPWC's Institute of Technology.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01      The proposed project supports the Government's objective to develop
the road network to meet the transport requirements. As explained in Chapters
Il and III, this will require a greater investment effort than in the past few
years as well as organizational, planning, staffing and other improvements to
strengthen the capabilities of the MPWC. The First Highway Loan by the Bank
in FY 1974 addressed itself to these problems by financing a modest program of
high priority improvements of the existing network and an extensive program
of technical assistance to the MPWC for project preparation and road network
planning.
4.02      The proposed project is a 'ogical sequence to the First Highway
Project. It would assist in the financing of a relatively large investment
in the construction of a high priority road for which the analyses and design
were prepared under the First Highway Project. Furthermore, it would support
the training of personnel and provide technical assistance to the MPWC in
implementing the recommendations of studies financed under the First Highway
Project.
B. Description
4.03      The proposed project would comprise:
(i) the construction of a new Boudouaou-Lakhdaria road
(40 km) (Map IBRD 12658);



- il -
(ii) consulting services to assist the MPWC in construction
supervision and in implementing the recommendations of
ongoing maintenance, user charges and road planning
studies; and
(iii) training of staff of the MPWC and the national
construction companies.
Road Construction
4.04      The project road is an important section of the interregional
connection between Algiers, the capital, and the Tizi Ouzou and Constantine
areas, which are important population, industrial and commercial centers (Map
IBRD 12657). The existing road can only accommodate present traffic at low
service levels, although improvements have been made over the years to attempt
to meet increasing traffic demands. The deficiencies are: inadequate number
of lanes, sections with narrow pavements (5.5 m) and shoulders, sharp curves,
substandard sight distances, steep grades, occasional flooding of a critical
section, and unrestricted roadside development in urban and peri-urban areas.
4.05      The proposed construction would replace:  (i) the existing two-lane
road between Boudouaou and the intersection with National Road 12 in the
neighborhood of Thenia (20 km) with a modern divided four-lane highway with
climbing lanes and bypasses for the rapidly growing towns of Boudouaou and
Thenia; and (ii) the remaining 20 km of the existing road to Lakhdaria with
a modern two-lane highway with passing and climbing lanes.
4.06      Construction works on the road eas. of the project road between
the intersection with National Road 12 and Tizi Ouzou are presently underway,
thereby ensuring the free flow of traffic from the project road.  Similarly,
at the western end of the project road a new four-lane divided road to Algiers
and vicinities is under construction. Thus the project road would be an
integral part of an improvement program for the route from Algiers to the
Tizi Ouzou and Constantine areas.
4.07      At present all traffic passes through the towns of Boudouaou and
Thenia causing heavy congestion. Increasing the capacity of these through
roads would require major right-of-way acquisitions and cause major disrup-
tions in the city areas. Bypasses for the towns of Boudouaou and Thenia are,
therefore, provided in the project. The capacity of the road through Lakhdaria
is sufficient for present and near future traffic. However, either an increase
in the capacity of this through road, or a bypass of Lakhdaria, will have to
be considered before congestion conditions are reached possibly during the
late 1980's.
4.08      Detailed feasibility and design studies were undertaken by consul-
tants (Ingeroute, France) under the First Highway Project. Several alter-
natives were considered to arrive at an optimal solution. The proposed
construction of the section between the intersection with National Road 12
and Lakhdaria is part of a stage construction concept towards an eventual
four-lane facility. Details are given in Annex 2.



- 12 -
Consulting Services
4.09      The proposed project would provide:
(i)  about 48 man-months of consulting services, over a
period of three years, to assist the MPWC in super-
vision of the Boudouaou-Lakhdaria road construction
works;
(ii)  about 72 man-months of consulting services over a period
of two Vears, to assist the MIPWC in on-the-job training
of maintenance personnel in three or four maintenance
centers; and
(iii) about 24 man-months of consulting services, over a
period of one year, to assist SETI in implementing
the recommendations of ongoing maintenance, user
charges and road planning studies.
UNDP financing is not available for any of the above consulting services. The
services mentioned in (ii) and (iii) are to assist in the implem-entation of
the recommendations of studies financed under the First Highway Project and
dealing primarily with the formulation of recommendations for road maintenance
and development programs.
T raining
4.10      The proposed project would also provide fellowships to train en-
gineers of the MPWC and national construction companies, with public agencies
and related industries abroad. The training would be for about 150 man-months
in total and about two months per engineer over a period of two years. During
loan negotiations the Government agreed to submit details of this training
program to the Bank for approval. The implementation of the program is ex-
pected to commence in October 1977 (Annex 3).
C. Engineering
4.11      Engineering  was carried out by consultants (Ingeroute, France)
under the First Highway Project according to the design characteristics
of Table 10, which are satisfactory.
D. Cost Estimates
4.12      The estimated costs of the project are as follows; details are
in Tables Il and 12.



- 13 -
Estimated Costs /1
Foreign
DA Million                US$ Million -       Exchange
/3                        /3
Project Component    Local`-Forei_n  Total   LocalP-Foreign  Total   Component
A. Civil Works /4    174.6   121.0   295.6    43.1    29.8    72.9
Contingencies
- Physical (10%)   17.5    12.1    29.6        4.4      3.0      7.4
- Price Escal-
ation (23%)       44.7    30.9    75.6    11.0        7.7    18.7
- Right-of-Uay       3.5       -       3.5     0.9       -       0.9
Subtotal         240.3   164.0   404.3    59.4    40.5    99.9         41
B. Consulting
Services and
Training /5          2.8      4.2      7.0     0.7      1.0      1.7     59
Total            243.1   168.2   411.3    60.1    41.5   101.6         41
/1   Excluding the cost of final design and construction supervision
carried out by the Government.
/2   DA = US$4.05.
/3   Including about 20% taxes.
/4   Construction estimates are as of December 1, 1976.  Escalation
assumed at 9% for 1977, 9% each year for 1978-79, and 8% for
1980 is the same for both local and foreign costs, and accords
with CPS Guidelines.
/5   Including all contingencies.
4.13      Construction cost estimates are based on quantities from detailed
engineering and unit prices based on a survey of 1975-76 unit prices sup-
plemented by a detailed price analysis of the main construction items.
These cost estimates are acceptable. The cost estimates for consulting
services and training are based on estimated man-month and related rates
pertaining to end 1976. The average man-months rate including all costs
for overheads and fees for consulting services is about US$7,000.
4.14      Based on a detailed analysis of the main construction items, a
10% physical contingency has  been included to allow for unforeseen
quantity increases in the road construction works. This percentage has
also been applied to consulting services and training. Price escalation
has been calculated using annual rates of 9% for 1977, 9% for 1978-79,
and 8% for 1980, and has been assumed to be the same for both local and
foreign costs. These escalation percentages accord with CPS Guidelines.



- 14 -
4.15      Based on the most likely blend of foreign and local participation,
the foreign exchange cost of the road construction works is estimated at
US$40.5 million or 41% of total construction costs. The foreign exchange
cost of the consulting services and training is estimated at US$1.0 million,
or 59% of their total cost. During loan negotiations, all cost estimates
were discussed and agreed with the Government.
E. Financing
4.16      The proposed loan of US$41.5 million would be made to the Govern-
ment, which would provide the balance of US$60.1 million, or 59% of the
total cost, and would also finance any cost overruns if they were to occur.
During loan negotiations, assurances to this effect were obtained from the
Government.
F. Implementation
4.17      The MJPWC would be responsible for project implementation.  Con-
struction supervision would normally be carried out by the Provincial
Directorates for Infrastructure and Land Use of Boudouaou and Lakhdaria.
In view of the importance of the project, construction supervision could,
however, be carried out by the M1PWC through its DI or SETI, assisted by
consultants to be provided under the project. During loan negotiations the
Governient agreed to set up prior to the start of construction works a single
organization responsible for the supervision of the entire works.
Procurement
4.18      Construction contracts based on unit prices would be awarded after
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines
for Procurement". Works have been broken down into lots to encourage parti-
cipation in bidding from local and foreign bidders. Bidders would be allowed
to bid for one lot, a combination of lots, or for the entire works, according
to their prequalification status (para. 4.20). These lots and contract award
procedures, including procedures acceptable to the Bank for comparing bids
from private and national construction companies, were discussed and agreed
with the Government. Assurances were obtained from the Government that
consulting services would be provided by qualified and experienced consultants,
according to conditions and Terms of Reference, all satisfactory to the Bank.
Right-of-Way Acquisition
4.19      A legal procedure exists for the timely acquisition of right-of-way.
As most of the project road is located in agricultural land, no major diffi-
culties are foreseen. During loan negotiations assurances were obtained from
the Government that it will make available all right-of-way as needed for the
timely implementation of the project.



- 15 -
Project Implementation Schedule
4.20      A project implementation schedule is shown in Annex 3.  Pre-
qualification of bidders has partly taken place before loan negotiations.
Construction works are expected to start in mid-1978 and to be completed by
mid-1981. Consulting services for supervision would take place during the
construction period and other consulting services from early 1978 to early
1980. The training program for personnel of the tIPWC and national construc-
tion companies would take place from end 1977 to end 1979. The project
implementation schedule was discussed and agreed with the Government during
loan negotiations.
G. Disbursements
4.21      Disbursements would be made on the basis of:
(i)  41% of the cost of the construction works for the
Boudouaou-Lakhdaria road, representing the estimated
foreign exchange cost;
(ii)  the actual foreign exchange cost of the consulting
services; and
(iii)  the actual foreign exchange cost of staff training.
Any surplus remaining in the loan account on completion of the project
should be cancelled.
4.22      Based on the loan becoming effective by October 1977, a schedule
of cumulative disbursements has been estimated and is shown in Annex 4. This
schedule was discussed and agreed with the Government during loan negotiations.
H. Environmental Impact
4.23      The planned bypasses for the towns of Boudouaou and Thenia will
relieve urban areas from traffic congestion, noise and air pollution. The
project road would not involve relocation of people or businesses. The
bypasses are located in agricultural areas and access to agricultural land on
both sides of the bypasses as well as along the rest of the project road is
made possible by the maximum use of remaining sections of existing roads and
by underpasses and overpasses provided in the project.



- 16 -
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.01      The project road is an important section of the interregional
connection between Algiers, the capital, with a population of about 1.5
million, and Constantine and Annaba, with populations of 500,000 and 360,000,
respectively (Map IBRD 12658). These cities are important economic centers
close to major ports.  Benefits would accrue mainly to long distance traffic,
which represents about 90% of total traffic. The proposed road construction
would, therefore, serve a large population and promote the economic and social
integration of these important regions. Two bypass sections would enable
through traffic to avoid the towns of Boudouaou and Thenia, with a combined
population of about 90,000.
5.02      The road construction is important for the transport of industrial
products produced in the neighborhood of Algiers, Blida, Rouiba and Reghaia
(Annex 5). Other important commodities that would be affected by the project
road are processed agricultural commodities, bottled beverages, and fuels.
In addition, realization of the full production of ongoing and proposed indus-
trial projects in the road's zone of influence (Annex 5) could be impeded in
the absence of the proposed road construction.
5.03      The Boudouaou-Lakhdaria road represents a section of Algeria's
road network most in need of construction. As indicated in para. 4.04 its
capacity is insufficient and its geometrical standards are poor for present
traffic. Transportation costs on this road are high and are bound to rise as
traffic increases. Serious congestion problems would arise in the mid-1980's.
The proposed road construction would reduce vehicle operating costs, journey
times and accidents, and increase travel comfort, while the proposed con-
sulting services and training would alleviate problems due to a shortage of
qualified staff (para. 5.12).
5.04      Most of the benefits from the proposed road construction would
accrue, in the first instance, to the state trucking and bus companies,
and to industrial state enterprises in other sectors of the economy (para.
2.07). Any resulting increase in their profits would, in order of priority,
be used for their investment plans, bonuses to their workers, and deposits
into the Treasury. Since the tariffs of the state trucking and bus companies
relate to distance, vehicle operating costs and journey times, it is expected
that benefits from reduced vehicle operating costs would gradually accrue to
the users of these road transport services. Since a large portion of the
passenger car fleet is for official use, the corresponding benefits would also
accrue to the Government, while private car owners would benefit directly from
the proposed construction works.



- 17 -
B. Economic Evaluation
5.05      The economic evaluation is based on costs of construction and
maintenance (Table 13) and quantifiable benefits resulting from savings
in vehicle operating, time and congestion costs. This understates the
benefits since they do not include potential benefits from the full re-
alization of industrial projects (para. 5.02), reduction in accidents and
increased comfort of travel.
5.06      Since it is difficult to determine precisely the values of time
for working and commuting trips, they have, for passenger cars, been esti-
mated at only 50% and 25%, respectively, of the average hourly earnings
of DA 3.28 (US$0.81). Time savings of passengers travelling for private
and tourist purposes, who represent about 20% of total passenger car
traffic, have not been taken into account. Time savings for light trucks
and heavy vehicles are included in the vehicle operating costs of these
vehicles.
5.07      Based on the most probable estimates of costs, quantifiable
benefits, base year traffic and traffic growth, the proposed investment
in the Boudouaou-Lakhdaria road, would yield an economic return (ER) of
20%. Sensitivity analyses testing the ER for a 25% investment cost in-
crease, a reduction of 25% of total benefits, and a 10% investment cost
increase combined with a 10% reduction in total benefits, show that the
ER remains acceptable under these unfavorable assumptions (Table 14).
All ER's would be about 10% lower if working and commuting time savings
were not considered. The construction works would yield a first-year 
return of 9.5%, indicating the works to be appropriately timed.
5.08      The possible effect of the recommended construction works on
railway transportation between Algiers and Constantine has been examined.
The road construction is not expected to divert traffic from the railways
which specialize in long distance bulk cargo.
5.09      For analytical purposes as well as for subsequent design and
execution, the project road was divided into several sections to take into
account differences in the composition and volume of traffic, terrain, and
construction costs. Moreover, to determine the optimal solution, (para.
4.05) the feasibility study examined several construction alternatives,
including the merits of stage construction to four-lane standards, the
construction on a new alignment of a direct road between Boudouaou and
Lakhdaria, as well as the construction at this time of only part of the
road and postponement of the other (Annex 2). With respect to the last
issue, construction of only a part of the road would result in an unaccept-
able solution because the benefits to be had from the road sections are
highly interdependent and eliminating one section would reduce the benefits
from the other sections below acceptable levels.
5.10      The 1976 traffic analyses indicate that ADT's on the proposed
project road sections range from 4,400 to 10,500 (Table 15). Traffic fore-
casts per type of vehicle are based on past traffic growth, origin and



- 18 -
destination studies, observed seasonal variations, gasoline and diesel con-
sumption, and expected growth of: (i) vehicle fleet for passenger cars;
and (ii) GNP for light and heavy vehicles. Estimated traffic growth during
1976-80 and 1981-2000 on the project road is approximately 13% and 7% per
annum, respectively (Table 15). These growth rates might be exceeded if most
of the proposed industrial projects in the region are realized. About 15% of
the forecast traffic represents generated traffic.
5.11      The average unit saving in vehicle operating costs and costs of
congestion in the early years after completion of the construction works is
approximately 20%. This percentage is expected to increase to about 50% in
1991 since serious congestion problems would occur if the project road would
not be built. Table 16 shows the operating costs for different vehicle types;
they are based on the average characteristics of the typical vehicles indicated
in Table 17.
C. Other Project Elements
5.12      Benefits from consulting services (para. 4.09) and training (para.
4.10) have not been quantified. The consulting services would provide on-the-
job training, assistance in the implementation of recommendations of studies
financed under the First Highway Project, and help in the planning and organi-
zation of the supervision of the proposed construction works. These services
and the provision of fellowships with public agencies and related industries
abroad (para. 4.10) are expected to improve project preparation and execution,
road maintenance and construction planning and organizational efficiency.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following prin-
cipal issues:
(i)  prior to the start of construction works, the Government
will set up a single organization responsible for the
supervision of the entire works (para 4.17); and
(ii)  the Government will use procedures acceptable to the Bank
to compare bids from private and national construction
companies (para 4.18).
6.02      Agreement having been reached on the principal issues the project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$41.5 million to the Government of
the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria for a 17-year term including
a 3-1/2 year grace period.
April 1977



TABLEJTABLEAU 1
Page 1 of 2
APPRAISAL OF                                                                              EVALUATION D'UN
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                     DEUXIEME PROJET ROUTIER
ALGERIA                                                                                      ALGERIE
Summary of Road, Railway, Port and Civil Aviation Traffic Statistics
Résumé des statistiques de trafic routier, de chemins de fer, portuaire et aérien
(1970-75)
Road Traffic/T.aîic routier                                                 Railway Traffic/Trafic de chemiîsde fer
Freight/Marchandises   Passenger/Voyageurs                  Freight/M rchandises   Passeoger/Vo a eurs
Year/Année           milliorston-km           milliorspass-km   Year/Année        millicre ton-km         millior pass-km
1970                 1,936                    2,510              1970             1,380                    1,013
1971                 2,331                    3,316              1971             1,335                    1,097
1972                 2,764                    4,067              1972             1,499                    1,016
1973                 3,443                    4,146              1973             1,582                      944
19,4                 3,530                    5,400              1974             1,905                   1,057
1975                 4,068                    6,324              1975             1,716                   1,129
% Average Annual Growth Rate/                                     % Average Annual Growth Rate/
Period/Période    .% Taux noyen de croissance annuelle            Period/Fériode    % Taux moyen de croissance annuelle
1970-75                  16                        20             1970-75              4                        2
Port Traffic/Trafic ptrtuaire
Algiers             Annaba                 Arzew               Bejaia               Jijel
Year/Année   Imports   Exports   Imports   Exports   Imports   Exports   Impgrts   Exports  Imports   Exports
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -'000 m tons - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1970      4,209      2,200      1,132      2,331        198    21,551        359      16,684      2          5
1971      2,777      1,830      1,253      2,284        300    18,114        399      13,330    20           6
1972      2,408      2,139      1,464      2,635      2,333    19,275        425      12,136    32           3
1973      2,697      1,865      1,802      2,256        171    19,141        583       9,804    62           5
1974      2,685      1,605      2,014      3,532        149    21,090        902       9,775   129           4
1975      2,830      1,339      2,031      2,068      2,282    21,569        916      10,240   150           3
7Average Annual Growth Rate/
Period/Période                                       %Taux moyen de croissance annuelle
1970-75        -8         -10        12         -3         60       0             20       -10    200        -10
Mostaganem              Oran                Skikda              Others V        Total/Total
Year/Année   Imports   Exports   Imports   Exports   Imports  Exports  Imports   Exorts  Imports   Exports
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --'000 m tons - - - - - - - - - - - -
1970          174       376    1,075          785        680       78        10        210    7,839   44,220
1971          205       188    1,124          367        646   `  729         7        172    6,731   37,020
1972          198       272    1,318          385        783    6,547        51        170    9,0I2   43,562
1973          293       286    1,385          593        645   11,917       114        399    7,734   46,266
1974          401       221    1,906          433        981    7,878       278        320    9,415   44,858
1975          578       213    2,098          307     1,268    7,030        440        155   12,593   42,924
% Average Annual Growth Rate/
Period/Période                                      E Taux moyen de croissance aunuelle
1970-75           27       -12       14          -21         13      300       140        -11       10        -1
1/ Beni Saf, Ghazaouet and Tenes/Beni Saf, Ghazaouet et Tenes



TABLE/TABLEAU 1
Page 2 of 2
C,ivil Aviation Traffic/Trafic aérien
Algiers                                          Oran
Year/Année    Freight/Marchandises  Passenger/VoyageuLrs   Freight/Marchandises   Passenger/Voyageurs
millions ton-km         rillions pass-km        millions ton-km         millions pass-km
1970               5,877                  915                    538                       151
1971               6,448                  987                    495                       172
1972              10,447                1,067                    700                       222
1973               8,004                1,290                    884                       300
1974               8,003                1,500                    926                       370
1975              14,650                1,800                  1,884                       471
% Average Annual Growth Rate!
Period/Période                                    % Taux noyen de croissance annuelle
1970-75                  20                  15                     29                        26
Constantine                                        Annaba
Year/Année    Freight/Marchandises   Passenger/Voy,gR,,rs   Freight/Marchandises   Passe nger/Voyageur-s
millions ton-km          millions pass-L         millions ton-km          millions pass-klu
1970                    85                  110                    141                       107
1971                     58                 139                    170                       121
1972                   214                  165                    316                       148
1973                   552                  232                    313                       191
1974                   850                  297                    647                       221
1975                 1,109                  354                    n.a. 1]                   267
Period/Période                                        % Average Annual Growth Rate/
%ZO Taux moyen de crcissance annuelle
1970-75
67                  26                     38                        20
Other Airports/Autres aérodromes                          Total/Total
Year/Année      Freight/Marchandises  Passenger/Voyageurs   Freight/Marchandises   Passenger/Voyageurs
millions ton-km       millions pass-km          millions ton-km         millions pass- -n
1970                      335                 240                  6,976                     1,524
1971                      265                 260                  7,436                     1,679
1972                      275                 275                 11,952                     1,877
1973                      433                 327                 10,186                     2,340
1974                      612                 388                 11,038                     2,776
1975                      n.a.                n.a.                17,643                     2,900
% Average Annual Growth Rate/
Period/Période                                   % Taux moyen de croissance annuelle
1970-75                      13                  10                     21                         14
1/ Not available/Non disponible
Source:   Ministry of Transport/Ministère des transports
April/Avril 1977



TABLE/TABLEAU 2
APPRAISAL OF                                                                                       EVALUATION D'UN
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                             DEUXIEME PROJET ROUTIER
ALGERIA                                                                                              ALGERIE
Planned versus Implemented Transport Investments (1970-76)
Prévisions et réalisations des Investissements de transport (1970-76)
(millions DA)
First Four-Year Development Plan
Premier plan ouadriénnal de développement
Description               1970                    1971                    1972                  1973              Description
Planned  Implemented  Planned  Implemented  Planned  Implemented Planned  Implemented
Prévu     Réalisé      Prévu      Réalisé      Prévu      Réalisé    Prévu    Réalisé
National Roads       69.0      64.4         90.0      84.9          73.0      129.6       117.0    198.7          Routes nationales
Rail RoadH          n.a, 5/    0.7          90.7      15.0         110.0       83.5       150.0    148.8          Cheminsde fer
Ports              130.0       69.8        130.0    142.9          150.0      151.5       120.0    146.5          Ports
Airports             23.0      16.5         25.0      21.2          22.0       24.4         22.0     17.0         Aérodromes
SNTV -              n.a.       n.a.         n.a.      n.a.          25.0       12.3        34.0      25.7         SNTV 1/
SNTR -/             n.a.       32.5         38.5      35.4          36.3        8.9        64.6      47.3         SNTR -/
3/                                                                                                                3/
Air Algérie          n.a.      50.5         52.1      22.2          11.5       26.8         61.5     76.5         Air Algérie 3
CNAN 4/             n.a.       S4.9         91.0    116.7           90.2      173.6       101.7    152.8          CNAN 4/
Total            n.a.       n.a.         n.a.      n.a.         51R.0      610.6       670.8    813.3
Second Four-Year Development Plan Through September 30, 1976
Deuxième plan quadriennal de developpement jusqu'au 30 septembre 1976
Description             __1974                         1975                           1976                        Description
Planned  Implemented         Planned   Implemented          Planned   Implemented
Prévu     Réalisé            Prévu       Réalisé            Prévu       Réalisé
National Roads      n.a.       184.8              n.a.        217.6             n.a.         200.0                Routes nationales
Rail Roads         161.4       157.5             366.0        217.4            578.9        152.1                 Chemins de fer
Ports               D.a.        47.0              n.a.        165.9             n.a.         152.3                Ports
Airports            n.a.        17.4              n.a.         23.3             n.a.          19.0                Aérodromes
SNTV -/             77.0        n.a.            120.0          42.2            443.0        137.6                 SNTV
SNTR 2/            105.0        82.1             172.6         94.6             71.4          32.6                 SNTR  /
Air Algérie 3/    120.0         98.6             119.8         99.5            125.0          47.1                 Air Algér-e  /
CNAN -             231.1        97.7             430.0        349.4            793.0         298.3                CNAN 4
Total            n.a.        n.a.             n.a.      1,209.9              n.a.      1,039.0
1/ Société nationale des transports de voyageurs
2/ Société nationale des transports routiers
3/ Including its Subsidiary Travail Aérien/Y Compris sa filiale Travail aérien
4/ Compagnie nationale Algerienne de navigation
5/ not ava!latle/pas disponible
Source:  Ministry of Finance/Ministère des,finances
April/Avril 1977



APPRAISAL OF                                                                   EVALUATION D'UN
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                         DEUXIEME PROJET ROUTIER
ALGERIA                                                                          ALGERIE
Crude Oil, Condensates, LPG and Natural Gas Transported by Pipeline
Pétrole brut, condensat/GPL et gaz raturel transportés par pipeline
(1961-74)
Millions of tons of Crude Oil, Condensates and LPG                   Millions of m3 of Natural Gas
Transported to/Millions de tonnes de pétrole brut                   Transported to/Millions de m3 de
et de condensat/GPL transportées vers                         gaz naturel transportées vers
Year/                Bejaia/
Année     Arzew      Alger       Skikda      La Skhirra      Total                 Arzew      Skikda      Total
1961                   8,7                        6,6         15,3                   182                    182
1962                  10,7                        9,7         20,4                   278                    278
1963                  13,8                        9,9         23,7                   310                    310
1964                  14,5                       11,7         26,2                   709                    709
1965                  14,9                       11,2         26,1                 1,752                  1,752
1966        8,4       15,1                       10,3         33,8                 1,961                  1,961
1967       13,7       15,2                        9,8         38,7                 2,115                  2,115
1968       17,8       15,4                        9,6         42,8                 2,342                  2,342
1969       19,4       15,2                        9,9         44,5                 2,838                  2,838
1970       20,2       16,4                       11,2         47,8                 2,742                  2,742
1971       17,1       14,6                        5,0         36,7                 2,802                  2,802
1972       18,0       14,4          6,9          10,4         49,7                 3,137        253       3,390
1973       18,3       12,2         11,1           8,5         50,1                 3,400      1,354       4,754
1974       19,9       12,1          7,1           7,6         46,7                 3,551     1,939        5,490
Source: Ministry of Industry and Energy/Ministere de l'industrie et de l'énergie
April/Avril 1977



APPRAISAL OF                                                                EVALUATION D'UN
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                     DEUXIEME PROJET ROUTIER
ALGERIA                                                                      ALGERIE
Revenues from Road User Charges (1972-76)
Taxes provenant des usagers de la route (1972-76)
(millions DA)
Import Duties on
Fuel Taxes 2/                                   Vehicles and Parts/
Taxes sur les carburants                               Droits d' importa-
Year      Gasoline      Diesel Oil      Total      Vehicle Taxes 3/  tion sur les véhicules        Total
Année     Essence       Gasoil          Total      Vignette           et pieces détachées 4/       Total
1969        334             77            411           92                       170                 673
1970        365             85            450          102                       200                  752
1971        395             90            485          110                       230                 825
1972        514            258            772          117                       275               1,164
1973        552            228            780          133                       335               1,248
1974        622            227            849          154                       340               1,343
1975      1,046            275          1,321           -                        350               1,671
1976        680            202            882           -                        375               1,257
1/ 1976 figures are through October only./les chiffres pour 1976 vont seulement jusqu 'en octobre.
2/ Fuel taxes from 1969 to June 1974 are DA 0.75 per liter on super gasoline, DA 0.69 per liter on
normal gasoline and DA 0.32 per liter on diesel. From July 1974 through 1976 the corresponding
taxes are DA 1.13 per liter, DA 1.08 and DA 0.32 respectively./Les taxes sur les carburants depuis
1969 jusqu 'à juin 1974 sont DA 0.75 par litre sur l'essence super, DA 0.69 par litre sur l'essence
normale et DA 0.32 par litre sur le gasoil. De juillet 1974 à 1976 les taxes correspondantes sont
respectivement; DA 1.13 par litre, DA 1.08 et DA 0.32.
3/ Annual vehicle tax is not effective anymore since 1975 and has been replaced by increased fuel
taxes./La vignette annuelle n'est plus perçue depuis 1975 et a été remplacée par une augmentation              H
des taxes sur les carburants.
4/ Figures for 1972 through 1976 are mission estimates based on vehicle fleet./Les chiffres de 1972
jusqu'à 1976 sont des estimations de la mission basées sur le parc des véhicules.                              H
Source:  Ministry of Finance/Ministère des finances
April/Avril 1977



TABLE/TABLEAU 5
APPRAISAL OF                                           EVALUATION D'UN
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                               DEUXIEME PROJET ROUTIER
ALGERIA                                                 ALGERIE
C1asjsified R~oad Network/
- /
Réseau routier classé -
Classification/                               Surface Tvpe/Etat de la surface
Classification                             Paved              Earth             Total
Revhetue           Terre 2/          Total
National Roads                                    14,800            3,700             18,500
Routes nationales
Regional Roads                                    15,500            6,200             21,700
Chemins de Wilaya
Local Roads                                        5,900           32,600             38,500
Chemins vicinaux ordinaires
36,200           42,500             78,700
46%              54%
1/  Details about the unclassified network are not available./
Le réseau non classé n'est pas connu avec exactitude.
2/ All weather roads/Routes circulables par tous les temps
Source:   Directorate for Infrastructure/
Direction de l'infrastructure
\pril/Avril 1977



APPRAISAL OF                                                   EVALUATION D'UN
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                                          DEUXIEME PROJET ROUTIER
ALGERIA                                                          ALGERIE
Vehicle Fleet (1965-75)/
Parc des véhicules (1965-75)
('000)
Passenger cars, vans and trucks
(Loading capacity«s 5.5 m tons)/
Year/            Voiture de tourisme, camionettes           Heavy vehicles              Total Fleet/
Annee            et camions (charge utile.c 5.5 t2          Poids lourds-               Parc total
1965                          118.9                               49.9                     168.8
1966                          131.4                               40.4                     171.8
1967                          137.5                               37.6                      175.1
1968                          144.0                               37.4                      181.4
1969                          169.9                               38.6                      208.5
1970                          181.4                               43.1                     224.5
1971                          190.4                               44.8                     235.2
1972                          207.8                               69.8                     277.6
1973                          226.7                              108.6                      335.3
1974                          232.0                              110.0                      342.0
1975                          238.0                              112.0                      350.0
Source:  Directorate for Infrastructure/Direction de l'infrastructure
April/Avril 1977



TABLE/TABLEAU 7
APPRAISAL OF                                       EVALUATION D'UN
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                             DEUXIEME PROJET ROUTIER
ALGERIA                                            ALGERIE
Fuel Consumption by Road Transport (1969-75)/
Consommation de carburants par le transport routier (1969-75)
Year                          Gasoline                      Diesel
Année                         Essence                       Gasoil
(m3)                         (MI3)
1969                          520,217                       291,338
1970                          566,224                       326,928
1971                          614,319                       368,789
1972                          667,240                       449,728
1973                          729,799                       534,434
1974                          785,560                       550,449
1975                          857,296                       639,688
Source: Société natioriale pour la recherche, la production,le transport,
la transformation et la commercialisation des hydrocarbures
(SONATRACH)
April/Avril 1977



TABLE/TABLEAU 8
APPRAISAL OF                                                                               EVALUATION D'UN
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                     DEUXIEME PROJET ROUTIER
ALGERIA                                                                                      ALGERIE
Expenditures and Sourcesof Finance on National and Regional Roads
(1971-1976)
Dépenses affectées aux routes nationales et réeionales et sources de financement
(1971-1976).L
National Roads                                                                 Total Expenditures
Routes Nationales                                                                 on National and
Central Government                           Regional Roads                       Regional Roada4/
Gouvernement Central                         Routes Régionales                     Dépenses Totales
Year        Investment    Maintenance  Total5/ Central Budget   Provincial Budget3/ Total         Affectées aux Routes
Année    Investissement   Entretien   Total   Budget Central-2 Budget de Wilaya    Total   Nationales et Régionales
1971          38.5           75.0       113.5        12.8                 39.3         52.1               165.6
1972          48.3           84.0       132.3         24.9                21.1         46.0               178.3
1973          78.4          100.0       178.4        44.6                 21.0         65.6               244.0
1974          92.4          107.0       199.4         31.7                17.1         48.8               248.2
1975         103.5          129.6       233.1        40.8                  NA           NA                 NA
1976         154.2          139.9       294.1       100.3                  NA           NA                NA
!/  In DA millions.  Expenditures for 1971-75; allocation for 1976/
En millions de DA. Dépenses effectives pour 1971-75; crédits délégués pour 1976.
2/  Excluding maintenance./ Non compris l'entretien.
3/ Construction and maintenance combined because separate data not available/
La construction et l'entretien sont groupés car les données séparées ne sont pas disponibles
4/ Excluding administrative costs/
Non compris les frais d'administration
5/ Total expenditures on national roads are comparable with the figures of Table 2 over the period 1971-76
rather than on a year-by-year basis/
Les dépenses totales affectées aux routes nationales sont comparables sur l'ensemble de la période
1971-76 avec les investissements du tableau 2 et non annee par année.
Source: Directorate for Infrastructure
Direction de l'infrastructure
April/Avril 1977



TABLE/TABLEAU 9
APPRAISAL OF                                             EVALUATION D'UN
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                                     DEUXIEME PROJET ROUTIER
ALGERIA                                                    ALGERIE
Average Maintenance Expenditures per km (1972-75)/
Dépenses moyennes d'entretien par km (1972-75)
Average of the                                 Average of thie 1/
Lowest Expenditures/    General Average/   highest Expenditures/
Moyenne des dépenses         Moyenne          Moyenne des dépenses
les plus faibles             générale         les plus élevées
DA        US$         DA        US$           DA        US$
National Roads/
Routes nationales
1972                    2,734       675        4,546    1,122          9,700    2,395
1973                    2,972       734        5,140    1,269        11,898    2,938
1974                    2,935       725       5,115    1,263           9,775    2,414
1975                    3,682       909       5,869    1,449         12,800    3,160
RegiDnal and 2/
Local Roads/
Chemins de Wilaya
et chemins vicinaux ordinaires
1972                      187        46          987      244          2,356       582
1973                      269        66          980       242        1,887       466
1974                      172        42          798      197         1,967       486
1975                      464       115       1,358        335         2,912       719
1/ The average of the highest expenditures consists of current and periodic main-
tenance; the average of the lowest expenditures only includes current maintenance/
La moyenne des deIperses les plus élevées comprend l'entretien périodique et normal;
la moyenne des dépenses les plus faibles comprend seulement l'entretien normal.
2/ Breakdown in regional and local roads is not available/
La répartition entre les chemins deWilaya et les chemins vicinaux ordinaires
n'est pas disponible.
Source: Directorate for Infrastructure
Direction de l'infrastructure
April/Avril 1977



APPKAISAL OF                                                                                                                   EVALUATION D'UN
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                        DEUXIEME PROJET ROUTIER
ALGERlA                                                                                                                          ALGERIE
DesiRn Characteristics of Project Road Sections
Caractéristiques !éometriques des tronrons routiers du   ojet
Intersection RN12-    Gorges of       Access to/
Thénia Bypass      Beni Amrane/Carrefour Beni Amrane/  Accès à
Unit/Unité                          Boudouaou-Thénia2z.1  Evitement   Thénia RN12-Beni Amrane         Gorges de B).A Lakhdaria
Terrain                             Rolling/Vallonné      Rolling/Vallonné      Rolling/Vallonné        Mountainous/Accidenté    Terrain
Length (km)                             15.204                   4.683                10.726             7.300         2.100      Longueur (km)
Design Speed (km/h)                       80                      80                    60                60            60        Vitesse de Base (km/h)
Gradient                                                                                                                          Rampes
Maximum Upgrade (%)                     6.0                     6.0                   5.0               4.0           6.0        Maximum (Z)
Length (m)                              1,200                   1,300                 1,200               400           600      Longueur(m)
Lane Width                                                                                                                         Largeur des voies
Lane (m)                                3.5                     3.5                   3.5               3.5           3.5        Voie (m)
Climbing Lane (m)                       3.0                     3.0                   3.5               3.5           3.5        Voie woids lourd (m)
Passing Lane (m)                         -                      _                     3.5               3.5           3.5        Voie de dépassement (m)
Emergency Stopping Lane (m)             2.50                   2.0                     -                 -             -         Voie d'urgence (m)
Length of Lanes                                                                                                                   Longueur des voies
Climbing Lanes (m)                      4,050                   3,480                 3,053             363           607        Voies poids lourd (m)
Passing Lanes (m)                        -                       -                    7,673            1,547           -         Voies de dépassement (m)
Number of Lanes                         4 - 5                   4 - 5                   3               2 - 3         2 - 3       Nombre de voies
Width of Shoulders (m)                   3.25                    3.25                3.25-3.25         2.75-3.25    3.25-0.75   Largeur des accotements (m)
Width of Median (m)                      2.70                    7.70                   -                 _             _         Largeur du terre-plein central (m)
Minimum Horizontal Radius (m)            300                      240                120(105)             120           120       Rayon horizontal minimum (m)
Minimum Crest Vertical Radius (m)        6,000                   6,000                 3,000              3,000         3,000     Rayon convexe minimum (m)
Minimum Sag Vertical Radius (m)          3,000                   3,000                 2,200              2,200         2,200     Rayon concave minimum (m)
Maximum Single Axle Load (t)              13                      13                    13                 13            13       Charge maximum par essieu (t)
Type of Wearing Course                 - - - - - - - - - - - - Surface Treatment/_ - - - - -    - - - - - - - - - - - -           Couche de roulement
Enduisage
1/ Boudouaou bypass has the same design characteristics/
L'évitement de Boudouaou a les mêmes caractéristiques géométriques
Source: Directorate for Infrastructure/
Direction de l'infrastructure
April/Avril 1977



TABLE/TABLEAU 11
APPRAISAL OF                                                                   EVALUATION D'UN
A. SECOND HrGHWAY PROJECT                                                       DEUXIEME PROJET ROUTIER
ALGERIA                                                                         ALGERIE
Project Cost Estimates
Estimation du coût du projet
Local    Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign    Total    Foreign
Items/Postes                          Local    Devises    Total    Local    Devises    Total    Devises
-------Millions DA -------    ------Millions US' -----
A.  highway Construction
Travaux de construction
1.  Foudouaou-Intersection RN12              116.1      82.0      198.1      28.7       20.2      48.9
2.  Intersection RN12-Lakhdaria               58.5      39.0       97.5      14.4        9.6      24.0
Subtotal A/Sous-total A               174.6      121.0      295.6     43.1       29.8       72.9       41
B.  Contingencies/
Provision pour imprévus
Physical Contingencies/
Imprévus physiques
For/Sur A.1 (10%)                             11.6       8.2       19.8       2.9        2.0        4.9
For/Sur A.2 (10%)                              5.9       3.9        9.8       1.5        1.0        2.5
Flrice Escalation/
Revision des prix -
For/Sur A.1 (23%)                             29.7      20.9       50.6       7.3        5.2      12.5
For/Sur A.2 (23%)                             15.0      10.0       25.0       3.7        2.5       6.2
Subtotal B/Sous-total B                62.2       43.0      105.2     15.4       10.7       26.1       41
C. Technical Assistance 3/
and Training/
Assistance technique et formation         2.8        4.2        7.0       0.7       1.0        1.7       59
(including all contingencies)/
(y compris toutes sujétions)
D. Right-of-way/
Expropriations                            3.5        -          3.5       0.9       -          0.9        °
Grand Total/Total géneral             243.1      168.2      411.3     60.1       41.5      101.6       41
; lUS$ = 4.05 DA
Price escalation contingencies are based on following assumptions; 9% in 1977, 9% in 1978-'79 and
8% in 1980./La révision des prix est basée sur les hypothèses suivantes; 9% en 1977, 9% en 1978-'79
et 8% en 1980.
3/ For detailed calculations see Table 12./Pour des calculs détaillés voir tableau 12.
'-,rce: Directorate for Infrastructure and Mission Estimates./Direction de l'infrastructure et
evaluation de la mission.
A2iL/Avril 1977



TABLE/TABLEAU 12
APPRAISAL OF                                                                                       EVALUATION D'UN
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                               DEUXIEME PROJET ROUTIER
ALGERIA                                                                                               ALGERIE
Cost Estimates Including ail Contingencies for Consulting Services and Training/
Estimation des coûts, toutes sujétions pour imprévus comprises,
pour services de coasultants et formation
Local       Foreign       Total      Local        Foreign       Total       Foreign
Local      Devises        Total       Local      Devises        Total      Devises
- DA '000 -----------                -            US$'000----------
A.   Consulting Services/
Services de consultants
1. Construction Supervision/               768       1,152         1,920       189.6        284.4        474.0
Surveillance des travaux
48 man-month/48 hommes-mois
2. Assistance to Maintenance Personnel/
Assistance au personnel de 1'          ,152       1,728         2,880       284.4        426.7        711.1
entretien routier
72 man-month/72 hommes-mois
3. Assistance to SETI staff 1/
Assistance au personnel SETI           384          576           960        94.8        142.2        237.0
24 man-month/24 hommes-mois
Subtotal/                                2,304       3,456          5,760       568.8       853.3      1,422.1
Soustotal
B.   Training Abroad//
Stages a l'étranger
1.  150 man-month/                         400          600        1,000        98.8        148.1        246.9
150 hommes-mois
2.  120 airtrips/                           96          144           240        23.7        35.6         59.3
120 voyages aériens
Subtotal/                                   496          744         1,240       122.5       183.7        306.2
Soustotal
Grand Total/                             2,800         4,207000                  691.3     1,037.0      ,728.3          59
Total géneral
1/ SETI: Service des étuaes et aes travaux d'infrastructure.
Source: Directorate for Infrastructure and Mission Estimates/
Direction de l'infrastructure et evaluation de la mission
April/Avril 1977



TABLE/TABLEA_ 13
APPRAISAL OF                                                             hV I AIIO0  D'UN
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                   DEUXIEMET PROJET ROUTIER
ALGERIA                                                                   ALGERTE
Estimated MaintexLar±i Costs w.tnth0u1  ad wîth i coject
Estimation des  -o5ts9  en'etien fL as et avec>   J51
('000 DA Ex T.axeg faxen/'000 DA, hors Éales)
Boudouaou -                    ters2ct'i;c1rrefÔuv RN12-
Intersection/Carrefour RN12                   Lakhdaria                         Boudouaou - Lakhdaria
Without              With               Without             With               Without              With
Iaprovement         Improvement         li,provemert       Improve:ment        Impnrovement        Imlprovement
Year            Sans                Avec                Sans                Av,c               Sans                Avec
Anne       AAmélioration        AmélioratiOnl       Adtoration         Amé17.i-ation       AaM6ioration        :e11oratioe.
1981            1289                                    1521                                   2810
1982             248                 562                 314                 30,3               562                 925
1983             248                 562                 314                 3Î3                562                 925
1984            1869                 562                 3L4                 3i3               2183                 925
1985             248                7351                 ?14                N44)3               562               11844
1986             248                 405                1521                 2 ;7              1769                 672
1987             248                 405                 314                 2u 7               562                 672
1988             248                 405                 214                 2i-7               562                 672
1989             248                 405                 314                 267                562                 672
1990             248                 405                 214                 2.7                562                 672
1991            1176                 405                1521                 2j7               2697                 672
1992             248                 405                 314                 257                562                 672
1993             248                 405                 314                 257                562                 672
1994            1869                 405                 314                 257               2183                 672
1995             248                7363                 314                4499                562               11862
1996             248                 405                1521                 257               1769                 672
1997             248                 405                 314                 2'57               562                 672
1998             248                 405                 314                 2i7                562                 672
1999             248                 405                 314                 257                562                 672
2000             248                 405                 314                 267                562                 672
Total present
value (1981)                                                                                10168               15353
Hi1an Actualisé (1981)
Source:  Directorate for 1ofrasz:ctur/D:  . Y,   8e 1i.:~s.r(C iXL
April/Avril 1977



TABLE/TABLEAU 14
APPRAISAL OF                                                                                         EVALUATION D'UN
A SECOND EIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                               DEUXIEME PROJET ROUTIER
ALGERIA                                                                                                 ALGERIE
Results of Sensttivity Testing -
Résultats des analyses de sensibilité 1'
Economic Return (%)           First Year Benefit (E)
Taux de rantabilité interne  Taux de -entabilité immédiat
With Value  Without Value  With Value  Without Value
of Time/       of Time/       of timel      of Time/
Avec valeur Sans valeur    Avec valeur Sans valeur
du temps    du temps         du temps    du temps
Boudouacu-Lakhdaria road  (40.0 km)                                                                 Route Boudouacu-Lakhdaria 'SO.O km)
Corptruction Cost    Total Benefits                                                                   CoÛt de construction Avirtages totaux
Best Estimate       Best Estimate        2C.0          18.0            9.5          9.0             Meilleure estimation Meilleure estimnion
25Z Increase        Best Estimate        17.0         15.0             7.5          7.0             Augmentation 25%       Meilleure estiîadtr.
Best Estimate       25% Decrease         ]6.C         14.0             9.5          9.0             Meilleure estimation Diminution 25%
10% Increase        10% Decrease         16.5         14.5             8.5           .C             Augmentation 10%       Diminution 10%
1/ Lack of basic data makes shadow price adjustments for foreign exchange, labor, etc.
if desirable, infeasible. Resulting variations in ER's would, however, be within
the variations indicated by the bhove sensitivity analyses/Même si souhaitable, le
manque de renseignements de base rend impossible le calcul de la révision par prix de
référence pour letaux de change, le coût de la main d'oeuvre etc. La variation des
taux de rentabilité interne qui en résulteraient, se situerait, toutefois, dans les
limites de variation des résultats des analyses de sensibilité.
Source: Mission Estimates/Evaluation de la mission
April/Avril 1977



TABLE/TABLEAUI 1?3
APPRAISAL OF                                                                                                  EVALUATION D'UN
A _ECO.ND HICH.WAYPROJECT                                                                                       DEUXIEME PROJET ROUTIER
ALGERIA                                                                                                         ALGERIE
1/
Average Daily Traffic (ADT) on Project Road Sections -
Trafic journalier moyen (TJM) sur des sections de la route du projet
Passen4er Cars/Voitures privées
Road Section            1976          1981            1986             1991            1996            2001          Section de la Route
L  T  I  T  I        T      I        T       L       ~~     ~~       ~~~~~~~~~T  L  T
Boudouaou -           991  6,112  1,710  12,885  2,469  19,640  3,420  30,420  4,713  37,065  6,462  50,529    Boudouaou -
Intersection RN12                                                                                                      Carrefour RN12
Intersection RN12 -  295  2,704    435   5,459    616   8,477    856  27,057  1,184  16,103  1,628  22,046    Carrefour RN12 -
Beni Amrane                                                                                                            Beni Amrane
Beni Amrane -          -   2,645    -       5,372    -      8,353    -    11,538    -    15,865    -    21,718    Beni Amrane -
Lakhdaria                                                                                                              Lakhdaria
Light Trucka/Can4onettes
Boudouaou -            373  2,020   738   4,821   1,126   7,753  1,590 10,924  2,167  14,891   2,953  20,316   Boudouaou -
Intersection RN12                                                                                                     Carrefour RN12
Intersection RN12 -   109  1,157   192   2,735        292   4,560    410  6,401    560   8,708         764  11,850   Carrefour RN12 -
Beni Amrane                                                                                                           Beni Amrane
Beni Amrane -          -    1,140   -       2,704    -       4,513   -      6,337      -    8,620    -       11,731   Beni Amrane -
Lakhdaria                                                                                                             Lakhdaria
Heavy Vehicles/Poids lourds
Boudouaou -              90    868   168   1,920       259   3,089    367  4,358    503   5,945         689   8,117   Boudouaou -
Intersection RN12                                                                                                      Carrefour RN12
Intersection RN12 -    33    622    54   1,472          81   2,484    114  3,470    156   4,695         214   6,363   Carrefour RN12 -
Beni Amrane                                                                                                            Beni Amrane
Beni Arsrane -          -      615   -      1,461    -       2,468    -    3,447       -    4,663    -        6,321   Beni Amrane -
Lakhdaria                                                                                                             Lakhdaria
Ail Vehicles/Tous les vehicules
Boudouaou -         1,454   9,000 2,616  19,626   3,854  30,482  5,377 42,339   7,383 57,901   10,104 78,962   Boudouaou -
Intersection RN12                                                                                                     Carrefour RN12
Intersection RN12 -  437   4,483   681   9,666        989  15,521  1,380 21,581   1,900 29,506    2,606 40,259   Carrefour RN12 -
Beni Amrane                                                                                                           Beni Amrane
Beni Amrane -         -     4,400   -       9,537    -      15,334    -   21,322       -   29,148            39,770   Beni Amrane -
Lakhdaria                                                                                                             Lakhdaria
ADT/TJM
Local Plus Through Traffic/Trafic local et transit
1976           1981            1986          1991             1996             2001
Boudouaou -              10,454         22,242           34,336        47,716           65,284           89,066       Boudouaou -
Intersection RN12                                                                                                     Carrefour RN12
Intersection RN12 -       4,920         10,347           16,510        22,961           31,406           42,865       Carrefour RN12 -
Beni Amrane                                                                                                           Beni Amrane
Beni Anrane -             4,400           9,537          15,334        21,322           29,148           39,770       Beni Amrane -
Lakhdaria                                                                                                             Lakhdaria
Growth Rates/Taux de croissance
1976/81     1981/86 2/         1986/91       1991/96        1996/2001         1981/2001
Boudouaou -                11.5%          9.1%             6.1%          6.5Z           6.4%               7.1%       Boudouaou -
Intersection RN12                                                                                                     Carrefour RN12
Intersection RN12 -        13.5%          9.8%             6.8%          6.5%           6.4%               7.3%       Carrefour RN12 -
Beni Amrane                                                                                                           Beni Amrane
Beni Amrane -              14.2%         10.0,'            6.8%          6.5%           6.4%               7.4%       Beni Amrane -
Lakhdaria                                                                                                             Lakhdaria
1/ L = local traffic/trafic local
T = through traffic/trafic transit
2/ Generated traffic starts in 1981/Trafic gEndré commence en 1981
Source f Directorate for Infrastructure/Direction de 1 'infrastrccture
April/Avril 1977



TABLE/TABLEAU iE
APPRAISAL OP                                      EVALUATION D'UN
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                             DEUXIEtIE PROJET ROUTIER
ALGERIA                                             ALGERIE
Average Vehicle Operating Costs/i/
Coüts moyens dVexploitation des véhicules
(DA 0.001/km)
Light trucks
Camionnettes
Speed/                                 (loading capacity/
Vitesse       Passenger cars/          Charge utile               Heavy vehicles/
(km/h)        Voitures privees           6 5.5 ton)               Poids lourds
20                45.2                    75.7                     122.8
30                37.7                    56.8                     102.1
40                33.2                    47.0                      92.0
50                30.4                    41.4                      86.0
60                28.3                    37.5                      82.2
70                27.0                    34.9                      79.4
80                26.1                    33.4                      77.6
90                25.4                    32.0
/  Excluding taxes; on a level, paved highway in good condition; without
congestion/Non compris les taxes; sur une route revêtue en bonne
condition en terrain plat; sans congestion
2/ The typical vehicles are: (i) mid-sized European passenger car with
gasoline engine; (ii) European small truck with gasoline engine and
loading capacity between 1 and 5.5 metric tons; (iii) European truck with
diesel engine and loading capacity of 10.5 metric tons or European bus
with diesel engine; buses represent 3% of total traffic of heavy vehicles./
Les véhicules types sont: (i) voiture privée européenne de dimensions
mo07ennes avec moteur d'essence; (ii) petit camion européen de charge
utile entre 1 et 5,5 t avec moteur d'essence; (iii) camion européen de
charge utile de 10,5 t avec moteur diesel ou bus européen avec moteur
diesel; les bus représentent 3% du trafic total des véhicules lourds.
Source: Directorate for Infrastructure/Direction de l'infrastructure
April/Avril 1977



APPRAISAL OF                                                                           EVALUATION D'UN
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                 DEUXIEME PROJET ROUTIER
ALGERIA                                                                                 ALCERIE
Average Characteristies of Typical Vehicles/
Caracteristiques moyennes des v6hicules types
Price ( /           Price of Tires3/                                                Annual           Fuel4/
Prix               Prix des Pneus                   Vehicle Life   Tire Life/   Vehicle           Consumption
Including  Excluding  Including  Excluding  Number of    (Years)/              Duree    Kilometrage/ Liters/lO00 km/
Tax/        Tax/        Tax/        Tax/       Tires/   Dur4e de Vie  de vie des  Kilométrage   Consommation
Typical Vehiclel/   Taxe           Hors        Taxe        Hors    Nombre de  du véhicule          pneus      annuel du    de carburant
Véhicule type    comprise         taxe    coPmpise        taxe       pneus        Annee)       Km '000      véhicule      ]itre /1000 km
Passenger car/       30,000      17,080         156        120          4            10             50          22,000           120
Voiture privée
Light truck/        20,3':5      14,800         223        174          4             9             50          30,000           187
Camio-,rette
Heavy vehiclel       95,000      70,000       1,170        850          6              6            48         100,000           362
Po'ds lourd
If The typical vehicles are:  (i) mid-sized European passenger car with gasoillüe englue; (ir)  Eurupean smail  truck witni
gasoline engine and loading capacity of 1 metric ton; (iii) European truck with diesel engine and loading capacity of
10.5 metric tons./Les véhicles types sont:  (i) voiture privée européenne de dimensions moyennes avec moteur d'essence;
(ii) netit camion européen de charge utile 1 avec moteur d'essencc; (iii) camion europeen de charge utile de 10,5 t avec
moteur diesel.
2/ £nu ii70 price excLuuiiag Lirea/Prix Lin 1970 non compris les pneus.
3/ End 1975 price/Prix fin 1975.
4/ On a level, paved highway in good condition, at average speeds of 90 km/h for passenger cars, 80 km/h for light trucks
and 70 km/h for heavy vehicles.  Price per liter of gasoline (1975 DA) is 1.390 including tax and 0.310 excluding tax;
price per liter of diesel (1975 DA) is 0.447 including tax and 0.128 excluding tax./Sur une route revëtue en bonne
condition en terrain plat à des vitesses moyennes de 90 km/h pour les voitures privées, 80 km/h pour les petits camions
et 70 km/h pour les poids lours.  Le prix au litre d'essence (1975 DA) est de 1,390 y compris la taxe et 0,310 hors
taxe; le prix au litre de diesel (1975 DA) est de 0,447 y compris la taxe et 0,128 hors taxe.
Source:  Directorate for Infrastructure/Direction de l'infrastructure
P3
April/Avril 1977



ANNEX 1
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
ALGERIA
Transportation Projects Previously Financed by the Bank
1.   Loan 912-AL, 1973, to the Government of the Democratic and Popular
Republic of Algeria, Highways, US$18.5 million, Closing Date December 31,
1977. Major components of this project are:
(a) improvement and construction of 9 sections of national
and regional roads with a total of about 67 km;
(b) consulting services to the Directorate for Infrastructure
for reconnaissance and inventory of about 7,000 km of
principal roads, feasibility studies and detailed
engineering of about 600 km of principal roads and the
Algiers-East expressway (40 km), a maintenance study, and
general technical and economic studies of the road
sector;
(c) technical assistance to the National Road Laboratory; and
(d) purchase of road maintenance vehicles, spare parts,
and laboratory equipment.
The project originally included feasibility studies of the Oran-Arzew and
Algiers Southwest expressways, additional economic studies of the Trans-
Sahara road, detailed engineering of the Algiers Southwest expressway and
feasibility studies of an additional 400 km of principal roads. Upon
Government's request and with Bank approval, these elements have been
deleted while reconnaissance and inventory of 7000 km of principal roads
and detailed engineering of 600 km of principal roads have been included
and the content of some of the technical studies enlarged. (Bank's letter
to Ministry of Finance, February 10, 1976). To allow completion of the
additional studies the closing date had to be postponed from December 31,
1976 to December 31, 1977.
Construction and improvement of the nine road sections have been completed
by local and foreign contractors. Reconnaissance, feasibility studies,
detailed engineering, other studies and technical assistance provided under
the project are being carried out by foreign consultants. The purchase of
highway maintenance vehicles, spare parts, and laboratory equipment has
been completed.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Loan 996-AL, 1974,to the Sociéte Nationale des Chemins de Fer Algeriens,
Lailways, US$49 million, Closing Date December 31, 1978.  Major components
cf this project are:
(a) complete renewal of 315 km of track;
(b)  purchase of track renewal equipment, automatic level
crossing equipment, workshop machinery and rolling
stock;
(c)  signalling, telecommunications, and remodelling of
stations, yards and sidings;
(d) doubling or realigninent of track sections in the
Annaba and Algiers industrial areas; and
(e) consulting services for economic, technical organizational
and tariff studies, and a feasibility study on the
establishment of a technical training institute for
middle management.
In general, the execution of the project is being carried out satisfacto-
iily although some consulting studies are about one year behind schedule.
Ihe Government dissolved the old railroad entity, Societé Nationale des
Chemins de Fer Algériens (SNCFA), and replaced it by the Société Nationale
des Transports Ferroviaires (SNTF) and the Société Nationale d'Etudes et
de Realisations de l'Infrastructure Ferroviaire (SNERIF). The legal
opinion on the division of SNCFA into SNTF and SNERIF has been received
and is generally satisfactory while the practical effects of the change
are being closely watched.
Loan 995-AL, 1974, to the Government of the Democratic and Popular
Bepublic of Algeria, Ports, US$70 million. Major components of this pro-
ject are:
(a) construction of three breakwaters, ten berths, and a
shallow draft basin for harbor craft;
(b) support facilities;
(c) dredging works;
(d) consulting services for project preparation and
execution; and
(e) technical assistance for improving port management,
administration and operations, the preparation of a
Port Master flan, and training of personnel of national
companies dealing with port operations and shipping.
WQork is progressing satisfactorily and costs indicated in contracts already
awarded are somewhat below the May 1974 appraisal estimates.
April 1977



ANNEX 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
ALGERIA
Description of Project Road
Existing Road
1.        The existing road between Boudouaou and Lakhdaria (40 km) has
substandard geometry and a distressed pavement; the width of its sections varies
from 5.5 m (14.4 km) to 7 m (18.6 km), and to 10.5 m (7.0 km). Its
traffic service level is low as a result of substandard sight distances,
steep grades, narrow shoulder widths, and unrestricted access from
roadside development in urban and peri-urban areas, and one critical sec-
tion is occasionally flooded.
Alternative Alignments
2.        Three alternative route alignments between Boudouaou and
Lakhdaria were selected for comparison:
(a) the existing alignment;
(b) a new alignment close to the existing road and, in fact using
part of the existing alignment; and
(c)  a new alignment to provide a direct link between Boudouaou
and Lakhdaria.
3.        Alignment (a) was eliminated, since improving some of the
existing road sections would be more costly than construction on a new
alignment close to the existing sections. Alignment (c) was eliminated
because of excessively high construction costs arising from deep rock cuts.
Alignment (b) was therefore, retained as the best alternative.
4.        The desirability of bypasses for the towns of Boudouaou, Thenia
and Lakhdaria has also been examined. Bypasses are recommended for
Boudouaou and Thenia since the roads through these towns must accommodate
heavy volumes of both local and through traffie and are heavily congested.
For Lakhdaria either an increase in the capacity of the through road,
or a bypass will have to be considered before congestion conditions will
be reached towards the end of the next decade. The construction of the
Boudouaou and Thenia bypasses will not hinder urban development around
these cities since the alignments are beyond the fringes of future
residential and recreational developments; they are located in the rural
countryside and do not involve resettlement of farms or inhabitants.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Design Concepts and Standards
5.        Design standards are irn Table 10.  The following alternatives
were considered: (i) the ivmediate construction of a two-lane highway
with passing and climbing lanes between Boudouaou and Lakhdaria;
(ii) the staged construction of the first two lanes with passing and
climbing lanes of an ultimate four-lane divided highway with climbing
lanes; and (iii) the immediate construction of a four-lane divided
highway with climbing lanes. Alternative (i) has been rejected since
forecast traffic would result in serious congestion problems in the
mid-1980's. There is an appreciable difference between two-lane and
four-lane staged construction cost estimates for the section between
the intersection of National Roads 5 and 12 and Lakhdaria, because the
four-lane construction would require larger quantities of excavation,
drainage items and tunnels (total length 1.6 km). Therefore, alter-
native (ii) has been selected as the best solution for this section.
Staged construction for the section between Boudouaou and the inter-
section of National Roads 5 and 12 has been rejected because of the
high traffic volumes in the near future, which are about double the
traffic on the section between the intersection of National Roads 5
and 12 and Lakhdaria. In summary the proposed improvements consist of:
(a) alternative (iii) for the first section between Boudouaou and the
intersection with National Road 12 and (b) alternative (ii) for the
section from the intersection with National Road 12 to Lakhdaria.
6.        The proposed section between Boudouaou and the intersection
of National Roads 5 and 12 consists of subsections with widths of 17.5 m
(3.1 km) and 14 m (9.4 km). The 17.5 m subsections are located in more
hilly terrain and, therefore, include climbing lanes. Under the
proposed project, the horizontal and vertical alignments will be built
straighter with fewer and lower grades. Grade separated intersections
will be provided for intersections with National Road 12, and regional
roads CW9 and CW11; crossings will be provided for feeder roads.
7.        The proposed section between the intersection of National Roads
5 and 12 and Lakhdaria consists of subsections with widths of 10.5 m
(13.4 km) and 7 m (6.6 km). The 10.5 m width subsections comprise
climbing and passing lanes to provide adequate traffic capacity in hilly
terrain. Level crossings will be provided for feeder roads. In sections
where the new alignment coincides with the existing road, the existing
pavement will serve as subbase for the new pavement.
8.        Upon the consultants' advice, the Government agreed to apply
the concept of stage-construction to pavement. The initial surface
course would be a high quality surface treatment. A bituminous concrete
wearing course would be added when required by traffic volume and has
been considered as periodic maintenance.
9.        The Boudouaou ard Thenia bypasses include climbing lanes to
ensure consistent cupac.Jty levels to meet forecast traffic requirements.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
10.       In conclusion, the proposed project would provide for:
(i) replacing the existing two-lane road between Boudouaou and
the intersection with National Road 12 with a modern divided
four-lane highway with climbing lanes and bypasses for the
towns of Boudouaou and Thenia; and
(ii) replacing the existing road between the intersection with
National Road 12 and Lakhdaria with a modern two-lane
highway with passing and climbing lanes.
April 1977



A oiSAK OF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            iVmkim  n- D'lmI
A ilicONDI dOCOiWAO PR0JEO q r                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ;ll  Yfd3JfT !011TIER
_   __  _                   _                    ____  _ ctiO tOI1'77                                                                    1.978                          3979                           ±b 
Tttritport  ie                 _                     Acnctio yI                                       Oof    eJF^MSAoNO                                       0¶.   F1AH5OMi-2                                                                    .PJ^S MAI1z
I.   Bark Lo-/                           1.01 signing LoAn Ag...  rntI                        Goverenrot and BockV
2:k eat 4ane                             Signqature accord de p ro:                      coovetoOaont et Banqcut
10  000na  Agrenenr~t  tiFettitt/                   Coottrpnet and 004/V
Ertrêe en viat;eot accord de ptÂt              Groveoonetft et lanque 
_   _  _ 1 03 ~~~~~L~Cioetrt dato/Dato de ctloi1I00.__ .n                             nk/_oa .aoi.eea-ilS  _ _ _ _ __..
Aooctein«eor ttanqenu
1_03      .   _   _____t    0, , . .   __
2    Constuct  n oF  nut sos -    P1 Fnallzng B'di .-  cuts 1                   Dl . C.-sl-t.nt  B-,          F
laihdedrta TOoodI                        Ctapllrer Aoca eett  d'qppel                   Dil  Cottaitarra, taoque
Ctnetroctior de Iq toute d-tf  e-
Roadoaaoa-l.akbdatio                2.02  Dreqaait tcatnan                               Dl bi  pl 
ôta Cnt teptt Se
2 03 teectatton ta BiAl                             Dl  BD.ek/
Appel d'offre                                  DI.  I.enitte
2. 04 CoItract Guarda!                               l, 'del
2.05 Cot.rtati fon/Caettact or                      DI, Ctttractotlntptj e                                                   , _      _ _      --                             i ,.b_ pln
_aaao Att _ t-- -              __   . a.n_.:
3.   Coaeaîtiaig Servlcec tor            3. il Firaiiritg TreatA u2 of R ttroe/      |        Dl, Oaok/r                                            |
iupttvtieirr                           CeattIger trilperatior Oo  anodatt              Dl  tatqot
Ittyttea dèt Consairdots            3.02 Imvitation of proptsa3s/i                       Dl ni, kr/ 
trotr la Carnet]laOtn                  Itnitîtiot dec pttpoai iiott           |        Dl, Bnqerlo
3.03 t-aluat.o- oF tropoalsl                |       DI, Be-k/
tvaloation Oea ptopoaAtlotin         t| Dl e^qoe|
3.0D4   attant An-rd/                       l         I  a Bak/
l  tsaipd- ni BchP D
3.05 terannon/                                      VI: Ctnq.lt.nrn/
Cailoaruion                                       Dl, tan.aîtnenr                                                           J Z                                                  _                 _
_  ..  , _ _ ___ ...............~~~~~~~~~~~~D, c....  __.___Ir-___1  
4.                                       .......  Ii  .--f,v
|4.   Coraotîtig Ittolcea ior              4.ûl FinaiAttio  'icoe n tt Birtenrrl       |        Dl BanAl            
fl   Trioinog                   I       C.pler prdparetioo da -radat          I         i D, 50-eII
|   (A)  ttniaganae PerBoCal      |4.02 teorranio  of  -pt...alr/                        Pl, Oook(
CI(b)  OCttnPemotaor                         ltni.tatGan des ptttreietaan                     00D, tenqa.t                  |                      y
ctobrer de Cereainenna poar         4.D3 naaion                             p f tapal i/  DI: B.eIl
la freration                           ttÉaiaatirt dca ptroptclftio          t| Dl  *           s                                                                                                                                       
(a3  Cra anel de 1' entrettt    kO 4.04 Copac.t-  Anordi                                 il, deA/ O 
torptiet                                  Paeenti or desi  reh> e                         P1. dakqre                                                                                    (-)  12 eia-lntthaSc    ta Xi
(S   ttanectn  IiII             taloautnn                              |         i Dlnonsainnece|                                                                                                                                                                            l
_aerre,, Itd  It Drt DI,                                                                    qaeit 150 e b nA fir,-atb.es
Ap,nl/A-tiI 1977



ANNEX/ANNEXE 4
APPRAISAL OF                                      EVALUATION D'UN
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                              DEUXIEME PROJET ROUTIER
ALGERIA                                              ALGERIE
Schedule of Cumulative Disbursements
Calendrier estimatif des décaissements
IBRD Fiscal Year                                              Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                                                      at end of Quarter
BIRD Exercice et                                              Decaissements cumulés aux
Trimestre                                                     fins de Trimestre
(US$'000)
1977/78
March/Mars 31, 1978                                                   0.500
June/Juin 30, 1978                                                    3.000
1978/79
September/Septembre 30, 1978                                          6.000
December/Décembre 31, 1978                                            9.000
March/Mars 31, 1979                                                  12.000
June/Juin 30, 1979                                                   15.000
1979/80
September/Septembre 30, 1979                                         19.000
December/Décembre 30, 1979                                           23.000
March/Mars 31, 1980                                                  26.000
June/Juin 30, 1980                                                   31.000
1980/81
September/Septembre 30, 1980                                         34.000
December/Décembre 31, 1980                                           38.000
March/Mars 31, 1981                                                  40.000
June/Juin 30, 1981                                                   41.500
Source: Mission estimates/Estimation de la mission
April/Avril jq77



ANNEX 5
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
ALGERIA
Project Road - Zone of Influence
1.        The following industrial activities either exist or are planned
for the near future in the zone of influence of the proposed construction
of the Boudouaou-Lakhdaria road.
Existing Industries
2.        The main industries existing in the zone of influence are:
Algiers   - a cement factory with an annual production of one
million tons, and six transformation industries;
Blida     - the principal equipment maintenance center of
SONATRACH;
Rouiba    - a vehicle assembly plant with an annual production
of about 13,000 trucks and buses;
Reghaia   - a pipe factory; and
Boumerdes - a technical school and a university with a combined
enrollment of 20,000 students.
Planned Industries
3.        The principal industrial projects being executed and those pro-
posed in the current Four-Year Development Plan are:
Lakhdaria      - a chemical plant with a projected annual produc-
tion of 90,000 tons (detergents, PVC and plastic
products);
Thenia         - a construction materials and aggregates plant
with a projected annual production of 9 million
tons;
Boudouaou      - a construction materials plant with a projected
annual production of 500,000 tons;
Bordj Menaiel - the manufacture of utensils, tools and electric
switches;
Algiers        - a one-million-ton expansion of the annual capacity
of the existing cement factory;



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Blida         - an aggregates plant with a projected annual pro-
duction of 300,000 tons; and the manufacture of
refrigerators and washing machines;
Tizi Ouzou    - a wheat mill;
Bovira        - a cement factory with a projected annual capacity
of one million tons; and a furniture factory;
Draa-El Mizan - the manufacture of doors and windows; and
Boumerdes     - an expansion of the existing technical school
and university (projected student enrollment of
30,000).
April 1977



ALGERIA
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGVHWAY PROJECT
U,sUiat-JLAIVIYJN  Ul-  iH t1  ViNIbitY  Ui.t- rUbLIK   IfVUKiKSS ANL) (;t)NIV    KU( I IoI
R..= -dR=.d                                                                                                                                  .
----~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~~                                                                                                                                                   ~ ~~~~~~ -lb -r .. ,    -e-
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D.P
Inspection General   for General   5                       Oirectolate fnr Intrasilurltirere orre or  onsroci1                                                             OrrofooreforPlanin                         Dieogra  fo[Geera
~~~~~~~~~~fr   nrS Adn e  aior                                                                   recrorares for .lrrrcrr                                                  n  OOsîl                _n  .__a  Dvlprer                            _        _        haa  Ma_r
General Adminisiralive Ma-ters                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Office for lnfrEstructure ProjectsSudrcoaefr
- PersonneI                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Subdirectorates for   Groîgrons for                                      Subtdireororases fo
Accqmnting Budgeting and                                        ._ ~~~~~Roads and Airpaorrs         _ Roads and Airports                                _ Qerrnsruefiesn                       Sobairecrorates for                      -T  sutr shonfrNto       I
Profession31 Trairlin                                            _~~ Eqruiprrenl                     - Stroosores                                       _ Rtural Housîrro                        _ Urban Oeoeloomerrtrufa                                ra  n
.- Heoolatos                                                                                                                                     , oq   lln
Source: Direcrorame for Infrastructure
April 1977



ALGERIA
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF A PROVINCIAL DIRECTORATE FOR INFRASTRUCTURE AND LAND USE/
Central Government
1~~~~~~~~~~~~
Provincial Government
|  Directorate for Infrastructure anid Lan d Use                                                                        6 Other Directorates2/      
Subd,rectorate for Transport Wnrastructure                                                                                                                   _  
Offices for                                                 Subdirectorate for Housing                     Subdirectorate for Construction                        Subdirectorate for Town Planning
-Roads and Airports                                       Offices for                                    Offices for                                            Offices for
- Ports                                                     - Urban Housing                                - Public Buildings                                     -Studies
- Construction and Laboratory                               - Rural Housing                                - Buildings for Agricultural Collectives               - Supervision and Regulations
- Equipment
1/ The organizational link between the Provincial Directorate for Infrastructure and
Land Use and the MPWC exists through the Provincial and Central Governments.
Z1 Other Directorates are for general matters, finance, agriculture and agrarian reform,
industry and energy, culture and training, social matters and trade.
World Bank-16909
Source: Directorate for Infrastructure
April 1977






IBRD1 2657
PORTUG~AL
X                                       g;~~~~S P' A 1 N
_ 1 _A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tg. .                                                                                    T d  N  1:  .,  1 dA.........  e/>/,7 
W~~~~ H -                                                                                                                                .1 H -.n    $iiÉX 
Èf BYA
/   \                  /                                 ~~~~~~~~~)2%qégane  -N         f--<                               ;n4' 
\MAURITANIA/ *                                                                 ` S                  -' ` "                              S -
ALGERIA               \.                                                                                           ' A`
TRANSPORTATION                                                                  \                                  < :                   R
INFRASTRUCTURE                                                                                                Q A  
MAN NAT ONAL ROADS                                                   I                        Kt
- MAIN SAHARA TRACKS                                                                                           5 |K.-.:,
IISTANDARD CAUGE RAILWANS                             N                           I        ,                   )    r
NARROW GAUGE RAILWAYS                  \ |
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT;                     t                  '                              -                    \ 
+     SECONDARY AIRPORTS                                                 '5<                      .                      I 
"~EL CES,
CIELNE,                                                              /           A'  'i  .                                           -         N   I G    E  R
CAS                                                            7                                                                                   I    E
`     Rl ESN AND NTERMITTENT STRE2MS                    MALI
' 0     YOUNTAINOUS AREAS
IN7ERNATONAL EOUNDARIES                                             /
A    IL0    20 0           30U                                \                                                            5                        'o 'o,., t,h o,,. o, .,   C
.ILTIETEAU                                                     |                                                                          O/.'O' oo'' e'i'' tl No
__ _ __ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ _ __ __-_ _   IO ° .  __ __ _ __ _ __ _                         A ?s  Xgo  _   lo g g10                    






X '; LA 5 1 U  ' ' 2   ' 0  f P;   > 0  i  S   )   D i, i ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~           ~           ~          ~          ~          ~          ~         ~          ~        ~         IRD    265
00  r; « 0  0   0   X 0 ( 0 5 E   A 0 \ E  0 0    ;  ;    0 E ,   ;   5   2 J U          ;          S Ç   _        * D   , s     ,. Q o       r j , .  ,    ,,  M ~~~~~~
t z J U f  0   0  f A  i  f   \ L iu    J   0 :0 |  f   S    X      f               fZ 9 9 Ur iU             AW _   _ 
t  ç r   r   0: J 5    :  0 r \0 J É: . r L   ) 93 0; 0  q   q   \   -   1  t ff   \ E A    t     ;         gi   l7 Ai;S   " " '  '-  '              '      :         y      SSoghl;:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c~î~
\r   A000;tvSJ500Uct  i022080 l 040\t;l j5000fi000\ i\t ;9\J 97 -5;ta«jg7 HEÈA;-F
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R TA bChA.b:  bO                                                                                                                          _
@ ~~~~~~ u r &«i r TiTESAAi ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hm.bMl,o                                                                                                         BEN O Ai  A m: /
A    iX    (   J   merrouaghi:  <\  \  XUR EL GHOZLANE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A.                                                                       E MZA
/A R';E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                                                                                                                 36'30' X 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T AI D EF                                        h-  mil- U. rA     
a, 5'~ ,   F  zegl    i m   ,,''  U    ''j  É       ;<    i  \''É   5j!    #  e'  i7'rt            e    l           '$  i    fA   2 2   5'   .                        LiR ï
<r0/<7s       m     0900'(,2,   8                                   '2 4    i;0E -L tZONE OF INFLUENCE OF
O  '   \\ t rb   <       ,    .0;A,W04    "    0É    ,   }g;:fi;t    0É4\j   \ :,zÉs('PRO JECT                                                                       RO A D
ffi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  -  00; 0 ret Roud
t / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   ;t\Pvd N.t,.,.[ Rocd5
g \t_ j 2hrmond*,s _ 4, A ~~~~~~~.%                                                                                                                   Wr--- odUdr osrc1 
CITY OF ALGIERS                                   Â                    /5                                               \           r' 
'! U  ;1 U Hovslng Areus   \   \ < /     :'        /         /      /   5 _'             Z    \                               0    5   10         20        30        »0         50~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 5   1  20  0  4
S.p.d., Ror ds               t                                                                  /lKLOMETERS
KILOMETERS                             -o obar                     2                                                 T   rroIPl1  norrren 1                                                                            v(e7raç           th,



