CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1407 AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Second Highway Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC
OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 15, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 15, 1977, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR
REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNA-
TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank).


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
"Section 9.02. Financial and Economic Data. The member
of the Bank which is the Borrower or the Guarantor shall
furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request with respect to financial and economic
conditions in its territory."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
forty-one million five hundred thousand dollars ($41,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank,
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil
works to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981
or such later date as the Bank shall otherwise establish. The Bank
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-5 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out and sup,!rvise
the Project through its competent ministry with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial,
administrative and engineering practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist in the supervision of the
construction of Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Bank.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Part B (2) and Part B (3) of
the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.04. For the implementation of Part C of the
Project, the Borrower shall provide the Bank with a training
program the content of which shall be agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Bank. The Borrower shall carry out such program
and make such modifications as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested for the purpose of improving such training program.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and any directly relevant records and documents; (iii)
shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds; and (iv) shall furnish to the Bank bi-monthly
reports on the progress of the Project within four weeks after
each two-month period, commencing on the start of the execution
of the Project.


﻿- 7 -
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take, in conformity with its
regulations, all measures necessary to ensure at all times that
the dimensions and axle loads of vehicles using its roads do not
exceed limits consistent with the design standards of such roads.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall continue to take every
technical, administrative or financial measure for the purpose
of defining and implementing the maintenance and development
program of the road network.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take all such 4action as
shall be necessary to acquire and make available as and when needed
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for the construction of the road, described in Part A of the
Project.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the
Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, no lien shall be
created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" .means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision.


﻿- 9 -
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained in an appropriate manner, the road described in Part
A of the Project.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date August 15, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist6re des Finances
Palais du Gouvernement
Alger
Algeria
Cable address:                     Telex:
FINPLAN                            52062
Alger
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WJI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Algiers,
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria, as of the day and year
first above written.
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR
REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
By Is/ Mohamed Saddik Ben Yahia
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works and              29,800,000         41% (repre-
production of                                  senting the
aggregates and                                 estimated
bituminous                                     foreign ex-
materials under                                penditure com-
Part A of the                                  ponent)
Project
(2) Consultants'                    280,000        100% of foreign
services for                                   expenditures
Part B (1) of
the Project
(3) Consultants'                    400,000        100% of foreign
services for                                  expenditures
Part B (2) of
the Project
(4) Consultants'                    140,000        100% of foreign
services for                                  expenditures
Part B (3) of
the Project
(5)  (a) Fellowships                144,400        100% of foreign
for Part C of                            expenditures
of the Project


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(b) International                35,600        100%
air tickets for
Part C of the
Project
(6) Unallocated                  10,700,000
TOTAL        41,500,000


﻿- 15 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that


﻿- 16 -
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:
Construction of the Boudouaou-Lakhdaria Section (about 40 km)
of national road No. 5 through: (1) replacing the existing
two-lane road between Boudouaou and the intersection with
national road No. 12 near Thenia with a four-lane divided
highway with climbing lanes and bypasses for the towns
of Boudouaou and Thenia; and (2) replacing the existing
road between the intersection with national road No. 12 near
Thenia and Lakhdaria with a two-lane highway with passing and
climbing lanes; all in accordance with the design standards
set forth in the Annex to this Schedule.
Part B:
The provision of consultants' services for: (1) the
supervision of the construction of Part A of the Project;
(2) on-the-job training of road maintenance personnel in
three or four maintenance centers; and (3) implementation
of recommendations of general studies on road maintenance-
organization, road planning and geotechnical aspects of
roads, according to procedures to be agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Bank.


﻿- 18 -
Part C:
Training of highway engineers of the competent ministry, as
well as highway engineers of national construction companies
through fellowships (about 150 man-months) abroad in
accordance with a program acceptable to the Borrower and the
Bank.
The Project is expected to be completed by May 31, 1981.


﻿- 19 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Design Standards of Project Road Sections
Boudouaou-         Lakhdaria-
Intersection       Intersection
with  National     with National
Road  No. 12       Road  No. 12
1. Design Speed (km/h)                  80                 60
2. Maximum Gradient (%)                  6                  6
3. Lane Width (m)                        3.50               3.50
4. Number of Lanes                       4                  2
5. Additional Lanes
Emergency Stopping                  2.50               -
Lane Width (m)
Climbing Lane Width (m)             3.00               3.50
Passing Lane Width (m)             -                   3.50
6. Shoulder Width (m)                    3.25          Variable
according
to terrain
(0.75-3.25)
7. Desirable Minimum                  300                 120
Horizontal Radius (m)
8. Minimum Crest                    6,000               3,000
Vertical Radius (m)
9. Minimum Sag                      3,000               2,200
Vertical Radius (m)
10. Maximum Single Axle                  13                 13
Load (m tons)
11. Type of Wearing                  Surface             Surface
Course                          Treatment           Treatment


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning May 15, 1981
through   November 15, 1993                  1,540,000
On May 15, 1994                                   1,460,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.45%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                              2.90%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              5.30%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                             7.25%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                             8.20%


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works shall
be procured in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975
(hereinafter called the Guidelines) including the provisions of
the General Introduction thereto, on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.   Bidders for the works and for production of aggregates and
bituminous materials included in Part A of the Project shall
be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the
Guidelines.
3. Comparison of bids for civil works shall be undertaken in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Borrower and the
Bank.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1. Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified applicants, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any


﻿- 23 -
applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower
to the Bank before the applicants are notified of the Borrower's
decision, and the Borrower shall make such modifications as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to every contract:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications
and other bidding documents and any subsequent modifications
thereof, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications
in the said documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report prepared by its competent ministry on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 24 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


