RESTRICTED
Report No. P-472
FILE COPY
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
FOR THE
SECOND ROAD PROJECT
March 23,- 1966



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AID DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOP11l1ENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE- EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
FOR THE SECOND ROAD PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US" 2.1 million to
the Republic of Paraguay.
PART I: HISTORICAL
2.        In August 1964 the Government of Paraguay requested the Bank to
consider granting a loan for the improvement and paving of a 43 kilometer
road from Coronel Oviedo to Villarrica to serve an important agricultural
area of Southeastern Paraguay.
3.        A Bank Mission appraised this project in November/Decenber  1965
and recormnended a Bank loan of US';; 1.5 million for this purpose. The same
Mission examined the progress of a roa;d and agricultural survey in South-
eastern Paraguay being carried out with assistance from the United Nations
Development Program for wqhich the Bank is executing agent. The iission
found that the survey was advancing rapidly. An interim report on the
identification of the zones (and of the roads to serve them)) which the
Bank received in February presented a good prima facie case for the construction
of about 800 kilometers of roads to permit the development of the selected
zones. The survey should be completed by September 1966. In order to
assure the continuity of the development of selected zones the Paraguayan
Government requested that the proposed loan be increased to cover the foreign
exchange costs of feasibility studies and final engineering of about 400
kilometers of all-weather roads out of the 800 kilometers referred to above.
4.        Negotiations for the proposed loan began in Washington on March 1,
1966. The Government of Paraguay was represented by Dr. Juan Plate,
Paraguayan Ambassador to the United States and Mr. Oswaldo Sitjar, General
Director of Highways.
5.        The summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits to Paraguay
as of February 28, 1966 is included in my report No. P-473 of this same
date.



-2-
PART II: DESCRTIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
6.        Borrower:                  Republic of Paraguay.
Amount:                    The equivalent in various currencies
of US]j 2.1 million.
Purpose:                   To assist in financing the improvement
and pavement of a 43 kilometer road
from Coronel Oviedo to Villarrica and
feasibility studies and final engineering
of about 400 kilometers of all-weather
roads in Southeastern Paraguay.
Term and Amortization:     20 years (including a 5 year period
of grace); 31 semi-annual repayments
beginning on February 15, 1971 and
ending on February 15, 1986.
Interest Rate:             6 per cent per annum.
Commitment Charge:         3/8 of 1% per annum.
Payment Dates:             February 15 and August 15.
PART III: THE PROJECT
7.        An Appraisal Report entitled Second Road Project (TO 524-a) is
attached.
8.        The proposed project consists of two independent parts:
PART A: the improvement and pavement of the 43 km. road from
Coronel Oviedo to Villarrica;
PART B:  feasibility studies and final engineering of about 400
kms. of secondary all-weather roads in Southeastern Paraguay.
9.        The existing road from Coronel Oviedo, built some 20 years ago,
does not nrovide reliable access to the Villarrica area. It is closed to
traffic during and after heavy rains (about 40 days a year) to avoid permanent
damage. The improvement to be made would consist of (1) removing the un-
satisfactory base course, compacting the subgrade, and building a new base to
be protected by a six meter wide asphalt surface; and (2) replacing timber
bridge spans by permanent concrete structures.
10.       Villarrica is the center of the second most important economic
region in Paraguay with about 400.000 hectares of excellent crop and pasture
land. The railroad connecting Villarrica with Asuncion is in bad condition



- 3 -
and is likely to be abandoned in the near future; and the projected road
would then be the only reliable ineans of transport serving the region. It
is estimated that the project would generate savings in the form of reduction
in vehicle operating cost which would produce a rate of economic return of
12%. In addition, there are other direct and indirect benefits which cannot
be quantified readily such as the stimulus to furthering agricultural production
provided by an all-weather transport link to the national road network.
11.       The survey of Southeastern Paraguay financed by the U.N.D.P.(SF)
is divided into three phases: (1) aerial photography, (2) identification of
the most suitable areas for colonization and tentative location of roads to
serve the area and (3) closer study of the selected area and final planning
of the appropriate road network. Phases 1 and 2 are complete and phase 3
should be completed in September 1966. The network proposed in ph1ase 2
includes two all-weather secondary roads (about 400 kms.) traversing the
selected area; the exact location of these roads would be determined in
phase 3.
12.       The National Directorate of Highwvjays, in the 1,iinistry of Public
Works, will be responsible for carrying out the project with the assistance
of engineering consultants. The Directorate is capably managed, well
organized and adequately staffed and therefore highway administration is
generally satisfactory. Consulting engineers for the supervision of Part
A have already been selected by the Government.  The construction contract
for Part A will be awarded on the basis of international competition.
13.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $ 2.8 million of
which the foreign exchange component to be financed by the Bank loan is
estimated at 75%.  The Government would provide USA 700,000 equivalent for
the local currency cost from a special 5% surcharge on imports which is
earmarked for use on roads financed by the Bank or IDA. This source should
be sufficient to cover all local costs in the first (IDA Credit 12-PA and
Bank Loan 396-PA) and second projects.
PART IV: LEGAL INSTRIMENTS AND AUTHORITY
14.       The draft Loan Agreement as well as the reDort of the Comittee
provided for in Article III Section h (iii) of the Articles of Agreement
of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
15.       The draft Loan Agreemient follows the general pattern of loan
agreement for similar projects. The following provisions are of special
interest:
a) In Section 5.10, the Borrower undertakes to adequately
maintain its main roads.
b) In Section 5.11, the Borrower agrees to limit the
dimensions and axle-loads of vehicles using its main
roads.



16.          The Loan Agreement would be submitted, after signature, to the
legislature of Paraguay for approval. In order to enable the Government to
seek this approval a period until July 31, 1966 has been allowed for the
fulfillment of the conditions of effectiveness of the loan.
PART V: THE ECONOMTY
17.          A review of the economic situation is included in my report
numbered P-4,73 of this same date on the proposed development credit for the
second livestock project. As stated in that report Paraguay is creditworthy
for modest amounts of Bank lending, preferably with extended periods of
grace. Hence the grace period for the proposed loan is 5 years instead of
the 3 years which would be justified on project grounds alone.
PART VI: COMPLIANCE WITH THE ARTICLES O' AGRIEI4TT
18.          I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII: RECCIEIMNJDATION
19.          I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION No.
Approval of Loan to Republic of Paraguay (Second
Road Project) in the amount of US43 2.1 million
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Republic of Paraguay in
an amount in various currencies equivalent to two million one hundred
thousand United States dollars ($ 2,100,000), to mature on and prior to
February 15, 1986, to bear interest at the rate of six percent (6%) per
annun, and to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be substan-
tially in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the form of
Loan Agreement (Second Road Project) between the Republic of Paraguay and
the Bank which has been presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
Washington, D. C.
March 23, 1966
Attachments



