                          Document of
                      The World Bank




                                                         Report No: 29424

           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                          (IDA-28990)

                             ON A

                            CREDIT

IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 21.5 MILLION (US$31.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                            TO THE

               UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA

                            FOR A

        NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT II




                          June 22, 2004

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective November 2003)

                                  Currency Unit = Tanzanian Shilling (Tsh.)
                                          1 Tsh. = US$ .001
                                          US$ 1 = 1,018 Tsh.

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                        July 1 - June 30

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASDP     Agriculture Sector Development Program
BEO      Block Extension Officer (Zanzibar)
BMW      Bi-Monthly Workshop
BTS      Bi-Monthly Training Sessions
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBO      Community-Based Organization
DALDO    District Agriculture & Livestock Development Officer
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
DESC     District Extension Steering Committee
DMT      District Management Team
FAMO     Farmer Motivator
FEPU     Farmers Education and Publicity Unit
FFS      Farmer Field School
FRG      Farmer Research Group
GOT      Government of the United Republic of Tanzania
GOZ      Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Association
IFAD     International Fund for Agriculture Development
IPPM     Integrated Pest and Production Management
IT       Information Technology
KATI     Kizimbani Agriculture Training Institute (Zanzibar)
LGA      Local Government Authority
LITI     Livestock Training Institute
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MAC      Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
MAFS     Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security
MANREC   Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources, Environment and Cooperatives in Zanzibar
MATI     Ministry of Agriculture Training Institute
MCM      Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing
MOU      Memorandum of Understanding
MTS      Monthly Training Sessions
MTR      Mid-Term Review
MWLD     Ministry of Water and Livestock Development
NAEPII   National Agriculture Extension Project Phase II
NALERP   National Agriculture and Livestock Extension Rehabilitation Project
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NGO      Non-Government Organization
PMU      Project Management Unit

PORALG   President's Office Regional Administration and Local Government
PSC      Project Steering Committee
RALDO    Regional Agriculture and Livestock Development Officer
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SDR      Special Drawing Right
SHERFSP  Southern Highlands Extension and Rural Financial Services Project
SMS      Subject Matter Specialist
SUA      Sokoine University of Agriculture
T&V      Training and Visit
VEO      Village Extension Officer
WEO      Ward Extension Officer
WDC      Ward Development Committee
ZCC      Zonal Communication Centre




                               Vice President:      Callisto Madavo
                             Country Director       Judy O'Connor
                              Sector Manager        Karen Mcconnell Brooks
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:            Mohammed Taqi Sharif

                                          TANZANIA
                NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT II


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29
Annex 8. Institutional Framework and Operations of Extension Services            30
Annex 9. Experience of NAEP II Pilot Initiatives Component                       36
Annex 10. Footnotes                                                              40
Annex 11. 2003 Beneficiary Assessment - Summary of Results                       41
Annex 12. Executive Summary of Government of Tanzania ICR                        43
Annex 13. Summary of Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar ICR                    54

Project ID: P002753                                                  Project Name: NAT EXT PROJ PH.II
Team Leader: Mohammed Taqi Sharif                                    TL Unit: AFTS1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 23, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: NAT EXT PROJ PH.II                                       L/C/TF Number: IDA-28990
   Country/Department: TANZANIA                                                           Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Sub-national government administration (82%); Agricultural
                            extension and research (18%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Decentralization (S);
                            Participation and civic engagement (S); Other public sector
                            governance (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/14/1995                                     Effective: 10/08/1996                10/08/1996
     Appraisal: 02/09/1996                                         MTR: 12/21/1998                  12/12/1999
      Approval: 07/11/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT/MIN OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             V.E. Kimberley Jaycox
Country Director:               Judy M. O'Connor                               James W. Adams
Sector Manager/Director:        Karen Mcconnell Brooks                         Sushma Ganguly
Team Leader at ICR:             Mohammed Taqi Sharif                           Satish Kumar
ICR Primary Author:             David Ivory (FAO-CP) and
                                Malathi Jayawickrama


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes




Bank Performance and Borrower Performance are considered 'marginally' unsatisfactory.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Context. Agriculture accounts for about half of Tanzania's GDP and exports, and hence its performance
has a significant effect on output, income and poverty levels. Over the 1990s, agricultural trend growth
was 3.6 percent, compared to average annual agricultural growth rates of 2.9 and 2.1 percent in the 1970s
and 1980s (Tanzania, Accelerating Agricultural Growth and Poverty Reduction, Background CAS Note,
February 2004). Agricultural exports grew at an annual rate of over 7 percent per year, although this rate
has slowed in recent years due to declining world market prices. Food crop production has grown at about
the rate of population growth (2 percent) and accounts for roughly 65 percent of agricultural GDP, with
cash crops accounting for 10 percent. Tanzania has made significant progress towards the Government's
target of sustained annual agricultural growth of 5 percent. The five-year moving average agricultural
GDP growth rates were about 3.3 percent from 1991-2000, and 4.3 percent over 1999-2003.


                                               Five Year Average Agricultural GDP Growth Rates (%)
                                5.0



                                4.5
    (%)

       Rate                     4.0


           Growth               3.5

                 GDP

                                3.0


                    Agricultural2.5



                                2.0
                                 1991-5  1992-6    1993-7    1994-8     1995-9   1996-2000 1997-2001 1998-2002 1999-2003

                                                               Five Year Moving Average



Recent improvements in food crops have been attributed to technological change. NAEPII supported
advances in several of these crops--maize, the most important (accounting for over 20 percent of total
agricultural GDP) followed by rice/paddy, beans, cassava, sorghum, and wheat. Adoption of improved
varieties, especially in maize, and better land management practices have increased overall yields
substantially in recent years, to record annual average growth rates of around 4 percent for food crops.
Yet, Tanzania's productivity levels for a variety of agricultural crops are much lower than those observed
in other countries (Concept Note for the Tanzania Country Economic Memorandum, draft, June 10, 2004).
An International Food Policy Research Institute review in 2000 showed that Tanzania has a strong
comparative advantage in maize and rice/paddy, and all the traditional export crops (cashew, coffee,
cotton, tea, and tobacco). Improved productivity, through both technical efficiency and technological
change, will play a major role in increasing Tanzania's future agricultural output and income, and reducing
poverty. NAEPII was prepared and implemented in order to contribute to the ongoing process of
agricultural growth.




                                                                           - 2 -

Objectives. The project's objective was to "continue to improve the delivery of extension services to
smallholder farmers for increasing their incomes and productivity, while improving its relevance,
sustainability and cost effectiveness" (SAR, June 5, 1996). NAEPII sought to achieve this by continuing
the essential elements of the training and visit system (T&V) of agricultural extension introduced in earlier
projects, but with emphasis on a participatory farmer group approach, supported by more knowledgeable
extension staff and farmers, improved systems of information transfer to farmers, and pilot initiatives to
enhance technology transfer, extension management, input supplies and farmer empowerment.1/

NAEPII's design aimed to: (i) support efforts to reshape the role of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Cooperatives (MAC), limiting its core functions at central level to policy formulation, regulation, extension
and research, and to strengthen its extension service at the field level; (ii) increase participation and
enhance farmers' role in the generation and dissemination of technology; (iii) develop the human resource
base through the training of farmers and extension staff; and (iv) increase agricultural growth and
smallholder income.

These objectives reflected the Government's priorities, articulated in the National Agriculture and
Livestock Policy, and the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). Accelerating agricultural
growth, with emphasis on agricultural research and extension, livestock health and natural resources
management, is at the core of the Bank's strategy to support growth through poverty reduction.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The Regional Administration and Local Government Act of July 1997 was enacted a year after project
approval. Implementation responsibility for extension service delivery was transferred from MAC to the
Local Authorities (LAs) covering regional administrations, district, municipal and urban councils. This
resulted in the establishment of 119 autonomous district extension services and a reduced role for MAC.
Following the Mid-Term Review (MTR) in December 1999, the Bank and the Government reached
agreement on the need to amend the project's objectives in line with the Government's decentralization
strategy. The development objective was revised to "continue to improve the delivery of extension
services to smallholder farmers in the Borrowers territories by focusing on the enhancement of the
technical and administrative capacity of the LGAs to provide such extension services". This
significantly changed the emphasis of the original objective, from developing an extension system that
would directly result in increasing agricultural output and incomes of smallholders, to creating an
institutional arrangement that would better facilitate extension services. MAC was subsequently
restructured (in 2000) to form three separate ministries--Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security
(MAFS), Ministry of Water and Livestock Development (MWLD), and the Ministry of Cooperatives and
Marketing (MCM). In general, decentralization was viewed by the Bank as a positive move. The
restructuring of MAC, however, was unhelpful to support the decentralization process, as central
responsibility for, and contribution to, agriculture and livestock extension services was further split. The
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was amended on several occassions.2/

The project sought to achieve the revised objective through: (i) developing a Vision/Strategic Framework
for Extension for the next decade, consistent with the changed institutional landscape; (ii) identifying the
needs of selected LGAs (limited in geographic coverage) and building their administrative and technical
capacity to effectively deliver extension services; (iii) enhancing training for staff of these LGAs, and
farmers, on their roles in a participatory, demand-driven and decentralized extension delivery system; (iv)
developing a participatory, demand-driven extension system that would particularly respond to smallholder
needs through a variety of pilot initiatives; (v) ensuring the development of extension and technological
packages appropriate to poor farmers and women; and (vi) strengthening and enhancing extension support
for input supply and marketing, and organizing farmers to address these issues.



                                                       - 3 -

Original and Revised Project Scope. The original project focused on strengthening extension services of
MAC in the 16 regions supported under the National Agriculture and Livestock Extension Rehabilitation
Project (NALERP). The four remaining regions in mainland Tanzania were covered by the
IFAD-supported Southern Highlands Extension and Rural Financial Services Project (SHERFSP).

Following completion of SHERFSP in August 1999, NAEPII's geographic scope was expanded to cover
all 20 regions of mainland Tanzania. At restructuring in early 2000, the proposed focus of NAEPII was
only on 56 districts (out of 119 districts in the 20 regions of mainland Tanzania) identified for Agriculture
Extension Reform in the remaining time to project completion. In May 2000, the geographic scope was
further expanded to include the islands of Zanzibar, to enable the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar
(GOZ) to complete critical activities left unfinished by the phased-out IFAD-funded Smallholder Support
Project (1991-1997).

3.3 Original Components:
The original project had four components.

(a) Institutional Strengthening (US$15.7 million). This component sought to continue reorganizing and
strengthening the extension services of MAC headquarters and field services to strengthen districts' roles
and improve farmer linkages through: (i) increasing the number of full-time Subject Matter Specialists
(SMSs) and deploying them to district and lower levels; (ii) establishing a Project Steering Committee
(PSC) and District Extension Steering Committees (DESCs); (iii) retrenching unsuitable Village Extension
Officers (VEOs); (iv) establishing an M&E system; and (v) training M&E staff. The Project also planned
to provide vehicles, equipment and furniture, rehabilitation of some field offices, construction of a limited
number of residential houses, and cover operating costs of vehicles, field supervision and maintenance.

(b) Extension Education and Training (US$12.6 million). This component aimed to enhance the
effectiveness of technology transfer, create more effective farmer-extension-research linkages, develop
appropriate support to farming, and address gender issues in agriculture. NAEPII aimed to achieve this
through: (i) Staff Training, including formal education at degree and diploma level, short courses, refresher
courses, Bi-monthly Workshops (BMW) and Monthly Training Sessions (MTS) for field extension staff,
and local and overseas study tours and training; (ii) Farmer Training, including residential courses, on-site
training, farmer study tours, demonstrations and provision of extension materials for farmers; and (iii)
Training Support, including establishing a Training Coordination Committee (TCC) to finalize annual
training plans, review training curricula and progress, facilitate networking between training institutes, and
give directions for overall management of training support. The Project planned to finance training costs, a
needs assessment study, M&E operations, and training institutes, covering teaching aids, farm and office
equipment, audio-visual aids, and civil works for rehabilitating selected facilities.

(c) Communications Support (US$2.9 million). This component supported the government's strategy to
decentralize information management to the zonal level, to enable an effective response to area-specific
information needs of local farming communities, through: (i) establishing six Zonal Communication
Centers (ZCCs); (ii) reorganizing the MAC Field Extension and Publicity Unit (FEPU) in Dar es Salaam;
(iii) a needs assessment study for communications development; (iv) overseas and local training for selected
staff; and (v) technical assistance to train core ZCC staff. NAEPII planned to finance civil works,
communication support equipment, vehicles, materials production, and field visits.

(d) Pilot Initiatives (US$1.7 million). The Pilots attempted to improve extension management, technology
transfer, farmers-extension-research linkages, participation of other providers in extension delivery, seeds



                                                       - 4 -

production and input supply, farmer empowerment and gender impact. A Government task force identified
nine pilot initiatives at project appraisal, with additional initiatives to be identified during implementation.

3.4 Revised Components:
The restructured project retained the four original components. However, it reoriented activities and
reallocated budgets between components, to emphasize capacity building of extension services in the LGAs
under the first component (additional US$6.5 million allocated), and reduce support to extension education
and training, and communications, under the second and third components, respectively. Pilot initiatives
were expanded (an additional US$5.0 million). These changes applied to the 20 regions in mainland
Tanzania.

In Zanzibar, the change in project scope to include strengthening GOZ institutions required the allocation
of a separate budget (US$2.5 million) from the 'unallocated' category of NAEPII. GOZ's counterpart fund
contribution was US$100,000. While Zanzibar was not considered an additional component in the project
DCA, it was considered separately, for both convenience and political reasons, as it is in this ICR. This
component supported adaptive research on selected crops, improving human resource capacity of extension
staff and farmers, developing a more participatory extension system and improving institutional facilities.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was rightly predicated on the need to continue support for agricultural extension services
initiated under NALERP, but it did not internalize major policy and strategy changes regarding
decentralization. Although the SAR mentions that "Government initiatives under the civil service reform
program are aimed at decentralizing responsibilities and functions to the districts" (SAR, page 8), the
project was designed on the assumption that MAC would continue to control extension services from the
center. Given what was known at the time, the project design should have: (i) embraced decentralization
from the outset and been more proactive in the dialogue on decentralization; and (ii) incorporated some
flexibility in terms of institutional arrangements and the flow of funds. Consequently, the project design
became rapidly obsolete and required major restructuring after one year of implementation.

The project design exhibits an element of internal contradiction, retaining overall commitment to the T&V
system, but including features of participation and demand responsiveness suggesting doubts as to the
soundness of the T&V approach. During the period of project preparation, considerable debate was
occurring throughout the Bank and the developing world on the merits of T&V, in terms of impact, cost
effectiveness and sustainability.3/ During the early period of implementation of the project, the debate was
largely resolved through the completion of evaluative work by OED, documenting high cost and low
sustainability of the T&V system.4/ At the time of project design, however, senior and highly-placed
advocates of the T&V system discouraged project teams from rejecting T&V in favor of less centralized
and more demand-responsive approaches. Although the project files do not contain documentary evidence
of the debate with regard to this particular project, it is likely that the overall intellectual climate within the
Africa Region with regard to agricultural extension influenced project design, and led to retention of design
elements that were subsequently dropped during implementation.

The SAR does not include Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). The Memorandum of the President (MOP)
has an abbreviated and incomplete set of KPIs. A well-defined set of KPIs should have been set out at
preparation in order to guide the surveys conducted under NAEPII, especially the baseline and final
assessments, in gathering information needed to monitor project outcomes. At the time NAEPII was
approved, NALERP had been under implementation for eight years (although the ICR for NALERP was
completed only in May 26, 1998). The Bank had ample opportunity to incorporate the lessons emerging



                                                        - 5 -

under the previous project. These lessons included: the costly aspects of the T&V system; and the
importance of clearly identifying meaningful performance indicators. These lessons were not reflected in
the design of NAEPII. Thus, overall quality at entry is considered unsatisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Did NAEPII satisfactorily achieve its original objective of improving extension delivery to smallholder
farmers for increasing their productivity and incomes? A comprehensive assessment of project outcome is
difficult for several reasons including: (i) the weakness in KPIs noted above; (ii) the complexity in
separating the effects of NAEPII and other variables on farmer productivity and incomes; and (iii) the lack
of comparable information on the farmers' situation before and after the project in the four assessment
surveys conducted under NAEPII -- Baseline survey (1996), Beneficiary survey (1999), Household asset
surveys (2001) and the Final Beneficiary Assessment study (2003). These surveys evaluate different
populations of farmers, districts and villages in successive rounds, and lack the information needed to
evaluate outcomes in relation to objectives. Also, 2002-03 was a drought period, affecting overall national
yields and the Final Beneficiary Assessment data. Another factor was the change in project objectives upon
restructuring, which shifted emphasis to monitoring institutional capacity development rather than changes
in agricultural production in the latter years.

Given these limitations, a table of the main output and outcome indicators has been constructed in Annex 1,
and gives an indication of project achievements. Almost without exception, the adopted technological
packages as piloted by the micro projects led to more than doubling farm crop and livestock yields.
The ultimate impact on incomes, however, depended on the market situations. In most cases, notably
for seasonal and perishable goods (e.g. milk, vegetables and fruits), increased production resulted in lower
producer prices. Nevertheless, the reduced prices were more than compensated by the increased volume,
therefore leading to improved incomes. This emphasizes the need for extension agents to be able to advise
on marketing as well as on production. The quality of inputs also affected farmer incomes (see Lessons
from Experiences of NAEPII Micro Projects, and Beneficiary Assessment--Annexes 9 and 11 for details).

What is not in dispute is the fact that where farmers opted to use improved technological packages,
they experienced higher yields and better incomes, despite the setbacks mentioned above. Farmers gave
evidence of how the increased disposable income had helped them to:
        Invest in improved shelter;
        Invest in improved/local livestock and poultry;
        Buy assets such as transistor radios, bicycles, ox-carts and ox-ploughs;
        Afford to cater for school children needs (i.e.uniform, fees and books);
        Pay for better medical services;
        Get better balanced diets, thus reducing chances of illness in the family;
        Experience fewer months of food deficit than before; and
        Reduce debt levels and therefore lead a freer life.

Additionally some enterprises taken by women helped enhance their financial base and plan more
effectively to improve their family livelihoods.

Mainland Tanzania: Overall, the data suggest that the project enhanced delivery of extension services
to participating farmers. 89% of the 388 farmers surveyed in 2003 were aware of local availability of
extension services, 83% had obtained extension advice from VEOs/WEOs, 52% had received advice within
the last month, and 77% rated the advice as excellent. Farmer adoption of extension advice (timely land



                                                      - 6 -

preparation and planting, use of improved seeds and proper spacing, manure application, weeding), and
improved biological/environmental practices (post-harvest care, pesticide use) improved substantially
between 1996 and 2003. There was wide variation, however, in the adoption rates of various technologies
in cereal production. Although the awareness levels of improved practices were high, farmers were slow in
adopting them as some technologies were not sufficiently financially attractive.

The achievements under formal (24% of all field extension staff) and informal training (all staff received
various forms of training) of extension staff and farmers (90,000 received some form of training) would
also indicate significant capacity development of human resources. In the process of decentralization of
extension services to LGAs and the emphasis given to develop a more demand-driven system, the project
appears to have contributed to a more participatory agricultural extension service, where 45% of farmers
were involved in training of fellow farmers, and 45% wanted this to continue.

For Zanzibar, outcome assessments indicate that significant progress was made in building institutional
capacity (improved facilities and mobility of extension staff, short course training for extension staff),
empowering farmers (participatory training to identify and solve problems), and disseminating new
agricultural technologies (65% of surveyed farmers adopted extension messages, and 62-74% of farmers
adopted improved varieties of cassava, yams and sweet potatoes resulting in significant yield increases).

The approach to supervision of NAEPII strengthened linkages with other donors, and between research and
extension. Some joint missions were maintained with the Tanzania Agricultural Research Project II
(TARP II). These were important in forging closer research-extension linkages (particularly after
extension responsibility was removed from MAC). Joint contributions were established under some pilot
initiatives, whereby other donors (i.e. FAO and DANIDA), local church organizations, NGOs and CBOs
were involved in participatory extension activities.

Based on the improved capacity to deliver extension services through training, and the adoption of
extension advice and the resulting yield increases in the pilot areas, the project is rated satisfactory in
meeting its original objectives. In addition to productivity improvements, the project also contributed to
establishing a solid foundation on which to build an integrated approach to generation and dissemination of
agricultural technology in Tanzania, and the foundation is supporting further work within the context of the
Agricultural Sector Development Program (ASDP). Despite these obvious successes experienced by
farmers engaged in the pilot initiatives, however, there remains a challenge to ensure diffusion of
knowledge to the rest of the communities. This challenge is more to do with actual adoption rather than
knowledge dissemination. Widespread adoption was limited due to other factors such as small market size,
lack of input supplies, limited local marketing capacity, and lack of cash and credit. It is therefore
important to address barriers to enhancing technological adoptions. These are mostly related to credit
availability, marketing system, storage and transport infrastructure, all of which are addressed in the ASDP
under preparation and Participatory Agricultural Development and Empowerment Project (PADEP).

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Institutional Strengthening (US$15.7 million)
As part of the plan to reshape the role of the MAC, extension staff numbers, positions and locations were
rationalized. About 900 of the 4,725 underqualified VEOs were retrenched under termination agreements,
and many Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) redeployed from MAC and the regional offices to districts.
The transfer of SMSs, over a 3-year period, was slower than expected. An overall reduction in total
extension staff occurred as the retrenched staff were not replaced, as planned. The project achieved most
of the physical targets set for improving institutional facilities and purchase of equipment, vehicles,
motorcycles and bicycles for district extension staff, with some targets being exceeded (motorcycles and



                                                     - 7 -

computers).

The initial setup for administration and management of extension services was based on a line of command
from MAC through regional offices, to extension staff deployed at district level. However, with
devolvement of extension services to LGAs, overall responsibility for coordinating project implementation
moved from MAC to President's Office, Regional Administration and Local Government (PORALG),
previously called Ministry of Regional Administration and Local Government. Extension staff were then
placed under the administrative and management control of the district councils (DCs). The DCs, however,
were not prepared for this new arrangement, and there was considerable delay in establishing a functional
institutional framework for local extension services. At project completion, the institutional framework
for extension services had been reasonably well established in the LGAs, as the two-year extension
gave sufficient time for institutional development. A total of 5,835 extension workers are now deployed
at both district (1,110) and at village levels (4,725) to cover about 10,470 villages, and management and
operational structures have been established in the LGAs. However, staff employed occupy about 50% of
the designated positions, based on the GOT plan to have one extension worker per village. As discussed in
Annex 8, several factors continue to hinder the development of fully effective and efficient local extension
services. These include: the continued staff deployment within districts according to the T&V system; the
ineffectiveness of having a SMS cadre in district headquarters; lack of upgrading of educational skills of
many staff; inadequacies in transport availability; and low staff morale linked to lack of promotional
opportunities.

A GOT Task Force on Agriculture Extension Reform prepared the draft Vision for Extension for 2010,
which was discussed in two workshops in November 2000 and March 2001. The final report was
distributed to key zonal and district stakeholders in June 2001. By project end, however, it was apparent
that the full acceptance and absorption of the elements of, and implementation strategy for, this vision into
the district, ward and village level had not been achieved. Although an M&E unit and some M&E capacity
had been established under NALERP, it was not fully functional. NAEPII has supported the strengthening
of the M&E Unit in MAFS by providing technical assistance, computers and motorcycles, staff training,
and operational funds. The Unit has national responsibility for monitoring and evaluating extension
performance, and has undertaken regular information collection on project implementation and farmer
output, and the production of impact assessments of extension. However, local data collection was
hindered as M&E units had not been established in the LGAs. Also, the limitations of the KPIs restricted
the development of an effective M&E system. Establishing functional M&E units at the district level,
developing an appropriate framework of indicators and M&E operations, and linking the district M&E
units to the national M&E Unit remains a challenge.

The project established a Zonal Research and Extension Liaison Office to improve communication linkages
between research and extension. Functioning farmer-research-extension linkages have also been obtained
through the establishment of joint zonal technical committees, regional workshops, agricultural shows, and
formation of farmer groups. At the field level, this is attained through joint participation of researchers,
extension agents and farmers in farmer field schools (FFS), on-farm research, and pilot initiatives.
However, the separation of research (controlled by a national-level agency) from extension (in LGAs) has
created a need to strengthen units and groups, such as the zonal research-extension liaison office, regional
agriculture and livestock advisors, and ZCCs, to maintain effective research-extension linkages.

Component 2: Extension Education and Training (US$12.6 million)
Although the project achieved significant upgrading of educational levels and technical knowledge of
extension staff, through the graduate (17) and post-graduate (54) training program for selected SMSs
at Sokoine University of Agriculture, it did not fully achieve the targets, partly as a result of project


                                                       - 8 -

restructuring. The plan to upgrade WEO and VEO certificate holders with a one-year upgrade course fell
short of the initial targets (650 out of 800) due to reallocation of training funds to component 4. However,
it benefited from the development of a new diploma curriculum and introduction of two-year diploma level
(405) training at Ministry of Agriculture Training Institutes (MATIs) and Livestock Training Institutes
(LITIs). The Government has indicated their plan to continue support for formal training to enable all staff
to be better trained. Extension staff have also benefited greatly from a range of shorter-term formal and
informal training. About 1,095 staff received informal training through study tours (special tours for
VEOs and inter-regional and international tours). In addition, on-the-job training covered upgrading
technical and practical skills (group working, participatory extension, communication and facilitation
development). There remains a continuing need for technical training of extension staff. Regular technical
training programs (BMWs and MTSs) halted part-way through the project, leaving a void in the transfer of
technical information to WEOs and VEOs. Extension newsletters, started under NAEPII and discontinued
due to lack of funds, also need to be reactivated. Regular specific needs-based and seasonal technical
training for WEOs and VEOs needs to be introduced.

Outcome indicators would suggest that the knowledge and skills of farmers have improved
considerably. Large numbers of farmers benefited from residential (4,332) and on-site (37,179) training
and from study tours (1,417). Extension messages and recommended technologies were also promoted to
farmers through demonstrations (140,521) and media materials (print, radio and video) produced under the
third component. Training institutions (Sokoine University of Agriculture, eight MATIs, four LITIs, the
Kizambani Agriculture Training Institute--Zanzibar, and several Farmer Training Schools) received
assistance to improve their capacity to provide appropriate training, through purchase of training aids and
equipment and from rehabilitation of facilities.

Component 3: Communications Support (US$2.9 million)
The Farmers Education and Publicity Unit (FEPU) in Dar es Salaam was strengthened through: the
purchase of equipment to improve the production of print media and in-house production of video and radio
media; and the purchase of two media vans, public address systems and one vehicle, to enhance their
capacity to disseminate information. While the target was also to strengthen six out of the seven ZCCs
throughout the mainland (a ZCC was established for the southern highlands zone under SHERFSP), only
two centers (Arusha and Morogoro) received significant assistance under NAEPII. This was a
consequence of the agreement to place the ZCCs under the directors of the Zonal Research Stations as part
of activities under the TARP II. Close collaboration between the FEPU and ZCCs was achieved in the
collection of information and production of media materials. Numerous booklets, newsletters, brochures,
radio programs (703) and video programs (2-3 per year) were produced. Three staff received specialized
overseas training. However, a new era in information and IT transfer systems has made the FEPU video
and audio production systems rather obsolete. Given the importance of communication of extension
information in a decentralized extension service, where the ratio of clients to providers is high, there is a
need to further upgrade and develop communications support at national and zonal level, develop IT
networks to district offices, and establish the capacity of LGAs to reproduce local media materials for
farmers.

Component 4: Pilot Initiatives (US$1.7 million)
A total of 35 pilot initiatives were conducted, to test ways of improving: (i) extension management and
enhancing technology transfers and adoptions; (ii) farmer-extension-research linkages; (iii) the role of the
private sector, CBOs and NGOs; and (iv) empowerment of farmers, including women. This component
successfully achieved improvements in all the above aspects, and significantly increased agricultural
production and incomes for participating farmers as noted above (and in Annex 9). Five initiatives
piloted alternative extension management methods with CBOs/NGOs providing various extension services,


                                                       - 9 -

using both farmer motivators (FAMOs) and extension workers, and the FFS approach as an alternative
delivery system for technology transfer. These pilots demonstrated that a pluralistic approach to providing
extension works well when public or alternative funds are available to NGOs/CBOs. Beyond the pilot
initiatives, the FFS approach was piloted in 16 districts, where about 160 field schools were established,
with another 200 FFSs planned for another 36 districts. Various stakeholders regard the FFS approach as a
cost-effective method of extension, as it combines the virtues of farmer participation, responding to farmer
demands, involving farmers in financial contribution, as well as creating an ideal link between farmers,
extension and research.

Some pilot initiatives encouraged the private sector to provide farm input supplies. The initial approach
for an input supply guarantee scheme was discontinued after realizing it was not conducive to the
spontaneous growth of a competitive market/trade. Instead, the project facilitated only those schemes that
supported capacity building for the operators to use their own resources and provide credit at market rates.
Farmers, individually and in groups/societies/cooperatives, were also successfully involved in the
multiplication of foundation seeds for subsequent distribution and sale to other farmers. One initiative
demonstrated that it was feasible for a grassroots institution to combine extension advice/training, and also
provide farm inputs to their members. Several pilot initiatives transferred workable technological packages
to farmers, such as mechanized farming (ox-drawn implements and power tillers), irrigation farming, water
harvesting/dams, horticulture farming and animal health. Generally, these initiatives significantly increased
crop and livestock production and net farm incomes. These results reinforce the importance of farmer
group dynamics, integrated approaches in introducing new technologies, access to credit and savings
mobilization, the timely supply of quality inputs, and assured markets for farm produce.

Zanzibar Component
Although project implementation in Zanzibar was not officially considered as a separate project
component, the management, budget allocation, budget expenditure and project activities were autonomous
under the GOZ. As noted above, this component achieved significant progress in building institutional
capacity, empowering farmers, and disseminating new technologies. The civil works were achieved as
planned. This included construction of seven residential staff houses, a student dormitory, the
establishment of training farms, and procurement of vehicles and equipment. A total of 144 staff were
trained in various disciplines. A total of 11,082 farmers were trained through well-established FFSs,
Farmers Research Groups, field days, study tours, on-farm demonstrations and the provision of media
materials. The project also supported crop research programs in banana, root crops and legumes. These
initiatives increased crop production and farm incomes. The Zanzibar component also helped forge a
closer working relationship between the agricultural staff of GOT and GOZ.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Extension is greatly concerned with the adoption of technology. Although many studies conduct ex-post
evaluations of extension, they shed little light on the net benefits of extension. Research shows that even in
ex-post evaluations, it requires a comparative approach along two dimensions -- 'before and after' the
project, and 'with and without' the project. Most studies of developing countries evaluate extension through
a simple before and after comparison of crop yields. They do not, however, evaluate the contribution of
extension to increases in output, as it is almost impossible to separate the effects of other variables such as
material inputs, soil quality and supply constraints that are likely to influence adoption and output.

Since farmers are slow to adopt new technologies (compared to their awareness levels), increases in
adoption rates observed during NAEPII may well have been a result of extension services provided under
NALERP. Benefits of the institutional and training components are also difficult to quantify in monetary
terms. The approach adopted in the SAR was to identify the "minimum incremental benefit stream" that



                                                      - 10 -

would justify the investment the government extension service, and then under an "incremental adoption"
model, see whether the project would, under a reasonable set of assumptions, produce the desired minimum
benefit stream. This ICR follows the incremental adoption analysis to recalculate the Economic Rate of
Return (ERR) over a 20-year period from 1996, using actual/observed yields and area increases, prices and
costs from 1996-2003 (Annex 3).

If 100% of the observed yield increase (on the part of the 11% of farmers assumed influenced by the
project) for each crop is attributed to the project, the benefit-cost ratio (B/C) at a discount rate of 12% is
1.529, and the internal rate of return (IRR) is 23%. If, however, we assume that NAEPII contributes to
only 50% of the yield increase under each crop, then B/C and IRR decrease to 0.765 and 6% respectively.
Thus, the IRR can be assumed to lie within the interval bounded by 6% and 23%.

The Final Beneficiary Assessment attempts to capture, through proxies, the effects of NAEPII on
variables that are difficult to quantify in monetary terms, and are excluded in the ERR calculation. These
include the quality of housing, food security, family health and the ability to pay for medical care, and
household expenditure levels. Overall, there have been some positive changes in indicators related to
quality of housing, ownership of capital-intensive assets, and expenditure levels on household basic needs
(Annex 11).

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial rate of return is not calculated separately.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Given the Government's decision to decentralize, the ICR concludes that the project contributed
toward establishing a working decentralized extension service, although the process of institutional
change and strengthening is still under way. Institutionally, a functioning extension service has been
established in all districts of mainland Tanzania, but appears not yet to have achieved full functionality due
to delays in effectively transferring administrative (and hierarchical) responsibility from MAC (and
thereafter 3 ministries) to the LGAs. In addition, the coordination and linkages between district extension
services are weak. While there remains a need to improve the quality of extension services in the
LGAs, staff are better trained, both in terms of their technical knowledge and their understanding and
ability to undertake/provide a more farmer-responsive form of extension service. The decentralization
process cast doubt on the appropriateness of the staffing and operational structure under T&V--its costly
and hierarchical system of staff deployment and management, particularly given the small staffing cadre of
each district service, and the anticipated influence of the private sector. ASDP, through its sector-wide
framework for overseeing institutional reforms and investment priorities, is addressing these concerns and
taking reforms a step further, through support at local and national level, and for cross-cutting and
cross-sectoral issues. Annex 8 gives a comprehensive assessment of the project's institutional development
impact.

Farmers are also more knowledgeable and have improved their abilities to analyze their farming
situation in a participatory manner, and be more self-reliant in developing and improving agricultural
production. Although only tested to a limited extent under the project, it would seem that a more
pluralistic system of extension provision is possible, and farmers can become effective advocates for their
own needs with regard to advisory services.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
A significant outside factor that affected project outcome was the severe deterioration in the terms of trade



                                                      - 11 -

for agriculture, particularly export crops. Coffee, cashew, cotton, tobacco and tea account for 80 percent
of Tanzania's agricultural export revenues. Export unit values fell sharply since 1995, especially for cotton
and coffee. Export earnings of all crops, which increased from the early- to the mid-1990s, due to the
initial impact of marketing liberalization and rising international prices, declined after 1995, partly due to
falling international commodity prices (Tanzania's Coffee Sector, June 2003).

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The devolution of extension services to the LGAs within one year of project start-up necessitated
restructuring of the project, but had a positive impact on the performance of extension. The institutional
restructuring of central line ministries responsible for agricultural extension services likewise necessitated
changes in the project, but did not contribute on balance to more effective management of extension or of
the sector. The latter further divided and added complexity to extension service support for agriculture and
livestock. There also appeared to be a general lack of support given, or urgency shown, by the Government
to complete the transfer and establishment of a fully-operational devolved extension service. Additionally,
the Government did not release counterpart funds to the project from mid-1999 to end-2000.

Another factor that affected project outcome was the ban imposed by the GOT (up to 2002), for national
food security reasons, on the export of foodgrains to neighboring countries experiencing periodic large food
deficits. This denied farmers the opportunity of selling agricultural produce at favorable prices.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The original institutional arrangement for implementing the project was through a PSC placed within MAC
and DESCs in each district. This operated until 1999/2000. After restructuring, it was planned that the
roles of the DESCs would be taken over by District Management Teams (DMTs) and Ward Development
Committees (WDCs) under the Local Government Reform Program. It is apparent that the DMTs, which
were responsible for all sector activities (and not only agriculture), have not yet effectively assumed the
roles of the DESCs, and therefore left a vacuum in adequate provision of management guidance and
oversight to project implementation in the districts.

With devolvement of responsibility for extension services, MAC no longer had administrative control of
field extension staff and their activities. At the same time, the LGAs had no institutional arrangement in
place to assume responsibility for extension services or to implement NAEPII. Significant delays in setting
up the necessary institutional arrangements for the decentralized operation of extension services by the
LGAs (80 LGAs at that time), led to restricted or even stalled project activities and problems with project
fund disbursements. Furthermore, although the original project design was to transfer all SMSs to field
positions, slow transfers of staff (mostly due to personal reasons) and low staff morale within this cadre,
also contributed adversely to project implementation. Eventually (November 1998), MAC provided
detailed guidelines for management of agricultural extension for the district and municipal councils, but at
this time MAC could neither issue administrative instructions to the DCs to implement NAEPII, nor
establish financial arrangements for funding the DCs for implementing the project.

The key factors that allowed the project to achieve several of the revised targets and meet objectives were
that the responsibility for many of the activities (education, training, communications and M&E) remained
with the PSC and PMU (later to become a Project Coordinating Unit) in MAFS. Over the extended life of
the project, as administrative authority decentralized, the project was able to continue to work through
MAFS to provide capacity building and training for agents in the districts. In addition, the pilots became
relatively more important after the restructuring and contributed to meeting the objectives.

The inclusion of the Zanzibar component led to the establishment of a separate steering committee (Project



                                                      - 12 -

Technical Committee) and Project Management Unit (PMU) in MANREC, without disruption or adverse
effects on the institutional changes on the mainland and restructuring of project objectives.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Project costs. The total project cost, including contingencies, was estimated at US$32.94 million (Tsh.
22.07 billion equivalent) over five years. Foreign costs were estimated at US$10.7 million. The project
was effective on October 8, 1996, with closure originally scheduled for December 31, 2001. The project
closed on December 31, 2003, after two one-year extensions. Project disbursements continued until
end-April 2004. Actual total project cost over approximately 7 years was US$30.61 million, representing
92.9% of the original total cost estimate. Although 98.4 percent of the Credit was expended, the
lower-than-predicted total cost is due to changes in the exchange rate between the SDR and US dollar.

Project Financing. An IDA Credit of SDR21.5 million (US$31.1 million equivalent) was approved on
July 11, 1996, with counterpart funds of US$1.8 million to be provided by GOT. With the introduction of
the Zanzibar component, a further US$0.1 million was to be provided by GOZ. IDA credit disbursements
totaled SDR21.15 million (US$28.24 million equivalent) on April 30, 2004, the last date for approval of
credit disbursement, leaving SDR350,415.0 undisbursed. These funds will be cancelled. Total counterpart
contributions were US$2.25 million and US$0.12 million from GOT and GOZ respectively.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Institutional sustainability. The LGAs appreciate the importance of agricultural development to the rural
and national economy, and in discussions with executive directors, all expressed continuing financial and
operational support for agricultural extension services from their own budget resources.5/ According to
the Local Government Act, extension is a mandatory function of the LGAs. In addition, GOT has verbally
assured its commitment to completing the training program for extension staff (as about 1,140 certificate
and 2,000 diploma holders did not receive training under NAEPII), so that eventually the majority of staff
will receive diploma or degree level training. The line ministries (MAFS and MWLD) are also committed
to support extension activities through provision of development budget funding to the LGAs. While these
ministries are institutionally separated from the decentralized agricultural extension services, they can exert
a significant influence on agricultural development priorities and activities for districts and regions, through
development budget allocations to the LGAs. There is reasonable assurance that the decentralized
institutional arrangement and operation of extension services supported under NAEPII will be sustained,
since the ASDP incorporates continued commitment to decentralized and demand-driven extension services.
The Zanzibar component supported and strengthened an existing integrated research and extension system,
and therefore remains sustainable. Representatives from Zanzibar are participating in design of the ASDP.


Extension system sustainability. The sustainability of the extension system also seems likely. While there
are measures that need to be taken to improve management and operational functionality (Annex 8), the
more demand-driven system of extension achieved, whereby farmers are trained and take leadership in
defining extension needs and promotion to fellow farmers, is expected to continue. The greater involvement
of other extension providers (CBOs/NGOs and private sector), although still embryonic, appears likely to
be more widely adopted. The expectation is that farmers will become more self-sufficient in financing
extension services. Because the majority of farmers still practice subsistence agriculture, there remains a
great need for the public sector to continue financing extension services, although service delivery will not
be restricted to the public sector.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:



                                                    - 13 -

Considerable variation exists between districts in their staffing levels, facilities, and priorities to support
agricultural development. While all districts received some support under NAEPII, only 56 districts
received significant support. Generally, it seems that the LGAs intend to continue to finance the basic
operations of extension services. It is unclear, however, to what extent they will be able to finance further
development of physical facilities, transport needs and field operations to an adequate standard for effective
operations of district services. As indicated previously, the intention of the central government is to provide
additional development funds to districts to support extension operations, and to continue responsibility to
complete the upgrading of extension staff qualifications through formal education.

Future Development. The draft proposal for a new program (Agriculture Services Support Program)
under the Agriculture Sector Development Program that will continue to support extension, research and
other agricultural services is well advanced. The findings of this ICR will be relevant to the further
formulation of this program.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project was formulated in cooperation with the Government during the latter stages of NALERP. As
discussed in section 3.6, however, the quality at entry is considered unsatisfactory. The Bank's
contribution to project preparation is also considered unsatisfactory.

Decentralization of extension services to the LGAs was initiated in 1997 with the Bank supporting this
policy initiative. Over about an 18-month period during 1998-99, implementation had stalled due to slow
redeployment of extension staff and slow establishment of the necessary institutional arrangements to set up
effective extension services in the LGAs. Implementation progress was first rated unsatisfactory in
October 1998 (and continued to be rated unsatisfactory by the Bank until December 2000). Not until early
2000, however, following a one-year delayed MTR in December 1999, was the project
restructured/reoriented. The project should have been restructured at an earlier date. Although the project
clearly offered valuable training and capacity building for the agents newly devolved to the district level
and lower, the project did not appear to offer appreciable assistance to PORALG and LGAs in rapidly
assuming their new roles. In hindsight, one can argue that the new project design should have better
reflected the new decentralized institutional arrangements for extension services in the LGAs with
transferred responsibility to PORALG, and been focused on building institutional capacity in PORALG
and the LGAs. Hindsight cannot tell us, however, whether alternative approaches would have been more
effective.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank fielded thirteen regular supervision missions during the 7-year period. Missions were regular,
although project records show only two missions between December 1998 and July 2000, a very critical
juncture for the project. During these decisive stages of devolution of extension services and associated
institutional changes, the Bank should have been more pro-active in dealing with the problems of
implementation. The reports of the supervision missions generally provided a comprehensive review of
implementation progress and clearly indicated what follow up actions were required in future
implementation activities. Bank performance in implementation of the restructured project is considered
satisfactory, although, over the entire life of the project, Bank performance in supervision is unsatisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated (marginally) unsatisfactory, in light of poor quality at entry,
unnecessary delay in redesigning the project, and possible missed opportunities in the redesign of the



                                                      - 14 -

project. Satisfactory performance after the restructuring contributed to achievement of the objectives.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower was closely involved with project formulation over an 18-month period, during the latter
stages of NALERP, which was important to ownership and commitment to NAEPII. As discussed in
sections 3.6 and 5.2, the borrower was fully aware of the impending decentralization, and shares in
responsibility for flawed design.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
As indicated previously, several government actions significantly affected implementation. The legislation
of the Regional Administration and Local Authorities Act in 1997 effectively created 119 autonomous
district extension services from a single, centrally-administered, national extension service. Overall
responsibility for coordinating project implementation was supposed to move to PORALG, but didn't. At
this time, the capacity within MRALG and the LGAs was weak, and there was an absence of a
Vision/Strategic Framework for Extension in a decentralized extension system. Furthermore, the
Government decided to continue to undertake extension activities financed under NAEPII in all districts,
rather than concentrate efforts on the 56 priority districts designated as Agriculture Extension Reform
districts, as recommended at the MTR and by the Bank.

The Government requested that the geographic scope of the project be expanded to include four more
regions on the mainland, and to include Zanzibar. Implemented at a time of major institutional changes,
these decisions may have spread project resources further, and had implications on project outcome. In
2001, MAC was restructured into three new ministries, whereby the central responsibilities for oversight of
agricultural extension were split between the MAFS and MWLD, which increased the complexity of
support and coordination. The restructuring of ministries that followed the election of a new Government
enhanced coordination problems in the sector. It is also apparent that the Government should have been
more proactive in assisting the transitional process. Therefore, government implementation performance is
considered unsatisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
At project effectiveness, extension services were unified under a single agency, MAC. The Government
established the institutional arrangements for management and implementation of the project under a PSC,
overseeing a Project Management Unit in MAC, which was linked to DESCs in the districts. Funds were
routed from the PMU to the districts through the regional offices, and the Regional Agriculture and
Livestock Development Officer (RALDO) coordinated the activities of extension staff in the districts.
Performance was satisfactory in the first year or so of implementation.

Through the middle years, overall implementation performance was weak. Although responsibility for
activities crucial to success of the project moved to the aegis of PORALG with decentralization, much of
the responsibility for implementation of project activities (education, training, communications and M&E)
remained with the PSC and PMU in MAC, with a representative from PORALG included in the PSC.
Implementation activities at the district level, faced major problems. After decentralization, the districts
received funds directly to cover normal recurrent expenditure for extension operations, and the Zonal
Research and Extension Officer was the main link between MAC headquarters and the districts. While
MAC assisted with preparation of new job descriptions for agricultural sector staff in the LGAs, and
provided financial and accounting guidelines to the LGAs, the restructuring process was very slow.
Transferring implementation responsibility at the local level from the dissolved DESCs to the DMTs, and
establishing an effective institutional and financial arrangement in each district council for disbursements of



                                                      - 15 -

funds for project activities encountered substantial difficulties. Clearly, the long period required for this
transition adversely affected project implementation over a period of about two years. Although MAC
attempted to assist in the transition process, the overall result was generally unsatisfactory during this time.

The latter part of project implementation experienced satisfactory disbursement flows to the districts,
institutional arrangements for extension services were established, and many of the revised activity targets
were achieved following the extensions, despite the continuing limitations in project management by the
DMTs. The IDA credit was also nearly expended, and the Borrower had provided more than its scheduled
contribution. The Borrower partially or completely complied with the covenant agreements.

Under the Zanzibar component, the separate steering committee (Project Technical Committee) and PMU
established in MANREC functioned satisfactorily in implementing the agreed activities, and despite its
separate autonomy, there appeared to be good coordination with implementation management on the
mainland.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Borrower performance is judged to be (marginally) unsatisfactory, based on the borrower's shared
responsibility for flawed quality at entry, lagged provision of counterpart funding for a period,
counter-productive restructuring of the agricultural ministries, and slow implementation of institutional
changes needed to make decentralization work. The generally satisfactory performance of the Borrower in
supervision after the restructuring allowed the project to meet its objectives, but is not sufficient grounds to
support a satisfactory rating overall.

8. Lessons Learned

The experience with NAEP II offers lessons with regard to project formulation and implementation
generally, and with regard to agricultural extension specifically. Key lessons are presented below.

Management of the World Bank must protect the intellectual space for staff members to disagree
professionally, and to act on their best professional judgment. NAEP II was designed during a period of
active debate about the future direction of support for agricultural extension. The Bank had historically
made a major investment in the Training and Visit system, but as early as 1989 doubts were beginning to
be expressed that the system was effective and affordable for poor countries (World Bank Technical Paper
#87, 1989). Empirical evaluative work launched by OED yielded convincing evidence in 1999 that in fact
the T&V system was of questionable efficacy and doubtful sustainability (see Footnotes 3 & 4 in Annex
10). During the period prior to the issuance of the OED report, an atmosphere prevailed in which junior
staff who had doubts about the T&V system could reasonably fear for their careers if they questioned the
strong advocacy for the system by a small number of highly-placed senior staff. The result was a
supression of internal professional debate to the detriment of the quality of project design and the interests
of our clients. [This lesson is the opinion of the Sector Manager, and not necessarily that of the primary
authors of the ICR.]

Key performance indicators should be defined during project preparation and monitored during
implementation. Documentation of impact and results is needed as a management tool during
implementation, and in order to secure continued public support for extension.

Design of follow-on projects should reflect lessons of prior projects. Lessons need not be those formally
noted in a completed ICR, but they should be incorporated in project design.




                                                     - 16 -

Prompt and determined restructuring in response to changes in the institutional framework and
country circumstance can keep a project on track to achieve its objectives. While restructuring was a
positive and important initiative, project outcome, especially institutional development, would have been
more substantial if restructuring had been earlier and the design better reflected the new institutional
arrangement.

Allocation of uncommitted funds, but for specific use, can enhance the flexibility of the project to
respond to changing conditions. Pilot initiatives were used successfully to focus on the development and
adoption of suitable technologies in local areas, as well as to create a multiplier effect in surrounding areas,
and to emphasize a participatory approach to development.

The decentralization of extension services to LGAs, combined with a move toward a participatory
demand-driven public and private extension system, improves the effectiveness and affordability of
services. The reform of extension services designed initially on the model of centralized T&V systems
follows a general pattern, and includes steps of creating a vision, aligning key stakeholders around it,
defining increased roles for private providers of service, reduced roles for the public sector, and changes in
staffing and flows of funds. Chronic underfunding of T&V systems may not have been detrimental to
aggregate economic performance. Once the systems have been reformed, however, and have greater
potential to deliver results, levels of funding should be adequate to operate them at the capacity
commensurate with design. The system of advisory services under the Agricultural Sector Development
Program will have to operate on a larger scale in the future in order to have an adequate impact on
productivity.

Continued public funding for agricultural extension is appropriate when the information conveyed has
features of a public good, and when the users of information are too poor to purchase optimal
quantities through private transactions. Public funding should be distinguished from public provision of
service. The project outcome emphasizes the importance of increasing the reach of extension services
through the creation of networks of supporting providers. This involves encouraging better trained and
more independent farmer groups, farmer motivators, NGOs and private sector groups to provide extension
services.

Effective production and communication of agricultural information is an important means to transfer
knowledge for production. Developing communication networks and extension materials requires greater
emphasis on acquiring modern information technologies, and enhancing the network of IT services
throughout relevant Government ministries and LGAs, in order to create rapid, on-line access to extension
materials at local levels.

Information conveyed through the agricultural extension system should enhance economic as well as
technical decisions. Household surveys assessing project benefits to farmers indicate that adoption rates
of technologies were much lower than awareness rates of farmers, highlighting the importance of markets,
marketing, input and output prices, credit and transport infrastructure as important determinants of
technology adoption. Interventions to improve the performance of agricultural markets increase returns to
investment in agricultural research and extension. Advising farmers on how best to identify economic
opportunities at a point in time will enhance their ability to use technical information.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Executive Summary of the Government of Tanzania's ICR and a Summary of the Zanzibar ICR



                                                     - 17 -

provided by the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar are in Annexes 12 and 13.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                               - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
Impact of Extension Services                                            Final Beneficiary Assessment Study - 2003
                                                 (Not projected)        (388 farmers in 11 districts sampled)
- Availability of extension services                                     88.9% of farmers surveyed
- Obtained extension advice from EOs                                     81.7% of farmers surveyed
- Method of contact with EOs                                             Direct (29%), Group (27%), Direct and
- Type of extension agent contacted                                     group (32%)
                                                                         EO (82.6%); Fellow farmer (7.3%)
- Quality of advice received                                             Rated excellent advice (77.3%)
- Frequency of contact with EO                                           Within 1 mth.(52.3%); 2-4 mths (24.4%)
- Farmer to farmer training                                              45% of farmers and 45% wish to continue
                                                                        as contact farmers

- Farmers' Sources of extension information                             Radio & TV (62%); Newspapers/magazines
                                                                        (48%); books/booklets (30%), media vans
                                                                        (11%)

Farmer Adoption (%) of Extension Advice for                             Baseline      Beneficiary     Beneficiary
Cereal Crops at Farm Level                                              study (1996)   study (1999)    study (2003)
- Timely land preparation                                                      60%            65%         77%
- Timely planting                                                              62             66         76
- Use of improved seeds                                                        29             48         55
- Use of proper spacing                                                        47             45         72
- Fertilizer/ Manure applications                                              23 (1998)      24          60
- Timely weeding                                                               70 (1998)      69          86
                                                                        (Adoption rates (%) of technologies for
                                                                        cereals)

Farmer Adoption (%) of Improved                                         Adoption of Improved Technologies (%)
Biological/Environmental Practices                                            1998/99                 2002/03
- Biological Control/PM                                                        7                        26
- Agroforestry practices                                                       19                       31
- Crop rotation/intercropping                                                  42                       43
- Soil Erosion Control                                                         18                       26
- Post-Harvest care                                                            33                       63
- Pesticide Use                                                                20                       48
                                                                        (Final Beneficiary Assessment, 2003)

Adoption of Improved Livestock Practices
 - Improved housing                                                     41% of pastoralists
 - Parasite & disease control                                           67% of pastoralists
 - Improved cattle feeds                                                39% of pastoralists
 - Pasture management                                                   31% of pastoralists


Change in Yields of Major Commodities                                   Baseline     Beneficiary     Beneficiary
                                                                        study (1996)    study (1999)   study (2003)
Maize (kg/ha)                                                               505            588               500
Paddy (kg/ha)                                  (Not Projected)              271            644               567
Sorghum (kg/ha                                                              289            259               226
Beans (kg/ha)                                                               175            235               332
Cassava (kg/ha)                                                             743              -                 -
Cotton (kg/ha)                                                              263            330                 -
Coffee kg/ha)                                                               148            275                 -
Milk (litres/cow/day)                                                          4             -             4.142
eggs(eggs/hen/year)                                                           62             -               245
                                                                        (2003 was drought year)




                                                     - 19 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                1
                  Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
MAINLAND
1. Extension Education and Training
Farmers:
   Residential training                      Initial Plan: 10,000; Revised: 6,000      Actual: 5,604 (Govt. ICR)
   On-site training                          Initial Plan: 75,000; Revised 45,000      37,179 (actual in last PSR, Govt. ICR)
   Farmers study tours                       Initial Plan: 5,000; Revised: 4,000       Actual: 1,807 (Govt ICR)
   Farmers benefitting from training         Revised Plan: 54119                       Actual: 44450
Staff Degree and Diploma Programs:
   BSc degree                                Initial and Revised Plan: 40              Actual: 20 (Govt ICR)
   MSc degree                                Initial Plan: 80; Revised Plan: 64        Actual: 54
   Retraining Diploma holders                Initial and Revised Plan: 800             Actual: 650 (PSR and Govt ICR)
   Diploma in General Agriculture            Revised Plan: 400                         Actual: 405

Staff Study Tours
   Study tours by outstanding VEOs           Initial Plan: 360; Revised Plan: 288      Actual: 216
   Inter-regional tours                      Initial Plan: 1440; Revised Plan: 1152    Actual: 864 (last PSR and Govt ICR)
   International study tours                 Revised Plan: 15                          Actual: 15
No. of Bi-monthly Training Sessions          Initial Plan: 16224; Revised Plan: 8954   Actual: 5,444
No. Quarterly Training Sessions              Initial Plan: 384, Revised: 224           Actual: 168

Short Courses for Staff
  TOT on Participatory Approaches (2wks)     Revised Plan: 240                         Actual: 240
 DSMS on farm management & participatory
approaches                                   Revised Plan: 55                          Actual: 55
  Frontline staff on farm management &
participatory approaches                     Revised Plan: 1,122                       Actual: 1,100
  Computer courses                           Revised Plan: 300                         Actual: 300


2. Communications/Media - FEPU
   Radio Programs                            Initial Plan 624: Revised: 767            Actual: 1040
   Farmers magazine (issues)                 Initial Plan: 42                          Actual: 38
   Extension News (issues)                   Initial Plan: 42                          Actual: 37
   Booklets (issues  different titles)      Initial Plan: 14                          Actual: 12
   Leaflets (issues  different titles)      Initial Plan: 54                          Actual: 39
   Posters (issues  different titles)       Initial Plan: 42                          Actual: 31

3. Communications/Media - ZCCs
   Posters                                   Initial Plan: 48                          Actual: 69
   Leaflets                                  Initial Plan: 96                          Actual: 219
   Booklets                                  Initial Plan: 24                          Actual: 1
   Video programs                            Initial Plan: 1464                        Actual: 624
   Radio Programs                            Initial Plan: 42                          Actual: 192


4. Pilot Initiatives
   I. Extension management & farmer                                                    Actual: 6 (with FFS approach in 16 districts)
empowerment
  II. Role of private sector in extension                                              Actual: 8: (mostly on seed production)
services provision
  III. Technology transfer initiatives                                                 Actual: 21 (irrigation, small dams,
                                                                                       mechanization, crop production, animal
                                                                                       health)
5. Civil Works
New staff Houses
  Arusha                                     Initial Plan: 19                          Actual: 19
  Morogoro                                   Initial Plan: 20                          Actual: 20
  Mwanza                                     Initial Plan: 28                          Actual: 28
  Shinyanga                                  Initial Plan: 24                          Actual: 24
  Tabora                                     Initial Plan: 22                          Actual: 22

District Extension Offices - new                                                       Actual: 4
                            - rehabilitated                                            Actual: 8
ZCC (rehabilitated)                                                                    Actual: 2




                                                                 - 20 -

ZANZIBAR
1. Extension Staff Training
   Diploma training                      Initial Plan: 19            Actual: 54
   Certificate training                  Initial Plan: 83            Actual: 76
   Overseas training                     Initial Plan: 12            Actual: 12
   Refresher course BEO                  Initial Plan: 40            Actual:164
   Refresher course SMS                  Initial Plan: 30            Actual: 30
2. Farmer Training
   On-farm demonstrations/trials (140)   Initial Plan: 1916          Actual: 2035 (M-1070; F-965)
   Field Days                            Initial Plan: 1315          Actual: 1057 (M-618; F-439)
   Study tours                           Initial Plan: 1073          Actual: 1358 (M-819; F-539)
   Residential courses                   Initial Plan: 7250          Actual: 6632 (M-2710; F-3322)
3. Media Extension Materials
   Newsletters                           Initial Plan:               Actual: 2000
   Radio programs                        Initial Plan: 150           Actual: 93
   Television programs                   Initial Plan: 144           Actual: 80
4. Civil Works
   New staff houses                      Initial Plan: 7             Actual: 7
   Training dormitory                    Initial Plan: 1             Actual: 1
   Other works                           Initial Plan: 8             Actual: 8

1End of project




                                                           - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal    Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                           Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million    US$ million
1. Institutional Strengthening                               13.74           17.10              124
2. Extension Training                                        10.56            9.40               89
3. Communications Support                                     2.58            2.30               89
4. Pilot Initiatives                                          1.49            1.80              121

Total Baseline Cost                                          28.37           30.60
 Physical Contingencies                                       0.63
 Price Contingencies                                          3.95
                          Total Project Costs                32.95           30.60
                    Total Financing Required                 32.95           30.60




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)


       Expenditure Category                    Procurement Method 1/            Total Cost

                                         ICB           NCB          Other 2/

1. Civil Works                          0.000          0.932         0.233         1.165
                                        (0.000)       (0.838)       (0.210)       (1.048)
2. Vehicles                             2.729          0.691         0.000         3.420
                                        (2.729)       (0.691)       (0.000)       (3.420)
3. Plant & Equipment                    0.207          1.200         0.386         1.793
                                        (0.207)       (1.164)       (0.374)       (1.745)
4. Training Studies & Technical         0.000          0.000         14.753       14.753
Assistance                              (0.000)       (0.000)       (14.753)     (14.753)
5. Pilot Initiatives                    0.000          0.897         0.897         1.795
                                        (0.000)       (0.897)       (0.897)       (1.795)
6. Recurrent Operating Costs            0.000          0.000         10.018       10.018
                                        (0.000)       (0.000)       (8.339)       (8.339)
    Total                               2.936          3.719         26.286       32.942
                                        (2.937)       (3.590)       (26.286)     (31.100)




                                                - 22 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)


      Expenditure Category                       Procurement Method 1/                      Total Cost
                                           ICB             NCB            Other 2/

1. Civil Works                            0.000            0.740           0.214              0.954
                                         (0.000)          (0.740)         (0.196)             (0.936)
2. Vehicles                               0.000            2.143           0.667              2.810
                                         (0.000)          (2.143)         (0.661)             (2.804)
3. Plant & Equipment                      0.176            0.963           0.309              1.448
                                         (0.176)          (0.963)         (0.306)             (1.445)
4. Training Studies & Technical           0.000            0.000          11.355              11.355
Assistance                               (0.000)          (0.000)         (11.355)           (11.355)
5. Pilot Initiatives                      0.000            0.000           1.744              1.744
                                         (0.000)          (0.000)         (1.744)             (1.744)
6. Recurrent Operating Costs              0.000            0.000          12.299              12.299
                                         (0.000)          (0.000)         (9.958)             (9.958)
   Total                                  0.176            3.846          26.588              30.610
                                         (0.176)          (3.846)         (24.220)           (28.242)


 1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include
     contingencies.
 2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services,
     services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services,
     and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds
     to local government units.




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                                                              Percentage of
          Component                   Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest Estimate         Appraisal
                                  Bank      Govt.     Total     Bank      Govt.     Total     Bank     Govt.
1. Institutional Strengthening    13.9       1.7       15.6    14.175     2.078     16.253    102.0    122.2
2. Extension Education &
Training                          12.6       0.0       12.6    10.101     0.000     10.101    80.2       -
3. Communications Support         2.8        0.1        2.9     2.222     0.290     2.512     79.4     290.0

4. Pilot Initiatives              1.8        0.0        1.9     1.744     0.000     1.744     96.9
                                                                                                         -
Total Project Costs               31.1       1.8       32.9    28.242     2.368     30.610    98.4     131.7




                                                   - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

         As the SAR pointed out, the economic impact of an agricultural extension project is diffuse. While
agricultural extension is an important complement to the other factors that influence the choice of
alternative techniques by farmers, it is difficult to isolate the impact of NAEPII from other variables that
determine farmer adoption of more efficient production methods, and yield and production changes. The
approach adopted in the SAR was to identify the "minimum incremental benefit stream" that would justify
the investment the government extension service, and then under an "incremental adoption" model, see
whether the project would, under a reasonable set of assumptions, produce the desired minimum benefit
stream. A detailed description of the basic assumptions about financial and economic prices, costs, target
crops and adoption rates is contained in Annex 4 of the SAR.

         Under the "minimum national impact" approach, the SAR noted that to obtain a rate of return of
25 percent or a benefit-cost ratio of 2.1 (at a discount rate of 12 percent, Tanzania's opportunity cost of
capital--OCC) on the proposed off-farm investment in government extension services, it was sufficient for
net on-farm benefits generated from selected crops and livestock to grow at a rate of 0.45 percent per
annum, over the 20-year economic life of the project. The selected crops were maize, sorghum, millet,
paddy, cotton, coffee, and tobacco (covering an aggregate of 70 percent of the cultivated area), and the
livestock were traditional and improved cattle. The benefits derive from an average annual yield increase of
0.15 percent and an average annual increase of on-farm costs of 0.07 percent.

         The "incremental adoption" analysis showed that the above rate of return and benefit-cost ratio
could result from the intervention of an extension service that influenced 11 percent of the farmers
cultivating the selected crops (and raising the selected animals), raising their yields between 10 and 22
percent over a five-year period. Since these crops represented about 70 percent of the area cultivated, this
implied that the extension service would bring an additional 270,000 farmers to use improved production
techniques.

         This ICR follows the incremental adoption analysis to recalculate the Economic Rate of Return
(ERR) over a 20-year period from 1996, using actual/observed yields and area increases, prices and costs
from 1996-2003.

Several assumptions/caveats need to be noted:
         (i) the assessment is carried out in 2003 prices, over the 20-year period; using the assumptions in
the SAR on export and import parity prices, at the farmgate; actual project costs were used as off-farm
costs, assuming recurrent costs of maintaining the improved level of service over the next 12 years;
         (ii) actual yields from the 2003 household surveys of pilot areas were not used, as these surveys
emphasized assessing changes in income, and covered only small groups of farmers for each crop. Also, as
2003 was a drought year, there were wide fluctuations in the pilot survey yield data. Therefore national
data were used for yields, production and area under cultivation from 1996-2002. Yields were increased
at the observed rate for each crop (with increases ranging from 1-3 percent per annum) over the next 12
years;
         (iii) recent farm budget data could not be obtained. The ICR used the crop budgets presented in
the SAR, but adjusted the labor inputs and other variable costs to reflect increases in the part-time rural
wage rate, and the Dar Consumer Price Index;
         (iv) data on fertilizer use was incomplete. Since crop budgets from 1996 were used, the ICR does
not reflect increases in the price of fertilizer. Discussions with farmers and extension workers during the
ICR mission confirmed that farmers maybe achieving the observed yields using less fertilizer and more
manure--a cost-effective technique, given the high fertilizer prices following the removal of the fertilizer


                                                       - 24 -

subsidy;
         (v) this analysis assumed area increases for most crops, following observed trends from
1996-2003, whereas the SAR had assumed constant area under cultivation for each crop over the 20 year
period.
         (vi) as the information on livestock and milk production of indigenous cattle and improved cattle
could not be obtained, this analysis uses the same information as in the SAR.

         If all observed yield increases for each crop are attributed to extension services, the benefit-cost
ratio at 12% is 1.529 and the internal rate of return (IRR) is 23%. If, however, we assume that extension
contributes only to a 50% of the yield increases under each crop, then the benefit-cost ratio and the IRR
decrease to 0.765 and 6% respectively.

Assuming 100% of yield increase due to extension:

Net Present Value of on-farm benefits at 12%:               38,284.3 Tsh. ml.
Net Present Value of off-farm Costs at 12%:                 25,034.5 Tsh. ml.
Benefit Cost Ratio (at 12 %):                               1.529
Internal Rate of Return (IRR):                              23%




                                                     - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               Sept/Oct - 1995           8    Agriculture Services

 Supervision
               12/06/1996                 6   TTL (1); RESEARCH (4);                S               S
               07/11/1997                 2    TTL (I); AG. SERVICES (1);           S               S
               03/13/1998                 1   TTL (1)                               S               S
               12/03/1998                 5   TTL (1); FIN. MGMT. (1);              U               S
                                              ASSISTANT(1); EXTENSION
                                              (1); SOIL FERTILITY (1)
               06/14/1999                 4   TTL (1); ECONOMIST (3)                U               U
               12/21/1999-MTR             8   TTL (1); AG. RESEARCH AND             U               U
                                              SERVICES (3); ECON (1);
                                              INSTI (1); FINANCE (1);
                                              COMMU.(1);
               07/14/2000                 1   TTL (1)                               U               U
               11/21/2000                 1   TTL (1)                               S               S
               07/20/2001                 4   TTL (1); AG./ECONOMIST (2);           S               S
                                              PROC SPECIALIST (1)
               03/29/2002                 4   TTL (1); AGRICULTURIST (1);           U               S
                                              RURAL DEV. (1); PROC. (1)
               10/01/2002                 4   TTL (1); OPERATIONS (1) ;             S               S
                                              AGRICUL. (1); RURAL DEV.
                                              (1)
               06/01/2003                 5   TTL (1); AGRICULTURIST (1);           S               S
                                              RURAL DEVELOPMENT (1);
                                              M&E (1); PROCURE. (1)
               12/04/2003                 2   TTL (1); TEAM MEMBER (1)              S               S

 ICR
               April/May                 1     Agriculturist                        S               S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               56.4                          167.4
  Supervision                             142.5                          610.3
  ICR
  Total                                   198.9                          777.7




                                               - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


Bank performance is considered 'marginally' unsatisfactory.

6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


Overall Bank Performance and Borrower Performance are considered 'marginally' unsatisfactory. Since
'marginal' ratings are not allowed/accepted in ICRs, Bank and Borrower Performance are rated
Unsatisfactory.




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Staff Appraisal Report
United Republic of Tanzania, National Agricultural Extension Project  Phase II, Report No. 15117-TA,
June 5, 1996, Agriculture and Environment Operations Division, Eastern Africa Department, Africa
Region.

Aide memoire/Supervision reports
Supervision Mission (December 1996)  Aide memoire
IDA Review Mission (June/July 1997), Aide memoire
IDA Supervision Mission (March 1998), Aide memoire
IDA Review Mission  November/December 1998, Aide memoire
Supervision Mission (June 1999)  Aide memoire
Mid-Term Review Mission (December 1999)  Final Aide Memoire
Supervision Mission (July 2000)  Aide memoire
Supervision Mission (November 2000)  Final Aide memoire
Supervision Mission (July 2001)  Aide memoire
Supervision Mission (March 2002)  Draft Aide memoire
Supervision Mission (October 2002)  Final Aide memoire
Supervision Mission (June 2003)  Aide memoire
Supervision Mission (December 2003)  Final Aide memoire

Studies
1. National Agricultural Extension Project II (NAEPII), Baseline Survey Report of 1996, Final Report,
Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, United Republic of Tanzania, 1996.
2. Needs Assessment for Training, October 1996
3. Needs Assessment for Communications Support, October 1996
4. Pilot Initiatives, October 1996
5. Vision/Strategic Framework for Extension 2010, 2001
6. Capacity Building Needs Assessment Study, 2001
7. Revision of Curricula of the Diploma Level Course in General Agriculture, 2001
8. Household Assets Survey of Phase I and Phase II Districts under Local Government Reform, Ministry
of Agriculture and Food Security, United Republic of Tanzania, 2001.
9. Study on the Institutional Arrangements and Capacity Assessment of Public Sector Agriculture
Extension, Draft Report, Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security, United Republic of Tanzania, October
2003.
10. Final Beneficiary Assessment Study, National Agricultural Extension Project (NAEPII), Ministry of
Agriculture and Food Security, United Republic of Tanzania, September 2003
11. Lessons from Experiences of NAEP II Micro projects, Agrisystems (EA) Ltd , March 2004




                                                  - 29 -

Additional Annex 8. Institutional Framework and Operations of Extension Services

Mainland Tanzania and Zanzibar have very different institutional arrangements. Therefore, this review of
the past and present institutional arrangement for agriculture extension services, and the implications for
future development of these services considers them separately.

Mainland Tanzania

Institutional Considerations. At the commencement of NAEPII, agricultural research and extension
services for agriculture and livestock, were under the control of a single ministry, MAC. A large number
of extension staff were located in Dar es Salaam with other extension officers located at regional, district
and village locations. Under the original project design, there was to be some rationalization of extension
services through staff redeployment and retrenchment. Decentralization of extension services was to occur
through deployment of Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) from the center to the district and division level.
In addition, there was to be a retrenchment of nearly 1,000 extension staff that were deemed to be
unsuitably qualified and not retrainable.

Significant institutional changes occurred in the early years of project implementation that were not
apparently considered at project appraisal. With the introduction of the Regional Administration Act No.
19 of 1997 and subsequent amendments of this Act in 1999 and 2000, line ministries became responsible
for policy formulation, setting the sector regulatory framework, issuing technical guidelines, determining
minimum standards for service delivery, sectoral M&E, training and research. Also, a new ministry was
established--Ministry of Regional Administration and Local Government. This subsequently became the
President's Office, Regional Administration and Local Government (PORALG). Under the new
arrangement, PORALG and the Regional Secretariats were to guide and supervise the planning and
management of the district administrations and provide the interface between activities and investments
planned and managed by the central government and the districts. Responsibility for extension services
was devolved completely to the local government authorities (LGAs). This meant that all the extension
staff located centrally were to be redeployed to the LGAs, with only a small core of extension staff retained
within MAFS and MWLD. However, with restructuring, the overall number of extension staff has
decreased, as the nearly 900 staff retrenched were not replaced. In October 2003, there were 5,835
extension staff that were deployed at both district headquarters (1,110) and at ward/village levels (4,725) to
provide service to about 10,470 villages. Thus only about 50% of the designate positions (based on one
extension officer per village) are filled. Further, in February 2001, MAC was restructured to create three
ministries--the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security (MAFS), the Ministry of Water and Livestock
Development (MWLD) and the Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing (MCM). Although MCM has no
role in providing extension services, this further separated national responsibility for agriculture and
livestock.

The process of decentralization has been slow. Effective decentralization was hampered by many factors
including, reluctance by extension staff to accept the new administrative arrangements, reluctance to
relocate, disparate allegiance between LGAs and line ministries, insufficient allocation of operational funds
by LGAs, lack of promotional opportunities, and difficulty in recruiting additional qualified staff.
Rigidities within the system also slowed the process, as vested interests and an unwillingness to accept
change acted against reform measures.

The government aims to streamline and improve performance within the civil service through measures to
raise the level of service packages to compete with the private sector. (The Client Service Charter is a tool



                                                       - 30 -

introduced by the Government for improving service delivery.) The introduction of reforms under the
Public Service Reform Program aims to improve recruitment, retention and motivation of Government staff
at all levels. However, sectors such as agriculture are a particularly challenging, given the size of the staff,
its predominantly non-urban location, and its specialist skill requirements.

Establishment of an effective decentralized service also depends on the successful adjustment from central
to locally-planned agricultural development, and improved and locally-customized information systems for
monitoring and reporting on services. The weak capacity in many LGAs has slowed the reform process, as
responsibility for government services has been transferred, while resource mobilization and financial and
administrative powers has remained largely under the control of central Government. Other bureaucratic
impediments include the lack of a well conceived change-management strategy, conflicting provision in
sector and local government legislation and lack of uniform standards of service.

Physical resources available to extension staff, and their ability to travel easily throughout the area of
responsibility affect the operation of extension services. NAEPII recognized this, and provided improved
physical facilities, equipment, vehicles, motorbikes and bicycles. With decentralization to LGAs, adequate
physical resources become even more important. The government has to have a needs-based plan for, and
commitment to, continue capital investment in local facilities to enable the decentralized extension services
to operate efficiently.

The restructured project design did not sufficiently address the total change in administrative responsibility.
It needed to focus support on establishing/strengthening the new administrative structures of PORALG and
the individual LGAs.

Extension System. The extension system introduced under NALERP was based on the T&V system of
extension services. This system is very staff intensive, strongly hierarchical in staff deployment and
management, oriented to training and information provision, and thereby provides a top-down method of
extension delivery to selected (contact) farmers. T&V is expensive to operate. Although the system was
modified under NAEPII to focus more on encouraging and developing a demand-driven and participatory
extension system, several problems remain. The financial ability of most LGAs to support mainstream
extension services is limited, and it is highly likely that the government will not be able to significantly
increase the size of the extension service. Furthermore, it is likely that the public sector will gradually, but
increasingly, limit its role in financing the provision of public goods and services. Thus Pilot Initiatives
outcomes are critical to further deepening reforms, and modifying and developing an alternative system of
extension delivery that is linked to and partially replaces the public system.

The Pilot Initiatives under NAEPII demonstrated that:
 NGOs, CBOs and the private sector can be important players in providing an effective extension
services;
 Farmer Field Schools (FFSs), as a methodology for technology transfer and farmer training, is a
promising, cost-effective method for client-oriented extension services, which responds to farmer demands,
empowers them through group training and participation, and provides effective farmers-research-extension
links;
 the establishment of grassroots organizations and their ability o mobilize savings is critical for the
sustainability of community-based initiatives, including paying for service providers and sharing the costs
of running FFSs.

Education and Training. GOT aims is to have a cadre of more knowledgeable and better educated



                                                       - 31 -

agricultural extension staff. GOT's target is to have senior extension staff and SMSs trained to university
level, and for VEOs and WEOs to have certificate and diploma level training. A major thrust of NAEPII
was to upgrade the knowledge and skills of extension staff through formal and informal education and
training. This included undergraduate and post-graduate programs at Sokoine University of Agriculture,
diploma and certificate level training at Ministry of Agriculture Training Institutes and Livestock Training
Institutes, and overseas, national and regional study tours. Training sponsored under NAEPII supplemented
other formal and informal training of extension staff sponsored directly by the Government.

The type of training and educational levels required is an issue. The government's training policy aims to
have staff with very specialized training. To this end , Government encouraged Sokoine University of
Agriculture (SUA) to offer very specialized courses at undergraduate and post-graduate levels. Such
specialization at undergraduate level seems inappropriate for extension staff. Extension staff should be
generalists. At the most, there could be some general specialization (agriculture, livestock or extension) in
the final year of the undergraduate course. SUA, which trains many graduates who seek employment in the
private sector, has found that employers in the private sector do not want such specialized graduates, and
therefore have moderated their curricula to be more generalized within the specialist degrees.

Continued technical training is another issue, because of the decision taken to stop in-service technical
training for extension staff. The T&V system started off with regular fortnightly training for extension
staff. This subsequently changed to monthly training and then bi-monthly training under NAEPII. During
the implementation of NAEPII the bi-monthly training was discontinued. This has left a void in technical
training for extension staff. An alternative means of regular technical training for extension staff is required
to keep abreast of new technologies and to provide a forum where technological issues can be discussed.
An alternative is to introduce seasonal and needs-based technical training programs for district extension
staff. The technical newsletter initiated under NAEPII was discontinued due to lack of funding when
NAEPII closed. This needs to be reinstated, but with a more technical format, as it can provide an
important means of communicating technical information from research, and a forum for extension staff to
communicate ideas and views to research staff.

Planning of Extension Services. The development of annual district plans for extension activities is
essential, both as a means of defining demand-driven extension services requirements and the necessary
budget support for identified activities. These need to be presented to district councils as part of their
overall annual planning requirements. Extension staff at village and ward level should formulate plans
based on participatory analyses of farmers needs at local levels, and these should be aggregated into an
overall plan for the district. Discussions at selected districts revealed that this is only done in some districts,
and not using a bottom춙p approach.

Research-Extension-Farmer Linkages. NAEPII sought to strengthen research-extension-farmer linkages
through: (i) close coordination between the extension service and research, where staff research and
extension staff meet regularly (Zonal Technical Committees, Zonal and Regional Agriculture Committees,
Zonal and national Agriculture Shows, national Coordinating Committee, Regional Extension Coordinating
Committee, Pre-seasonal/annual zonal workshops in each agro-climatic zone); (ii) establishment of a
research-extension liaison office and officer in the zonal research centers; (iii) establishment of a detailed
schedule of regular coordination and contacts between research and extension workers; (iv) adoption of
farmer group approach to collaboratively define and solve problems; (v) adoption of a farming systems
approach to research, with funds available from the TARPII to supplement the activities at farm level
under NAEPII; and (vi) involving farmers or farmer representatives on committees deciding priorities,
strategies and programs in research. Under NAEPII, the devolvement of extension services from MAC
(that was previously responsible for both national extension and research), made it more difficult to


                                                      - 32 -

maintain good research-extension-farmer linkages. Despite this institutional separation, these linkages
seem to have been reasonably effectively maintained, through MOUs between Zonal Research Directors
and District Executive Directors to reestablish/strengthen research-extension-farmer linkages. The farmer
group approach, which has been strongly reinforced through the FFS approach, involvement of on-farm
research with extension, the more inclusive approach of extension services provided by NGOs and CBOs
and many of the Pilot Initiatives under NAEPII, have all also supported and strengthened these linkages.

Communications. NAEPII correctly identified the need to strengthen the capacity of government services
to generate relevant agricultural information and communicate such media effectively to farmers.
Unfortunately, the design of activities for this sub-component pre-dated the enormous development of
information technologies (ITs) that have occurred in the last five years. However, despite this limitation,
there were significant developments in capacity to improve media (print, radio and video) production and
dissemination through the Farmer Education and Publicity Unit (FEPU) and the sub-units (Zonal
Communication Centres - ZCCs). Under NAEPII, ZCCs were only established in two zones with support
given under TARPII responsible for establishing ZCCs in other zones. While the FEPU was better able to
produce print media and in-house radio and video media, and also developed a greater capacity to
disseminate media materials, the privatization of radio and television has increased charges for radio and
television time, thus limiting use due to the budget. There is a need to further strengthen and extend these
services. Under a decentralized system, these responsibilities should be retained at the central level.
Modern IT equipment and methodologies should be introduced, and an information network developed to
the district level.

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). Assistance from NAEPII for the M&E Unit included staff training,
some equipment and operating costs. The Unit produced a range of monitoring and evaluation reports,
including quarterly reports monitoring progress on project implementation, annual reports on farm
production (three major crops and three livestock indicators for each zone), annual impact assessment of
extension messages, quarterly progress reports on communications outputs and bi-annual assessments on
progress on research-extension-farmer linkages. The unit was also responsible for a number of other
specific studies. However, relevance of reports to project M&E was limited by the inadequate identification
of KPIs. Field extension workers gave informal assistance in collecting data. Under a decentralized system
of extension, there is a vital need to put in place a formal arrangement for district extension services to
monitor a set of indicators pertinent to their performance (activities and outcomes) that can be used in
planning and managing district extension services. These activities should be integrated with those of the
national M&E Unit, which would have its own priorities for information collection and evaluation, to that
can be used for national policy and planning.

Non-Public Service Extension Providers. Three Pilot Initiatives tested the use of CBOs and NGOs as
alternative extension service providers. All three initiatives were able to mobilize farmers and improve
agriculture and livestock production through introduction of selected technologies. In each case, they
successfully identified and trained farmer motivators to support the initiatives, and established a farm input
buying center under one initiative. However, as all initiatives were supported by donor funds, some doubt
exists on the viability of this approach where external or public funds are not available.

Future Development of Extension Services. From the experiences of NAEPII and the extension system
that has now developed in mainland Tanzania, the ICR concludes that the further development of extension
services in Tanzania requires: (i) removal of designated positions and functions for SMSs to become senior
extension officers, and redefinition of WEOs and VEOs as extension officers; (ii) a change in
organizational structure of the district extension service, from a hierarchical to flat structure whereby there
is a small core of extension management staff at the district level with all other extension staff, including


                                                       - 33 -

ex-SMSs, WEOs and VEOs, deployed as small extension groups at suitable locations within a district; (iii)
commitment by the district councils to develop appropriate extension and transport facilities and sufficient
operating costs to each of the extension groups in the district, (iv) a changing role of extension agents from
advisor to facilitator; (v) establishing/strengthening linkages between district extension services within
regions, between districts and zonal research centres, and between districts and communication centres; (vi)
development of an M&E unit at district level with linkage to national M&E unit in MAFS; (vii) increasing
control of services by farmers through cost sharing, farmers' fora and advocacy; (viii) increasing use of
contracted services; and (ix) a focus on knowledge provision, as well as technical advice. To enable the
extension officers to carry out these functions their skills and knowledge have to be further broadened and
enhanced in extension methodologies, facilitation techniques, problem identification and problem-solving
methodologies, and to source and supply technological knowledge and information to clients.

Zanzibar

Institutional Considerations. Throughout project implementation, the extension services in Zanzibar
remained merged with agricultural research activities under the umbrella of the Commission of Agriculture,
Research and Extension, under MANREC. Administratively, the two islands of Zanzibar comprise 5
regions and 10 districts with 105 blocks, with each block assigned an extension worker covering 800-1,200
farmers. There are two main research stations, with sub-stations, and one training institute for both
extension staff and farmer training.

Extension System. A modified T&V extension system is used for provision of extension services.
Abandoning the T&V system in Zanzibar should be considered, for the same reasons discussed above.

Education and Training. Staff training was provided through refresher courses for Block Extension
Officers (BEOs) and SMSs, and exchange visits and specific short/long training courses at institutions on
the mainland and through limited overseas training. Formal training to certificate level was given to new
recruits to the extension service to replace old untrained staff. Further needs-based assessments are
required for continuing upgrading of extension staff skills and knowledge, and the need to retain/abolish the
SMS cadre should be debated.

Research-Extension-Farmer Linkages. Research-extension-farmer linkages were developed through the
establishment and management of FFSs and establishment of Farmers Research Groups (FRGs). Through
the FFS, researchers, extensionists and farmers collaborated in identifying, designing, planning,
implementing and evaluating demonstrated technological packages. The FRGs were used to test on-station
developed technologies under farmers'conditions and with their involvement. In addition, various
workshops and technical meetings were held for researchers, extensionists, farmers and other stakeholders.
The inclusion of both research and extension services within the one agency in Zanzibar naturally allows
closer linkages than on the mainland.

Communications. The agriculture Information Section was assisted in producing newsletters, leaflets,
radio and television programs. Consideration needs to be given to linking this unit with corresponding
mainland units to improve the production of extension media materials in Zanzibar.

Monitoring & Evaluation. The M&E Unit collected project information and made periodic assessment of
implementation progress of planned activities. Routine data collection was complemented by annual
crop-based surveys. A range of monthly, quarterly, bi-annual and annual reports were prepared. A review
should be undertaken to assess the appropriateness of information collected for M&E purposes.




                                                      - 34 -

Non-public Service Providers. Collaboration was established with NGOs and several donor-funded
development projects to join efforts in agriculture sector development. These initiatives should be
continued.

Adaptive Research. The adaptive research sub-component focused on: (i) on-station and on-farm
production, multiplication and distribution of disease free planting materials; (ii) on-farm adaptive research
trials; (iii) germplasm collection and maintenance; and (iv) soil fertility enhancement. The on-farm
multiplication of planting materials was very instructive to farmers in appreciating the multiplication
process, as well as in observing the agronomic performance of different plant materials. On-farm adaptive
research was conducted on cassava, yam, mango and sweet potato, and significantly higher yielding clones
and varieties were selected. Soil fertility initiatives were concerned with introducing measures to deal with
problems of low soil fertility and land degradation, and use of cover crops. Impact assessments indicated
high levels of adoption of improved varieties and higher yields in selected crops with reasonable adoption of
extension messages (65% of farmers). In relation to sourcing information, radio was easily the most
important media, and farmer to farmer training was also an important means of information transfer. The
close collaboration between research, extension and farmers needs to be continued and would benefit from
closer relationships with research and extension services on the mainland.




                                                       - 35 -

Additional Annex 9. Experience of NAEPII Pilot Initiatives Component

(The examples below are from "Lessons from Experiences of NAEPII Micro Projects", NAEPII, February
2004.) The Ministry approved 35 pilot projects (from 43 submissions) in three main categories: (i)
extension management and farmer empowerment (6 projects, including FFS approach); (ii) role of private
sector in extension services provision (8 including those on seed production); and (iii) technology transfer
initiatives (21 projects). Twenty-three of these projects were externally evaluated by personnel from
MAFS and Line Ministries at the end of 2003, to provide insights into their performance.

In looking at the NAEP contribution, it is important to keep in mind that other factors, internal and external
to the communities, may have facilitated or hindered the impact of interventions. These are mentioned
whenever possible. The review focuses on the impact of interventions on: (a) productivity and production;
(ii) markets, household income and livelihoods; and (c) other non-tangible benefits realized in the course of
implementing the initiatives.

                                 Examples of Impact on Productivity Changes

Intervention       Before Project            After Project Situation                           Note
Area               Situation

Farmer Field      Little knowledge of the    The use of IPPM in paddy increased by at least   -Some 12 FFS
School Concept technique among target        34%, but mostly doubled.                         initiated by
for Extension     farmers. Yields of maize                                                    farmers on their
Management        below 4 bags/acre and      Yield of Paddy: doubled to over 12 bags/acres.   own.

                  paddy below 6 bags/acre.   Maize: three-fold increase to over 12 bags/acre  -Up-scaled to 16
                  No FAMOs trained.                                                           districts
                                             30 IPPM trainers produced as FFS facilitators
                                             and 750 FAMOs trained to reach other farmers
                                             on IPPM-FFS

Land              Little knowledge and       -Use of animal-drawn implements up to 100%       Singida:
Management        application of the         among group members                              Mpambaa-
and               techniques.                                                                 MATMP; Mbarali
Mechanization     Under-utilization of       -Increase in farmed area per family

                  animal power. Crop         -In Singida, yields from mechanized farms
                  yields relatively low.     increased by 63% (maize), 146% (sunflower),
                                             and 48% (sorghum).

Water harvestingPaddy yields less than 3     Paddy yield increased to 6 bags (transplant      -Mtwara MRIP;
and irrigation    bags/acre. Poor condition only); 10-13 bags/acre (transplant, irrigated and Tandahimba-Chiu
                  micro-dams and water       fertilized) (Mtwara and Tandahimba)              mo CBSTII;
                  management

Adoption of high Lack of technology and      Farmers adopted cultivation of mushrooms and     Sumbawanga
value crops and less farming of high value vanilla for income generation. More families       (mushroom) and
horticulture for crops like mushrooms,       with home gardens and fruit trees. Youth and     Kagera (vanilla)
extra-income      tomatoes, onions and       women groups into gardening.
                  fruits.

Livestock and     -Low milk yield, small    - Chicken mortality significantly reduced (Songea -Songea
poultry health    eggs; light live and      and Bagamoyo-from 90 to 20%)                      (Mwatrans) and
and feed          carcass weight of poultry                                                   Bagamoyo and
management        and livestock             -Livestock mortality down to 2% from 10%          Monduli CBESP;
                                            (Shinyanga, Monduli):                             Dodoma RDTDC;
                  -Livestock conception rate                                                  Hai PHCAF;



                                                       - 36 -

                   low 50% and calving rate   -Conception rates up to 90% and calving rate up    Kasulu ILCTCT
                   about 60%.                 by 20%.

                   - High morbidity and-Milk        yield per local cow increased four times (to
                   mortality rates due to poor1.6lts/cow)

                   hygiene and disease/pest-Morbidity from tick-borne diseases down from 35
                   attacks                    to 15% in Dodoma. Cleared trypanosomiasis in
                                              target areas (Kasulu)

General            Low use of improved         -Increased adoption rate of improved agronomic KADEA-AESFC
improved           agronomic practices,        practices among 80% of group members; FYM         P; Rungwe
agronomic          resulting to low yields     used by 50%, mulching by 65% and organic          CBESIPP;
practices          i.e. banana 8t/acre         farming by 80% (KADEA), banana increased to       Morogoro MRPTI

                   (Rungwe); paddy             12t/acre (Rungwe), paddy up to 36bags/acre
                   25bags/acre (Mkindo)        (Mkindo)

Abbreviations: IPPM=Integrated Production and Pest Management; CBESP=Community Based Extension Services for
Pastoralists; MRIP=Mahurunga Rice Irrigation Project-Mtwara; CBSTII= Chiumo Basin Smallholder Traditional Irrigation
Improvement; KADEA-CBAESF= Community Based Agricultural Extension and Sustainable Food and Cash Crops Production;
Dodoma RDTDC=Rehabilitation of Dips, Tanks and Disease Control; MATMP=Mpambaa Animal Traction MP;
CBESIPP= Community Based Extension Services for Piggery Production; MRPTI=Morogoro Rice Production
Technology Improvement; ILCTCTC=Kasulu Integrated Low Cost Techniques to Tsetse Control.


                          Examples of Effect on Income and Household Livelihoods

Effects on:    Before Project Situation          After Project Situation

Marketing      Poor prices and lack of           - Formed/Strengthened Cooperatives, SACCOS and WUAs
               reliable markets for              (Mbarali MPSIS and Manyoni, Sumbawanga for mushrooms)
               agro-products                     to produce and market crops

                                                 - Started Crop Banks for store produce and sell when prices
                                                 improve (KADEA)

Incomes       - Poor marketing and prices        -Savings per livestock group accounts grew up to TSh.0.75 mil
              resulted in low and erratic        (Bagamoyo CBESP), mechanization groups' income also
              income from farming                increased from both crops and hire services of implements

              - Low productivity also meant      (ox-plough, ox-carts, magoye-ripper) (Singida MATMP,

              less surplus for sale              Masasi-Chipuputa, and Mbarali MPSIS); Kongwa charge
                                                 3-5,000/acre cultivation;
              - Poor crop husbandry led to
              poor quality products/low          -Income from sale of fruits and vegetables (Igunga PCMRFV);

              livestock weigh, and lower         -Livestock and poultry live weight improved, hence better
              income                             selling prices

              - Lack of grassroots MFI meant     -Members able to borrow thousands of shillings from their
              no access to credit                societies (Mbarali);

General       - Low farm productivity due to     -Improved nutritional status from vegetables and fruits (Igunga)
Livelihoods poor farming techniques, basic
              farm tools, poor breeds, and       -Reduced human labor due to use of draught power, and

              ignorance, leading to low levels   proximity to water sources (wells and dams)

              and reliable income sources        -Improved housing due to extra income earned

              -poor housing and clothing;        -Improved health status due to cleaner water, balanced diets,
                                                 and adequate food intake




                                                        - 37 -

             -food insecurity, poor health
                                                   -Improved knowledge and better understanding of their
                                                   environment and coping strategies;

                                                   -improved ecology and better micro-climate due to planted
                                                   forests, agro-forestry and soil-water conservation;

                                                  -Understanding of civic rights and responsibilities.

Women and Unequal intra-household                  Incomes increased following sales of surplus milk, vegetables,
youth        distribution of resources and         and fruits. In e.g. Shinyanga women groups: household milk
             income from jointly-invested          sales 7-10lts/day (Tsh.60,000 pm).
             efforts.                              Women groups and SACCOS formed to offer unbiased services
             Institutionalized bias on access
             to knowledge and skills in favor      Women in committees and other group leadership

             of men                                responsibilities

Food          Recurring food deficits and          Food security improved: e.g. surplus milk (produced up to 14
Security      insecurity due to poor               l/day) (e.g. Shinyanga WGET);
              production and low incomes
              to cope with the shortages           Food deficit months reduced by 1 month (e.g. Same CAEFS);

              Imbalanced diets due to lack         Improved nutrition from balanced diets (e.g. Igunga PCMRFV)

              of food varieties to provide all
              the needed nutrients all the
              time

WGET= Shinyanga Women Group Extension Training Micro-Project; MP=Micro-project; PCMRFV=Production and
Consumption of Micro-nutrient rich fruits and vegetables; MPSIS Mbarali Mechanization Programme in Smallholder Irrigation
Scheme; WUA=Water Users Association; SACCOS=Savings and Credit Cooperatives Societies; MATMP=Singida Mpambaa
Animal Traction MP.


                        Examples of non-tangible benefits from pilot interventions

Effects on:       Before Project Situation          After Project Situation

Institutional     Poorly-trained and                -Provided offices and transport to Extension Officers and
strengthening     inadequately-equipped field       FAMOs to work more efficiently (e.g. Rombo)
                  extension workers, farmer
                  motivators, farmer field          -Oxenisation a priority in district plans (e.g. Kongwa)

                  schools, and weaker               -Linking LGAs with other extension service providers and
                  community-based                   CBOs/NGOs in the district
                  grassroots institutions           -Strengthened FFS and linkages with LGAs and CBOs

                                                    -MFIs and other associations created at the grassroots

Community       -Less organized community           -Down-top approach in decisions to form groups and
Empowerment efforts to prioritize and solve         identifying areas of capacity building needed (e.g. KADEA
and             problems                            AESFCP)
Organization
                -Top-down approach in               -Dipping committees established and functioning (Dodoma
                forming groups                      RDTDC, Monduli and Bagamoyo CBESP)

                -Less-informed communities          -Pastoral groups graduate to cooperatives (Bagamoyo)
                on available potentials to
                solve problems                      -Farmer groups and associations formed

                -Less knowledgeable on group        -WUAs and SACCOS formed and/or strengthened



                                                           - 38 -

               dynamics, leadership skills  -Farmers more confident with FAMOs services compared to
               and planning                 FAEO (Kagera)

                                            -Farmers taking responsibility for the welfare of FAMOs

Networking:    -Little recognition by LGAs  -District Councils provide material support to CB Extension
Vertical and   on the role of CBOs/NGOs;    MP (Kagera); and dipping material (Dodoma)
Horizontal
Linkages       -Less networking with other  -Networking with stakeholders beyond the district (e.g.
               farmer groups within and     Songea-Hanga village);
               outside district             -Neighbor farmers to NAEPII CB Initiatives copy improved
               -Top-down initiatives in     technologies (Mtwara Mahurunga RIP; Dodoma RDTDC)
               forming grassroots
               institutions                 -Farmer groups graduating into associations and cooperatives
                                            (KADEA)

Gender         Less concrete strategies to  -Reduced women labor burden due to mechanization
mainstreaming implement national policies
               on women's economic          -New technologies empowered women economically. Example:

               empowerment at grassroots    half of the group members are women (Kongwa oxen
                                            mechanization); more women than men interested in minor
                                            crops (mushroom in Sumbawanga)

                                            -Women empowered with leadership skills

Sustainability -Top down approach denied    High level of awareness and appreciation of the importance of
of farmer      communities sense of         group action and pooled resources to solve community
empowerment ownership                       problems. Contribute in kind and cash in running the

               -Poor mobilization and       grassroots institutions. Established and democratically run

               top-down perpetuated         institutions ensure stable leadership. Contributed and

               resource dependence          well-managed funds to ensure confidence by members.

               syndrome.

Pluralism       Single (public service)     - Small-scale farmers successfully engaged in improved seed
(Private        system of extension         bulking (e.g. 20 tons/year-Igunga and Karagwe SSFS) for sale
Sector Role)    management and service      to other farmers
                delivery, with little
                recognition on the role of  - Input supply system using private sector stockists and

                other stakeholders          suppliers established (Dodoma DFICS);

                (non-government actors)     - Input suppliers also engaged in crop marketing (Dodoma)

                                            - Loan repayment for inputs almost 100% (Dodoma);



Note: Dodoma RDTDC=Rehabilitation of Dips, Tanks and Disease Control; FAEO= Field Agricultural Extension
Officer; CSPDPA= Igunga Community-based Seed Production in Drought-prone Areas; DFICS= Dodoma
Development of Farmer Inputs Credit Scheme; Karagwe FSFS=Seed Security for Food Security;
CBESP=Community Based Extension Services for Pastoralists.




                                                  - 39 -

Additional Annex 10. Footnotes

1/ A pilot agriculture extension project was introduced in five regions in 1986, and expanded to sixteen
   regions under the National Agricultural and Livestock Extension Rehabilitation Project (NALERP)
   from 1989 to 1996.

2/ The DCA was amended in May 2000 (following the MTR) and in November 2001 (following changes
   in various ministries). LEGAF also prepared an Amended and Restated DCA, which incorporated
   earlier amendments as well. The amended DCA was not presented to the Bank's Board.

3/ Michael Baxter, Roger Slade and John Howell, "Aid and Agricultural Extension--Evidence from the
   World Bank and Other Donors", World Bank Technical Paper #87, 1989.

4/ Madhur Gautam and Jock R. Anderson, "Reconsidering the Evidence on the Returns to T&V Extension
   in Kenya", Operations Evaluation Department, World Bank, April 1999.

5/ The Government ICR, undertaken by an independent consulting company, indicated some reservations
   that District Councils will allocate a sufficient budget for adequate extension services delivery,
   particularly with the removal of the crop and livestock cess from 2003/2004 FY.




                                                     - 40 -

Additional Annex 11. Final Beneficiary Survey, 2003 - Summary of Results

Awareness and application of acquired knowledge
The study found a large gap between knowledge and its application by farmers.

In 1999, 17% of farmers surveyed confessed they were knowledgeable on the various improved practices
for land husbandry. In 2003, this had risen to 26%.

Less than 55% of the farmers used improved seeds of one crop or another. The practice is that they would
use improved seeds in crops with a higher market price potential, and continue with local seeds for other
crops, or in part of the farm for same crop.

The proportion of farmers using improved seeds and applying manure/fertilizer increased from 48% and
23% in 1998, to 55% and 60% in 2003, respectively. However, there is still a big challenge in
encouraging farmers to use agro-forestry, soil erosion control measures and integrated pest management,
which are still practiced by a very small proportion of the farmers.

Crop production
The most common cereals grown by farmers are maize, paddy and sorghum. Cassava and banana are also
important crops. These are grown for both food and selling for cash. More than 50% of the farmers grew
maize as the main crop. Non-food cash crops are coffee, sunflower, cotton, onions, tomatoes and citrus.

There has been a gradual increase in crop yields in normal weather years. However, yields in 2002, used in
this survey, were lower than average due to country-wide drought. According to the interviewed farmers in
maize-suitable districts, they usually obtain an average yield of 1,200 kg per hectare, which is an
improvement compared to an average yield of 600-700 kg per hectare reported in 1999. The average level
of yields attained by most farmers is still very low compared to the potential levels using very basic crop
husbandry practices.

Although there is a significant proportion of farmers attempting to use various technological packages, the
impact on overall production is limited, due to the fact that:

        A small proportion of farmers apply improved practices;
        Even those applying improved practices tend to selectively apply to parts of the farm, (or, in the
case of livestock, retain old unproductive breeds while keeping a few improved cattle or goats like a show
case to other farmers).

Livestock production
Although on average there are 3 cattle per household, there is one 1 dairy cow for each 4 households.
Ownership of livestock is also highly skewed, whereby only 27% of households had cattle. Less than 15%
of the respondents possessed at least one improved dairy cattle breed. Milk production per cow, from both
improved and local breeds, is also still low, especially for local breeds, bringing the daily average to 0.9
litres per local cow and 5 litres per improved cow.

Food Security Improvement Proxies
Despite the impressive high level of awareness among farmers on the required husbandry practices and
yield-boosting technologies, many constraints continue to prevent widespread adoptions and application of
such technologies for higher production levels. Consequently, slightly more than 50% of the households
experienced apparent seasonal deficit of main staples ranging from 3 to 6 months each year. Most of the
foodstuff consumed is starch, with more than 61% and 55% the households having protein foods as part of
lunch or supper, respectively.


                                                     - 41 -

Adequate and balanced food intake has a positive bearing on the health status of an individual. The survey
indicated that 60% of the households had at least one member who fell sick and had to seek medical help
during the previous 12 months. Only 15% of them could not afford formal treatment due to lack of money.

Income Improvement Proxies
According to this study, there have been some positive changes in indicators related to quality of housing,
ownership of capital-intensive assets, expenditure levels on household basic needs. The proportion of
households owning production tools such as ox-ploughs increased from 11% in 2001 to 17% in 2003.
Those owning bicycles and transistor radios increased from 55% and 52% in 2001, to 65% and 82% in
2003, respectively. As for the quality of housing, in 2001, 49% of the respondents had houses with
iron-sheet roofs. In 2003, this was 64%.

Expenditure on non-food items such as education and farm implements also increased. The percent
increases in these categories between 2001 and 2003 were 8.2 and 12.6 respectively. A better measure of
increased purchasing power would have been quantities purchased at cost adjusted by the inflation rate
(unit costs at real prices). Either way, it could be argued that if prices go up and farmers continue spending
the same amount or more, it implies a state of increased farmer incomes, which could be attributed to
successes in raising productivity and/or total production.


                                     Trend of adoption rates (%) for improved technologies


                  100%


                   90%


                   80%


                   70%


                   60%


                   50%


                   40%


                   30%


                   20%


                   10%


                    0%
                            1998/99            1999/00                  2000/01             2001/02    2002/03

      Land Preparation       63%                65%                      68%                 71%        77%

      Improved Seeds         48%                48%                      50%                 50%        55%
      Plant Spacing          41%                45%                      55%                 59%        72%

      Weeding                70%                69%                      76%                 66%        86%

      Manure Application     23%                24%                      21%                 22%        60%




                                                                - 42 -

Additional Annex 12. Executive Summary of Government of Tanzania ICR



                                     EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

I.      Background to NAEPII

1.      The National Agricultural Extension Programme Phase II (NAEP II) was implemented in 20 of
Mainland Tanzania (1996/97 to December 2003) and all regions of Tanzania Island (Zanzibar) (from
2000). The approach of NAEP II is basically a modification of the T&V system, seeking to achieve its
development objective of increased farmer income and enhanced food security by developing a
participatory, demand-driven extension system; developing appropriate technological packages for
low-income farmers; strengthening the role of farmer-based organisations in input supply and enhancing the
participation of farmers and extension staff in training programmes.

2.      The project's development objectives contribute to Government of Tanzania's efforts to achieve
sustainable and equitable economic growth as part of poverty alleviation strategies. It is operated within the
general framework of rural development and agricultural sectors development strategies already initiated
and with ongoing programmes such as the Agricultural Sector Development Programme. NAEPII
contribution to improving demand-driven extension services delivery systems and linkages with technology
development was effected within the context of empowering communities through their local governments
under the Local Government Reform Programme.

3.      This report revisits the goals and expected outputs of NAEPII in terms of physical achievements,
impact of the interventions and sustainability, factors that affected implementation, lessons learned and
recommendations.
NAEPII Components

4.      The programme had originally four main components, with a total budget of US$32.9, including
Government contribution of US$1.8 million. The budget was later in 2000 revised to include Zanzibar
Islands, such that the revised budget allowed for US$2.5m to be allocated for Zanzibar out of IDA's
budget of US$31.1 m.

      Tanzania Mainland
a)      Institutional strengthening for the reorganization and rationalization of the extension services;
originally budgeted at US$15.7m.
b)      Extension education and training for staff, farmers and training institutions; originally budgeted at
US$12.6m.
c)      Communications support for decentralizing information management; originally budgeted at
US$2.9m.
d)      Pilot initiatives to improve extension management, technology transfer to farmers,
farmer-extension-research linkages, pluralistic extension delivery methods, farmer empowerment, and
gender impact. This was budgeted at US$ 1.7m.


      Government of Zanzibar

e)      Zanzibar Component of NAEPII: Originally not included in the budget but later allocated US$ 2.5



                                                     - 43 -

m obtained from savings or cuts from various components for Mainland Tanzania as proposed in the SAR.
GOZ contribution was US$0.225m. After revision, the amount of funds available for Tanzania Mainland
for the four components was less by US$2.5m.


Funds utilisation

5.               By the end of November 2003, actual IDA disbursement for NAEPII in Mainland
Tanzania was US$ 26,176,198 (97.6% of the budget), while US$1,963,695 had been disbursed for
NAEPII in Zanzibar Islands (78.5%) utilisation. The contribution by Mainland Tanzania reached
US$1.816 million (67% of the budget), while that of Zanzibar Government was US$0.125 million (78.6%
of the budget).


6.       Almost all of the planned procurement of goods (e.g. vehicles and civil works) and services in both
Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar were successfully undertaken as planned, despite some delays in some of
the items due to either technical specifications or tendering procedures.

II.      COMPONENT IMPLEMENTATION PROGRESS

Key Areas of Project Success:

7.       Despite the administrative setbacks occasioned by the dynamics of decentralisation of local
government systems and their roles in running and supporting extension services in the country, the project
on the whole managed to record significant progress in building the capacity of extension agents,
strengthening of extension delivery system and collaboration with other institutions, including research,
academic/training institutions and the private sector. Some notable achievements are summarised below:


  Key area of achievement                                                         Collaborators

  1. Development of Extension Vision 2010 and Plan of Implementation Plan         Key Line Ministries,
  by 2000                                                                         Local Governments

 2. Developed a special curriculum for a Diploma in General Agriculture, Higher                 Learning
 which was adopted by training institutions by 2001                               Institutions

 3. Prepared modules for PRA which were used as standard tools for training Higher              Learning
 and application in the field by 2001                                             Institutions

 4. On-farm trials, bulking and distribution of disease-resistant maize seeds for TARPII     and    Uyole
 the Southern Highlands zone to combat maize blight which was contained Agricultural Research
 through collaborative efforts.                                                   Centre

 5. Initiated multiplication of foundation seeds using villagers organised in Research Stations and
 groups before distributing to other farmers for planting                         Villagers and District
                                                                                  Leadership

 6. Farmers empowered to determine research agenda through FRGs and FFS, Research             institutions
 thereby enabling resource commitment for solving farmer-identified problems and Farmers

 7. Built the capacity of Information and Communication centres and offices to Training       institutions
 effectively gather, repackage and disseminate extension information              and private sector




                                                      - 44 -

 8. Built the capacity of the majority of extension workers and officers through Higher             Learning
 refresher courses and upgrading of professional qualifications (undergraduate Institutions and LGAs
 and post-graduate studies). Under-qualified and untrainable staff were
 retrenched.

 9. Sponsored extension workers and officers on study tours and short courses Higher                Learning
 locally and overseas e.g. Brazil (on zero tillage techniques), Philippines (on Institutions
 PRA techniques), United Kingdom (Radio programming and social
 marketing).

 10. Constructed houses and offices for Extension Workers at Ward, Division Private             Sector    and
 and district levels                                                                  District Leadership

  11. Facilitated extension officers and frontline extension workers with Private sector
  extension kits and transport facilities (motorcycles and bicycles)



8.       Below is a synopsis of what has been achieved under each component of the project.


Institutional Strengthening

9.       The output on extension institutions strengthening was characterised by activities aimed at creating
participatory and consultative decision making mechanism through management committees; streamlining
the quality and deployment of trained manpower, strengthening linkages between farmers, extension agents
and researchers, and establishing a cost effective monitoring and evaluation system.
10.      Management organs for NAEPII were established and operated in both the Tanzania Mainland and
the Islands of Zanzibar. At the national level, they included the NAEPII Project Steering Committee (PSC),
whose equivalent in the Islands was the Zanzibar Project Technical Committee (ZPTC), which co-opted
some members of the NAEPII Project Steering Committee. There was also a Project Monitoring Unit
(PMU) Liaison Office in Pemba to coordinate NAEPII operations in the sister island.
11.      In the Mainland, below the PSC were the District Extension Steering Committees (DESCs) which
operated until 1999/2000 when their roles were supposed to be taken by the District Management Teams
(DMT) and Ward Development Committees (WDC) under the Local Government Reform Programme
(LGRP). Unfortunately the DMTs have failed to effectively play the role of DESCs and therefore left a
vacuum in the districts in terms of providing management guidance.
12.      In realising the role of Local Government Authorities in sustainable management of extension
services, deliberate efforts have been taken to involve, at the national level the PO-RALG in the
management of NAEPII, including its active participation in the NSC. At the local level, Council personnel
have been included in training and study tours sponsored by the project. However, despite this support,
there is little evidence to date, except for a few districts, to indicate that LGAs are taking a pro-active role
to financially support the management and delivery of extension services.
13.      Rationalisation of qualified and competent staff at different levels went on well during the first
three years such that all SMSs were placed under the District Extension Office. However, plans to deploy
SMSs at the Division level were revised following the decentralisation process where the Ward took a more
important role than before. However, 900 personnel assessed as under-qualified for professional upgrading
were retrenched to give way for a new crop of trainable personnel.
14.      NAEPII resources were also used in both the Mainland and Zanzibar to facilitate enhanced
collaboration with different stakeholders through meetings, workshops, study tours and exchange of
germplasm for different crops. External collaborating institutions included KARI, IITA, SARRNET and
CIP.



                                                       - 45 -

15.      Farmer-based grassroots institutions such as Farmers Research Groups (in Zanzibar) and Farmer
Field Schools (Mainland) were encouraged through trainings and granting demonstration materials.
Support activities in this area were carried out more or less as per plans.
16.      Also established and supported as part of institutional strengthening were Monitoring and
Evaluation Units at Ministries' HQs in Dar es Salaam (MAFS) and Zanzibar (MANREC). However
District support for M&E routines in the Mainland were somehow disrupted following the dissolution of
DESCs in 1999. Despite the hiccups, it was still possible to train SMSs and other professionals on
computer use and also involve them in routine reporting and undertaking of various studies and surveys.
17.      In order to ensure that piloted extension methodologies, anchored on the principles of participation
and demand-driven system, MAFS prepared a National Extension Vision 2010, which incorporates those
cardinal principles. Various stakeholders, both national and district-based participated in its deliberation.
Extension Education and Training
18.      The training plans for staff and farmers, involving short and long courses, workshops and study
tours, were guided by results from a Training Needs Assessment. A Training Coordination Committee
(TCC) in the Mainland was in-charge of the training plans, and included members from other line
ministries' departments such as Adult Education and Community Development.
19.      Besides providing the needed knowledge and skills to extension staff, the sponsored trainings in
both Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar gave a boost to the local training institutions in terms of enhancing
their technical competence as centres of excellence and utilising their capacities to the full. For example,
18% of the registered M.Sc students at Sokoine University of Agriculture between 1996 and 2000 were
sponsored by NAEPII. The trained manpower was also readily available for consultation by the private
sector.


Training in Tanzania Mainland

20.      Extension personnel were trained at four different levels: refresher courses, certificate courses,
diploma and first degree courses, and advanced diploma or master's degree level. The staff also attended
Bi-monthly and Quarterly Trainings, which involved more than 5,600 sessions, attaining 61-75% of the
target.
21.      About 20 and 54 staff attended graduate (bachelor) and post-graduate (masters) courses, which
were 50% and 84% of the targets, respectively. Another 405 and 650 were sponsored for Diplomas in
Agriculture and Diploma level refresher courses, which were 91% and 81% of the targets, respectively.
Short courses, which involved more than 1,690 women and men, were conducted almost according to set
targets. Likewise, 75% of the planned study tours, involving more than 1,070 people, were conducted.
22.      As for farmers, more than 44,450 farmers (82% of the target) participated in various training
programmes in the form of residential courses, one-day on-site trainings and study tours.


Training in Zanzibar

23.      Kizimbani Agricultural Training Institute (KATI) was earmarked to offer certificate level courses
to about 123 Block Extension Officers (BEOs). Another batch of 164 BEOs and 29 SMSs attended
refresher courses. There were also short and long courses for extension and research officers locally and
overseas. These courses were conducted more-or-less according to plans.

24.      More than 3,300 women and 2,700 men attended residential courses (82% of the target). Others
(1,943 women and 2,507 men) were also facilitated to attend on-farm demonstrations, field days and study
tours. The attendance was above target.

Communication Support



                                                     - 46 -

25.      NAEPII took lessons from the experiences of NALERP in deciding to facilitate the establishment
of Zone Communication Centres (ZCCs) based on the seven agro-ecological zones. The main reason was to
have information centres which responded to area-specific needs and requirements of farmers.
26.      By the end of NAEPII, plans to equip the ZCCs were undertaken as planned in 3 zones (including
one inherited from SHERFS Project) and partially fulfilled in 4 zones. The delays in evaluating the
experiences from the initial 2 pilot zones (Eastern and Northern) postponed commencement of interventions
in the other zones until 1999 when partial support was started. Staff training, involving more than 18
professionals from FEPU and ZCCs, was provided locally and abroad in script preparation, journalism and
communication skills.
27.      Plans by FEPU to produce magazines, newsletters, booklets and posters/leaflets were attained by
between 74% and 90% of the target. As for the ZCCs, their plans were fulfilled by between 65% and 67%
for newsprint and 42% for video titles shows.
28.      There were 19 different video titles produced in-house and using hired professionals covering
various topics. FEPU also produced and aired a total of 1,040 radio programmes. However, the use of TV
was limited to Dar-es-salaam and Morogoro only.
29.      In Zanzibar, all the planned number of newsletters were printed and distributed (2,000 copies), but
aired 62% and 56% of the planned radio and TV programmes, respectively.

Pilot Initiatives
30.      More than 25 micro-projects were initiated in Tanzania Mainland, with the aim of improving
extension management, technology transfer methods, enhancing inter-linkages between farmers, extension
agents and researchers, encouraging alternative extension service providers, and piloting on
community-based seed production and input supply.
31.      In developing alternative extension services delivery methodologies, more than 9 micro projects
were initiated and supported, where Farmer Field Schools (FFSs), Farmer Motivators (FAMOs) and
Paravets took centre-stage in piloting farmer-based extension delivery system. Several Farmer Groups,
CBOs and NGOs have been formed and registered and successfully operating in different districts.
32.      Some initiatives under NGOs and CBOs, including church-based NGOs, were tested as alternative
extension service providers. Typical examples are Mogabiri Farm Extension Centre, MWATRANS
Farmers Association in Songea and Catholic Diocese in Shinyanga. The initiatives have shown that it is
feasible to develop farmer-based institutions as alternative service providers, given the right formulation
and guidance in the early stages of formation.
33.      Among the micro-projects initiated to test effective ways of technology transfer include on-farm
testing on (i) fertilisers and manure application (ii) water harvesting and irrigation farming (iii)
oxen-mechanisation (iv) livestock and poultry disease control by dipping and vaccination (v) Luciana
production and utilisation (vi) mushroom production and (vii) vanilla production. The initiatives created
chances for farmers to test not only the productivity advantages, but marketing potentials and investing in
alternative sources of income generation from the surplus income. The activities also acted as
demonstration centres for other farmers to learn and emulate.
34.      The various micro-projects had the parallel advantage of mainstreaming gender concerns as part of
economically and technologically empowering men and women in rural communities. In all the
undertakings there was provision for ensuring minimum participation of women and youth.
35.      Although there was no formal budget for the equivalent of pilot initiatives in Zanzibar, but in
essence Farmer Extension Groups and Farmer Research Groups played a similar roles as farmers
participated in testing various technologies and exchanged ideas and experiences with other stakeholders.

Adaptive Research (Zanzibar)
36.      Adaptive research initiatives gave a chance for farmers to participate in seeking solutions for
profitable farming. The initiatives, undertaken both on-farm and on-research stations focussed on:


                                                       - 47 -

a.       multiplication and distribution of disease-free quality planting materials (banana and tubers-yams,
potatoes, cassava) on a total of 25.5 ha of small experimental plots in Unguja and Pemba. FFSs, FRGs and
individual farmers were later on involved in multiplication of healthy materials in 21 sites.
b.       On-farm adaptive research trials were undertaken for screening for the best among four local yam
varieties, evaluating six local and two improved cassava varieties for yield and pest resistance, top-working
on 600 mango plants for export quality, and screening the best among local and improved sweet potatoes.
The results were jointly evaluated between farmers and researchers and recommendations made.
c.       Germplasm collection and maintenance of genetic resources for local and improved food plants.
Germplasm accessions were obtained for cassava (52 local and 6 improved), sweet potatoes (40 local and
11 improved), yams (30 local and 4 improved from IITA) and banana (37).
d.       An action plan for Soil Fertility Initiatives was formulated and approved; and also Cover Crop
Seed Bulking programmes were established in both Pemba and Unguja (2 acres each).

III.     EFFECTS AND IMPACT OF NAEPII INTERVENTIONS

Institutional Strengthening
37.      By encouraging a group approach in interactions for extension delivery, NAEPII was in essence
contributing to the nurturing of basic building blocks for any grassroots institutions. Farmer Extension
Groups and Farmer Research Groups and Farmer Field Schools have the potential to be transformed into
other economic and social groups such as Producer Groups, Crop and/or Input Marketing Groups or
Associations, Primary Cooperatives and Input Marketing Groups.
38.      Group members were taught on group dynamics, rules and procedures and management skills. This
must have contributed to infusing a democratic culture, which is an essential part of good governance and
transparency in the civil society. There are reports that group leaders and FAMOs for example, are already
recognised as part of the village leadership and are invited in village meetings.
39.      Skills are taught on keeping records of group information (production and meetings). These could
be used individually as skills for profitable farming and other business enterprise.
40.      At the national level, the Steering Committees drew members from different departments. This
encouraged inter-ministerial collaboration in finding solutions to cross-sectoral constraints, and having a
coordinated approach in mobilising resources and interventions for other problems as well. The co-option
of NAEPII National Steering Committee members in the Zanzibar Project Steering Committee contributed
in cultivating joint decision making between GOT and GOZ, thus strengthening the Union.
41.      The project supported linkage activities through meetings, workshops and exchange visits, helped
inter-institutional knowledge exchange and improvement.
42.      Monitoring and Evaluation reports provided the required feedback to NAEPII management which
was the basis for critical decisions on activity implementation and offering policy directions.
43.      It was during NAEPII when GOT realised the need to come up with a Vision and Extension
Framework Tanzania Mainland. The future for extension management, which is demand-driven and
participatory, poses a challenge to LGAs to look into ways of supporting exchange services.
44.      The trained manpower under NAEPII added to the pool of professionals in the country, which
could be sourced by other public and private bodies to enhance production and processing, all part of
poverty alleviation efforts.

Changes in farmers' knowledge, attitudes and skills
45.      Various activities supported by NAEPII helped to impact on farmers' knowledge, attitude and
skills on improved farm management practices. These included individual and group trainings, on-farm
trials, FFS, FRGs, field days and demonstrations, newspapers/magazines, radio and electronic educational
programmes and news. The main source of knowledge is still through messages from extension agents,
mainly in group interactions.


                                                       - 48 -

46.      Several studies conducted during the course of NAEPII implementation indicate that there has been
a steady increase in the interactions between farmers and extension agents and/or extension information
sources, such that awareness and knowledge on proper improved practices for key crops and livestock is
greater than 90% among farmers.
47.      However, whereas there is success in infusing knowledge among farmers, there is still a large gap
in putting that knowledge into practice, and therefore getting the right skills, by many farmers as illustrated
below.
Adoption rates for improved practices and yield changes
48.      It would appear that even among various techniques necessary for improving productivity of crops
and livestock, farmers have a tendency to adopt some faster than others. Even though, the proportion of
adopters is far less than those aware of the technologies.
49.      Among the practices which NAEPII appear to have made the largest impact in adoptions over
years is the importance of plant spacing and use of improved seeds. Though improved seed is also
selectively adopted depending on the profitability of the crop, farmers practising proper spacing and using
improved seeds (of one crop or another) increased from 41% and 48% in 1998/99 to 72% and 55% in
2002/03, respectively. This indicates that even when using local seeds, they use proper spacing.
50.      As expected, even though adoptions have been selective, those practising improved technologies
have managed to substantially increase crop and livestock yields over time, with annual fluctuations due to
vagaries of weather. Paddy appear to have made the largest gain in yield, mostly due to the adoption of
water harvesting techniques, use of seedbeds before transplanting, proper plant spacing and use of
improved varieties. According to 2000 survey data, paddy yield had increased by 184%, and that for beans
by 139% and maize and sorghum by 33% and 63%, respectively compared to baseline year of 1996. The
yield results for 2002/03 were slightly lower because of draught which affected most districts.
51.      Results from sample farmers in Zanzibar also indicate the same trend, where adoption for
improved seed/planting material is highest for cassava and yam varieties (64% used improved varieties),
followed by potatoes (60%). By applying FYM, practising farmers have doubled cassava and banana
yields to 17t/ha and 15t/ha, respectively, and tripled potato yields to 25t/ha. The reasons given for
non-adoption of improved technologies such as use of FYM and improved planting material include costs
associated with the technology (e.g. bulkiness of FYM and transport costs) and labour supply constraints.

Changes in farmer's income and livelihoods
52.      Results from Beneficiary studies for 1999 and 2003 indicate that more than 95% of farmers relied
on both crop and livestock husbandry as their primary sources of income. Changes in income levels can
better be explained by looking at indicators related to quality of housing, ownership of capital- intensive
assets and expenditure levels in household needs. Time series studies for the period of project
implementation show that the proportion of household owning quality houses (with iron sheets) increased
fro 49% in 2001 to 64% in 2003. Those owning productive tools such as ox-ploughs increased by 11% in
2001 to 17% in 2003. Those owning bicycles and transistor radios increased from 55% and 52% in 2001 to
65% and 82% in 2003, respectively (NAEPII Beneficiary assessment study, 2003).

IV.      SUSTAINABILITY OF THE ACHIEVEMENTS

Institutional Strengthening
53.      Project organs at the national level, such as the Steering Committee can only be sustained if all
stakeholders contributing to the Committee appreciate the project tasks as common challenges. However,
the dedication of DMTs at District levels was lower than that of the dissolved DESCs, due to the
multi-sectoral responsibility of DMTs.
54.      The creation of grassroots farmer-based institutions to coordinate both demand for, and provision
of extension services, appear to be the key to long terms sustainability of a demand-driven extension


                                                     - 49 -

services. However, the development of this system will depend much on the appreciation and political of
civic leaders at the ward and district levels. At the moment, there is little evidence that Local Councils are
willing to mobilise and allocate resources to adequately extension services delivery.
55.       Farmer groups, including those operated as FFS and FRGs have institutionalised leadership
structures and election process, including collection and management of funds. These are core features for
good governance which contributes to sustainability. However, there will be still need to continue providing
technical and management backstopping to such groups before they mature and transform into viable
economic groups.
56.       However, the system of voluntary FAMOs and Paravets is doubted by some if it can be sustainable
due to the long term opportunity cost of time foregone by the volunteers. The LGAs should play an active
role in partially offsetting the costs of supporting the FAMOs and Paravets from members' funds.
57.       The collaborative meetings with other stakeholders which were held under NAEPII depended on
the project's budget. No plans were made to create self-sustaining networks. It's doubtful if such
collaborative meetings will continue beyond NAEPII.
58.       One of the common pitfalls in most Monitoring and Evaluation systems is the erroneous
assumption of taking M&E tasks as exogenous to the normal duties of extension managers, SMSs and
frontline staff. As such personnel take no keen interest in understanding the systems and what key
indicators to be collected and reported. It's always left to one or two people to deal with M&E system. The
system of approaching beneficiaries only during case studies to "gather data" is least sustainable compared
to the benefits of involving beneficiaries and designing a participatory self-monitoring system.
59.       The participation of key stakeholders in the development of key features of Vision 2010 and
Extension Framework ensures that it can be continuously revised through regular consultations in the
course of implementing its strategic interventions.

Extension Education and Training
60.       The sustainability of the trained manpower can be viewed from two angles: that of maintaining the
staff as government of employees or self-sustaining in private sectors contracts or self-employment as
farmers or advisors. With the budgetary constraints of the LGA, and indeed the Central Government, it is
doubtful that they could be sustainably employed at well motivating packages compared to the private
sector, provided infrastructure and market conditions are improved to allows for a spontaneous growth of
agriculture production and agro-processing.
61.       The training institutions had an opportunity to improve on their infrastructure and teaching syllabi,
thanks to NAEPII. Lecturers and tutors got chances to supervise field-tested extension professionals, an
exchange which is desirable in upgrading their professional competence. It is hoped that this experience will
be passed on to other students joining the institutions in the future.
62.       More than 50 officers were sponsored for post-graduate studies (M.Sc), which involved research
work as part of postgraduate theses. The results of from these scholars could selectively form agenda for
further actions or implementation by government. However, there was no forum at the ministry level to
receive these recommendations and debate their suitability for further action.
63.       The trained manpower has knowledge and skills which could be tapped by the private sector.

Information and Communication Support
64.       The Information Centres/ZCCs are operated as government departments, providing highly
subsidised services, whose sustainability depends on the budgetary allocation. At the moment, the LGAs
are still less eager to contribute towards the operation of Zone Research Centres, citing lack of financial
resources.
65.       Historical dependence on government-owned media made it possible to have subsidised information
print media and radio programme. However, with the advent of privately owned newspapers and radio/TV,
the historical budget could not sustain reaching out to these alternative channels. Indeed, even


                                                      - 50 -

government-owned radio and TV stations now charge commercial rates, squeezing even further resources
for information dissemination.
66.      However, it is expected that the trained manpower provides a useful professional pool to be
sourced by NGOs and the private sector involved in education and information dissemination.
Pilot Initiatives for Extension Methodologies
67.      Most of the initiatives, though quite successful, are centred on donor-funded projects, raising
doubts on their sustainability without the subsidy provided in their undertakings.
68.      The profitability and sustainability of seed multiplication and input supply ventures depends much
on the number of customers for the inputs. Moreover, the viability of improved seeds produced from
foundation seeds depends on quality control back-up supposed to be provided by the Crop Inspectorate
units at the district level. The efficiency of such services will depend on the commitment of LGAs in
financing agriculture.
69.      For the farmer-based extension service providers, their viability and sustainability will depend on
the willingness of farmers to pay for services provided by professional extension agents, FAMOs and
Paravets.
70.      FAMOs and Paravets were provided with loans for bicycles as an incentive for their voluntary
services. This system is likely to sustain if LGAs recognise their roles and allocate funds for their support.
Adaptive Research
71.      Since extension services are still subsidised, their important roles of Research Stations in
spearheading R&D will continue to depend on government budgetary allocations. However, the long term
solution is to facilitate a private-sector led high value agricultural production, agro-processing and
exportation, which could then afford to pay for the costs of R&D. The cases for mangoes and spices in
Zanzibar are pointers towards this direction.
72.      As with the cases of pilot initiatives in the Mainland, the success in technological adoptions
depends on the potentials for profitable farming. This in turn is depended on type of enterprise promoted
and market potentials.

V.       LESSONS LEARNED

Institutional Strengthening
73.      Institutional guidance is likely to be better provided by task-specific organs, like was the case with
DESCs, compared to multi-sectoral supervising organs like the DMT.
74.      Despite the noble-goal of decentralising extension services delivery to the districts, there is an
appreciation-gap among civic leaders on the importance of extension services to agricultural productivity
and income generation. The excuse given is lack of funds to finance to extension, despite agriculture
providing the bulk of district wealth/revenue.
75.      There were opportunities which were not adequately exploited in transforming some of the
stakeholders' meetings involving people with common interests into regular fora or networks for
exchanging information and views on extension, research and farmer-extension-research linkages,
marketing and pressure groups for input supply improvements.
76.      Though it is formally acceptable and institutionalised, and tends to work given resource
availability, a top-down M&E system is not sustainable for development process monitoring.
77.      It's good practice to involve all stakeholders in developing important policy documents such as the
Vision and Extension Framework, 2010. However, the process would have been more complete if more
consultations were done at the grassroots level.

Extension Education and Training
78.      The trained manpower, including FAMOs and Paravets provide important human resource pool
not only to government and projects, but to NGOs and private sector operators.


                                                       - 51 -

79.      Given the opportunity and resources, local training institutions can be transformed to centres of
excellence. However, their sustainability still depends on government and project funding to sponsor
students.
80.      There was a lost chance in ensuring that research findings by Masters-degree students were
adequately synthesized for possible action plans.

Information and Communication Support
81.      Farmers have over time diversified their sources of information for improved agricultural
production. There is an increasing role of private FM stations and newspapers in providing cocktails of
educational and entertainment dossier.
82.      There is a need to seek for more budgetary allocations so as to diversify information outlets and
repackage information to appeal to a new generation of audience.
Pilot Initiatives for Extension Methodologies
83.      Although most farmers are knowledgeable, adoption of improved technological packages is
constrained by, among others, structural and infrastructural deficiencies characterised by poor accessibility
to rural areas, leading to poor and untimely input supply system and uncompetitive producer prices; lack of
affordable credit facilities; and ignorance on enterprises with highest comparative advantage in different
agro-ecological zones.
84.      Though most of the pilot initiatives seemed to produce promising results, there is still a feeling that
they require more time to mature and graduate into self-sustaining grass-roots farmer-led initiatives.
85.      Despite the promising indicative results from the micro-projects, it is still doubtful if LGAs would
go a long way in supporting them in the absence of projects which are currently collaborating with the
District Councils.

Adaptive Research
86.      The choice of enterprises to be tested for adoption is not based on sound cost-benefit analysis and
comparative advantages of different agro-ecological zones.
87.      Some of the promising enterprise which farmers could easily adopt and grow profitably, lack a
clearly defined marketing system and support policies.
88.      The use of FFS and FRGs have strengthened linkages between farmers, extension agents and
researchers, and therefore easing the learning and adoption processes.
89.      Use of participatory methodologies has empowered farmers in the decision-making processes.

VI.      RECOMMENDATIONS

90.      Drawing from discussions above, the following can be recommended:

Institutional Strengthening
91.      Managements organs should be created with more specific responsibilities, rather than depending
on those charged with multiple or cross-sectoral tasks.
92.      More efforts should continue to raise awareness among district leaders on the importance of, and
their role in promoting a demand-driven extension services funded from local resources and diversified to
spread the costs of delivery.
93.      Some efforts should also be taken to learn lessons from experiences within the country where
cost-sharing extension service delivery has been practices by NGOs and projects.
94.      A participatory, beneficiary self-assessment M&E system should be encouraged in future
interventions. Moreover, managers and technical personnel should be re-oriented on the basics of an
effective participatory M&E system.
95.      The Government should include milestones for regular stakeholder reviews of the implementation


                                                     - 52 -

of strategies under the Extension Framework 2010.
96.      All factors remaining constant, an effective extension system with positive results from acquired
knowledge and skills, will ultimately depend on reliable market for inputs and products, which calls active
collaboration of all stakeholders. That is why LGAs will have to take more centre stage in agricultural
management and development.
97.      The Government of Zanzibar might consider preparing its own Extension Vision and Framework
for the Islands.
98.      In financing arrangements, there was concern that the size of Special Account was not big enough
to allow for a faster disbursement of funds.

Extension Education and Training
99.      The supported training institutions should be assisted to come with long-term student recruitment
and/or re-training plans from the private sector, instead of depending on government-sponsored students.
100.     Future extension materials should be more integrated, bringing in other life skills and messages
such as HIV/AIDS, gender mainstreaming, marketing and enterprise management.
101.     In future, there should be a forum for receiving and synthesising research findings from sponsored
students in higher learning institutions.
102.     Professionals should also be given skills of running private enterprise or NGOs so that they are
ready to provide their expertise upon retirement.
Information and Communication Support
103.     More budgetary allocation to Communication/Information Centres to take advantage of the
alternative mass media outputs for information and education dissemination.
104.     Possibility of multiplying for commercial sales some interesting video titles should be explored.
Pilot Initiatives for Extension Methodologies
105.     More investment of resources in opening up rural areas for ease of accessibility to allow cost
effective delivery of inputs and more competitive procurement of produce.
106.     The use of FAMOs and Paravets as part of national extension delivery system should be
considered. Meanwhile, an informal incentive system should be supported by beneficiaries so as to motivate
the volunteers.
107.     Efforts to be taken to develop village-based input supply systems, starting with farmer economic
groups and private shop owners.
108.     The potentials and benefits from a private-operated extension system are enormous. More work at
policy level should be done to encourage that system.

Adaptive Research
109.     More work to be done in advising farmers on the comparative advantage of different enterprises
from a cost-benefit angle based on evolving market conditions. This way, efforts on on-farm research and
trials will be cost effectively invested in the most profitable enterprises by ranking.
The recommendations above will work better if there is coordination in weather information gathering,
forecasting, and crop/livestock monitoring early warning.




                                                      - 53 -

Additional Annex 13. Summary of Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar ICR

This document represents the terminal report of the National Agricultural Extension Project- Phase II
(NAEP II), Zanzibar Component which was implemented from May, 2000 to December, 2003. The Project
was originally planned to close in December, 2002 but IDA granted one year extension to complete planned
activities. A total of US $ 2.5 million was earmarked by the IDA towards implementing the project in
Zanzibar. As counterpart fund contribution, the Government of Zanzibar was required to provide an
equivalent of US $ 100,000 for the entire project period.

The main objective of the project was to support the Government's objective of increasing food production
and farm incomes through building the capacity of the institutions responsible for generation and
dissemination of agricultural technologies and promotion of participatory research and extension in
agriculture. Emphasis was targeted on resource poor farmers, including women. The major food crops
which include cassava, sweet potatoes, yams, and pulses were the candidate crops for this project.
Basically, IDA support through NAEP II was to enable the Government of Zanzibar to complete critical
activities left behind unfinished by the phased out IFAD- funded Smallholder Support Project (1991 
1997) in areas of adaptive research, institutional strengthening, and extension activities.

As of November, 2003, the project had managed to spend a total amount of US $ 2.0 million (79% of the
allocated funds) from IDA and the Government of Zanzibar had during the period released US $ 125, 030
(125% of the commitment) towards implementing the project. Achievement of the project include
completion of planned civil works at Kizimbani and Matangatuani, which include construction of seven
residential staff houses, a student dormitory (to accommodate 50 students), establishment of training farms
(poultry and cow sheds, fencing paddocks and rehabilitation of a milking parlour and cattle dip). Besides
civil work construction, a number of vehicles, equipment and goods were procured as planned.

In the course of project implementation, a total of 144 staff were trained in various disciplines both locally
and regionally. The purpose was to equip the staff with adequate skills and knowledge to better serve the
farming communities. Farmers training was also among priority activities of the project. During the project
implementation period a total of 11,082 were trained (male 5,217 and female 5,265). Farmers were trained
through well established Farmers Field Schools, Farmers Research Groups and were also trained through
organised residential courses, Farmers Field Days, Study tours, On- farm demonstrations and through mass
media. The impact of training has been significant in terms of farmers empowerment and capacity building
and increase in agricultural productivity.

The Project also supported food crops research programme encompasses work on banana, root crops
(cassava, sweet potatoes and yams) and legumes (mostly cowpeas and pigeon peas). The research work
was conducted both on- station and on- farm. With on- farm research, farmers were involved in all stages
of the research work, right from problem identification to the evaluation of the research results. The aspects
looked at with the on-going research programme include screening of local and introduced varieties of
candidate crops for their tolerance to pests and diseases, yields and their responses to farm yard manure
applications. Results from the on 춆arm trials have shown that three improved varieties of cassava clones
(ZNZ/98/036, ZNZ/98/031 and ZNZ/98/084) are relatively tolerant to pests and diseases and therefore
ranked highly by farmers. Farmers also showed preference to local varieties of Boma and Kibiriti Mweusi
which were also found to be less susceptible to pests and diseases infestation.

Furthermore, results from on- farm trials have identified the yam variety Tona to be superior over other
screened varieties (Majoka, Mwendachi, and Zambarau) due to its yield potential. The Variety Tona



                                                     - 54 -

recorded average yield of 40.5 t/ha compared to Majoka (31.0 t/ha), Mwendachi (19.0 t/ha), and Zambarau
(17.0 t/ha). With sweet potatoes, among the seven varieties that were evaluated (TIB-4, Salyboro, Zapallo,
Tainung 65, W- 151, SPN/O and Shangazi), three varieties were ranked highly by farmers. The varieties
that were found superior over the others are Zapallo (15.6 t/ha) SPN/O (13.0 t/ha)

In addition, the adaptive research sub- component maintained germplasms for all candidate crops. These
germplasms were maintained at Kizimbani and Matangatuani Agricultural Stations and were meant to
serve as a source of planting materials for future research programme.

On assessing the impact of project intervention, out of 112 interviewed cassava growers, 72 percent were
found to have already started adopting the use of recommended varieties of Boma and Kibiriti Mweusi.
Furthermore, it was found out that yield of cassava has increased two times more for farmers using
recommended varieties (17.0 t/ha) compared to average yields of cassava of farmers still not using
recommended varieties (8.0 t/ha). For those farmers using recommended varieties and organic manure,
recorded yields are on average of 20.0 t/ha. Average yields of yams under farmers conditions are 25.0 t/ha
for farmers using the recommended variety of Tona and organic manure and only 8.0 t/ha for farmers using
other yams varieties with no manure.

With sweet potatoes, 60 percent of the sampled farmers (n = 42) were found to have adopted the use of
recommended varieties (SPN/O and Zapallo). Yield records show that farmers who use recommended
varieties obtain on average 13.0 t/ha as compared to the average yields obtained by farmers using not
recommended varieties (6.0 t/ha).

Following the achievement made through NAEP II and from the results of field experimentation and
demonstration, it is recommended that adaptive research and extension activities be sustained to verify
findings and disseminate innovations to farmers in order to have wider economic impact on the farming
communities.




                                                     - 55 -

- 56 -

