Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15117-TA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT - PHASE II
June 5, 1996
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          =     Tanzania Shilling (Tshs.)
USS1.00                =      Tshs. 620
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ASMP        Agriculture Sector Management Project
ACE         Assistant Commissioner Extension
CALD       Commissioner Agriculture and Livestock Development
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
DALDO       District Agriculture & Livestock Development Officer
DC          District Commissioner
DEO         District Extension Officer
DESC        District Extension Steering Committee
EU          Extension Unit
FEPU        Field Education and Publicity Unit
GOT         Government of Tanzania
IDA         International Development Association
IFAD        International Fund for Agricultural Development
MOA         Ministry of Agriculture
NAEP        National Agricultural Extension Project
NALERP    National Agriculture and Livestock Extension Rehabilitation Project
NCB         National Competitive Bidding
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
PIP         Project Implementation Plan
PSC         Project Steering Committee
REO         Regional Extension Office
RALDO       Regional Agriculture & Livestock Development Officer
SMS         Subject Matter Specialist
ZCC         Zonal Communication Center
ZCO         Zonal Communications Officer



THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT - PHASE II
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..............................................                                                                           I
1. COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND ..............................................                                                                     I
A. BACKGROUND .............................................. I
B. MAIN SECTOR ISSUES .............................................. I
C. SECTOR STRATEGY ..............................................                                                                                   2
2. THE PROJECT ..............................................                                                                                       3
A. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT ..............................................                                                                     3
B.  LESSONS LEARNED FROM  PREVIOUS BANK INVOLVEMENT .............................................. 3
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ..............................................                                                                                4
D. PROJECT DESCRIPTION ..............................................                                                                               4
E. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ..............................................                                                                       7
F.  PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT, ACCOUNTS AND AUDITING .............................................. 7
G. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..............................................                                                                            8
H. MONITORING AND EVALUATION .............................................. 9
3. ASSESSMENTS ..............................................                                                                                       9
A. TECHNICAL ASSESSMENT ..............................................                                                                              9
B. INSTITUTIONAL ASSESSMENT ..............................................                                                                         10
C. ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT ..............................................                                                                              10
D. FINANCIAL ASSESSMENT ..............................................                                                                             12
E.  ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT ............................................................................................... 1 3
F. SOCIAL AND GENDER RESPONSIVENESS ..................................... 1 3
G. SUSTAINABILITY .....................................                                                                                            13
H. BENEFITS ......................................14
1. RISKS ..................................... 14
4. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION .....................................                                                                             14
A. ASSURANCES AND AGREEMENT ...........................1.4....................                                                                 .... 14
B. RECOMMENDATION ............15
ANNEXES
1.         Project Cost Summary, Financing Plan, Disbursement Plan, Procurement Plan
2.         Components Project Cost Summary
3.         Procurement, Disbursement, Accounts and Auditing
4.         Economic Analysis
5.         Research Extension Linkages
6.         Outline of Project Implementation Plan
7.         Documents in Project File
MAPS
IBRD No. 27641






THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                United Republic of Tanzania
Implementing Agencies:   Ministry of Agriculture and Co-operatives
Beneficiaries:           Smallholder Population; Government
Poverty:                 Yes
Amount:                  SDR 21.5 million (US$31.1 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard with 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:          Standard (a variable rate between 0-0.50 percent of the undisbursed
credit balance, set annually by the Executive Directors of IDA).
Financing Plan:          Paragraph 2.14
Net Present Value:       US $28.7 million at 12 percent discount rate
Economic Rate of Return: 25 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:   Report No. 15117-TA
Map:                     IBRD 27641
Project ID:              TZ -PA -2753






THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT - PHASE II
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1.    COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. BACKGROUND
1.1   The agricultural sector is the foundation of the Tanzanian economy: it contributes
more than 50 percent to the country's GDP, 75 percent to export earnings and provides 84
percent of total employment. The sector continues to be critically important in
Tanzania's drive to increase economic growth and reduce poverty. The agricultural
economy is in the hands of some 3.5 million smallholder farmers: 93 percent of all farm
families cultivate less than 2 hectares each. Food crop production dominates the sector,
with livestock production and cash crop production second and third in importance in
terms of contribution to agricultural GDP. Good agricultural land is plentiful relative to
population but under utilized, and considerable potential for intensification and managed,
sustainable horizontal expansion exists. In a drive to increase smallholder productivity, a
National Agricultural and Livestock Extension Project (NALERP) has been supported by
IDA since June 1989, and was put in place following an IDA supported pilot effort which
introduced T&V-based agricultural extension in five districts. This project, effective in
June 1989, was considered the first phase of a long-term program to establish an efficient,
unified, cost-effective, and sustainable national agricultural extension service for
smallholder crop and livestock production. The project covers 16 of the 20 regions of
mainland Tanzania. The other four regions are served by the IFAD supported Southern
Highlands Extension and Rural Financial Services Project. The first extension project
focuses on merging crop and livestock extension services into a multi-disciplinary
system; strengthening extension management and organization, upgrading the quality of
extension personnel, providing physical infrastructure and logistical support to the system
and increasing farmers production and income. The first phase has achieved many of its
objectives. It is scheduled to close on June 30, 1996 about one year ahead of the original
closing date, as all the funding under IDA has been disbursed or committed.
B. MAIN SECTOR ISSUES
1.2   Despite a favorable resource base for agricultural production, Tanzanian
agriculture is characterized by very low labor and land productivity, little use of improved
genetic material and animal traction and very low use of commercial inputs. Marketing
of agricultural produce particularly livestock and products is a serious constraint in
several areas.



-2-
1.3   Despite several reforms geared towards economic recovery, the agricultural sector
management to speed up development and increase production and productivity continues
to be weak. The weakness has particularly been noted in the areas of policy management,
inadequate institutional and financial framework to manage a market oriented agricultural
economy, rural infrastructure and, until recently, too much Government dominance in
management of the sector with declining resources. Adoption of recommended cultural
practices is improving production on smallholder farms, but availability of inputs, credit
and marketing continue to be major constraints. Traditionally the Government staff
including extensionists have not paid adequate attention to participatory approach in the
past. Several NGO and farmer led initiatives have supplemented extension delivery of
the public extension service with cost sharing but these relationships have not been
formally integrated into the extension system nor has their potential to reduce public costs
and improve quality of extension service been fully exploited. In the past the
Government discouraged private sector entry to provide extension services in crops of
their interest but now MOA issues no objection to such requests. However, this new
policy initiative needs to be integrated into an overall MOA strategy to seek partners to
reduce public sector extension costs.
C. SECTOR STRATEGY
1.4   The Government's overall goals and strategy for the agricultural sector are
articulated in the recently updated National Agricultural and Livestock Policy. The main
objectives of the policy are to promote food security, improve national nutrition
standards, generate foreign exchange, and raise rural income levels and alleviate poverty.
The policy emphasis on strategies for full exploitation of agricultural potential includes
investments in agricultural extension and research, diversification of food and export
crops, development of livestock production, integrated and sustainable use of natural
resources, and development of human resources within the sector.
1.5   Since 1986 as a part of the national economic recovery program major changes
have taken place in the agricultural sector. Besides the devaluation of the Tanzanian
currency and complete decontrol of the foreign exchange market which have benefited
export crop products, the Government has increased producer prices in real terms,
liberalized the marketing of food grains and some export crops, and allowed the private
sector to deal with agricultural input marketing and distribution. The competition in a
free market environment has benefited farmers. In terms of initiatives supported under
the IDA funded Agriculture Sector Management Project (ASMP) the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) is going through a rationalization and downsizing process, limiting
its core functions to research and extension, regulation and policy formulation, and
management. This project also includes a review of sector expenditures and a revision of
the sector investment program, for which IDA has offered its assistance. The resulting
investment program could be the basis for an Agricultural Sector Investment Project. In
parallel, the Government has embarked on a major reform initiative under which the
Government role would be limited to the core functions of governance, the commercial
and non-essential activities would be given off to the private sector, the roles and



-3-
functions of the Ministries would be rationalized and consequently the civil service
downsized. The regional government is proposed to be restructured and slimmed down,
and the district focus enhanced by transferring resources from the regional level to the
districts and making district administrations community based.
2.    THE PROJECT
A. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
2.1   The proposed project reflects the country's development objectives and the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The central focus of the CAS is to support
growth with poverty reduction, and accelerating growth in agriculture is at the core of this
strategy. The emphasis is on assisting peasant farmers in adopting more productive
technologies, including high-yielding varieties, which is the basic objective of the
proposed project. The project is designed to (i) continue to support efforts to reshape the
role of the MOA limiting its core functions to policy formulation, regulation, extension
and research; (ii) increase participation in the development process by enhancing farmers'
role in the generation and dissemination of technology; (iii) develop the human resource
base through the training of farmers and extension staff; and (iv) increase agricultural
growth and smallholder incomes. IDA is well placed to continue to strengthen the
extension service in Tanzania given its involvement in a series of initiatives within the
agricultural sector. These include the National Agriculture and Livestock Research
Project (Cr. 1970-TA) which has established the basic framework for technology
generation in agriculture. IDA is supporting agricultural research and extension programs
in over thirty countries in Sub Sahara Africa and can disseminate lessons learned across
countries. The support to this project is consistent with IDA's strategy to focus on core
areas of support in agriculture, including research, extension, animal health, and natural
resources management and to concentrate on systemic solutions as time slices of long-
term national programs.
B. LESSONS LEARNED FROM PREVIOUS BANK INVOLVEMENT
2.2   The lessons, in particular those related to the cost effectiveness of the extension
program, would be incorporated in the proposed project. Experience under the ongoing
operation shows that the Government's strategy in implementing the extension program
has been correct: i.e. to combine the crop and livestock extension into a unified service in
the field; to create a unified line of command for the extension service; to upgrade the
skills of a large number of extensionists; and to move towards providing extension
services to groups of farmers instead of individuals. Experience shows that effort made
to focus on farmers' groups means farmers transfer technology and leam best practices
from each other. The Government is concerned to take into account three main lessons
learned: (i) to focus on the financial sustainability of the service, collaborating with
NGOs and private agro-industries (tobacco, tea, sisal, etc.) where possible; (ii) to focus
on farmers' participation in the generation and dissemination of technology; and (iii) to



-4-
support the dissemination of technology with the use of appropriate communication
technology.
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.3   The main objective of the project would be td continue to improve the delivery of
extension service to smallholder farmers for increasing their incomes and productivity,
while improving its relevance, sustainability and cost effectiveness. The proposed NAEP
II will follow the essential elements of the training and visit system of agricultural
extension. It would seek to work using the participatory approach, giving an effective
role and voice to farmers. The extension service will reinforce the group approach in
farmer consultation, message delivery and problem solving and will facilitate the
addressing of farmer problems such as the development issues. It will initiate the process
of private sector/NGO/farmer participation in extension with cost sharing, including
selective privatization, where feasible. Select agricultural training institutions will be
strengthened. The project is expected to result in yield increases for major crops and
livestock of about 10-20 percent over a five-year period. Institutional development
would include training for about 800 village and divisional extension officers and some
1300 subject matter specialists and managers, and enhanced management information and
M&E systems.
D. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.4   The project will be implemented in 16 regions of mainland Tanzania. The project
will have four main components.
Institutional Strengthening (US$15.7 million including contingencies):
2.5   The project will continue the re-organization and strengthening of the extension
service at MOA headquarters and the field services to enhance effective project direction
and management, strengthen districts' roles, improve linkages and put in place an
effective monitoring and evaluation system. The project will support the following
specific activities: (a) increasing the number of full time Subject Matter Specialists
(SMSs) available to extension by placing all SMSs under District Extension Officer, and
locating at least three SMSs at below district headquarters (i.e. Divisional) level; the
number of SMSs at district headquarters will be re-assessed and rationalized; (b)
establishing a Project Steering Committee (PSC) under the chairmanship of Principal
Secretary, MOA, at the Central level for project direction and management; and a District
Extension Steering Committee under the District Commissioner for program review and
providing support for farmer mobilization, raising resources locally and resolving farmer
problems; (c) enhancing farmer -research-extension linkages described in Annex 4; (d)
dispensing with services of 902 village extensionists adjudged by MOA to be unsuitable
and not trainable and rationalizing village extensionists' work areas; and (e) establishing
a monitoring and evaluation system comprising of: (i) a management information system
(MIS) focusing on annual measurement of outputs and inputs; (ii) impact evaluation and



-5-
beneficiary assessment feedback; (iii) surveys and contingent evaluations; (iv) data bank,
data processing, analysis and reporting; and (v) training of M&E staff.
2.6   The project will support provision of vehicles, equipment and furniture,
rehabilitation of field offices, construction of a limited number of residential houses in
critical areas where rented accommodation is unavailable, and recurrent operating costs
of vehicles, field supervision and maintenance allowances. During negotiations, the
contractual agreement between the Government and the front-line extension staff for the
use of the motorcycles and bicycles provided to them on loan was reviewed and found
satisfactory.
Extension Education and Training (US$12.6 million):
2.7   The project will support the training of extension staff including trainers, farmers
and provide support to select training institutions. The training programs will aim to
enhance the effectiveness of technology transfer, more effective farmer-extension
research linkages, development support to farming, and addressing gender issues related
to agriculture. A needs assessment will precede new training programs and a process of
training evaluation to feed into future training programs will ensure relevance and
effectiveness. The knowledge and skills at each level would be upgraded through a mix
of regular courses, especially designed retraining, refresher and upgradation courses,
higher diploma courses, workshops, seminars and dissemination of relevant information
through print and other mass media.
2.8   Specific training and education programs would include: (a) Staff Training:
(i) 446 field assistants adjudged trainable to undergo one-year upgradation course;
(ii) 101 certificate holders (backlog) to be retrained under a one-year course; and 800
diploma holder Village Extension Officers/Divisional Extension Officers
(VEOs/DIVEOs) to take a three-month especially designed course in crop and livestock
production; (iii) extension managers and SMSs (1300 nos) to undergo two to four weeks
refresher courses in group dynamics, participatory approach, communication support
skills, development support to production, management skills; (iv) front-line extension
staff to be trained in practical skills of group working, participatory extension,
communication, facilitating development support, through the Bi-Monthly Workshops
(BMWs) and Monthly Training Sessions (MTSs) by extending sessions of these
meetings; (v) these skills of staff covered under (iii) and (iv) above to be further enhanced
through study visits relevant to major program concerns; (vi) forty extension
managers/SMSs with diploma qualifications to be deputed for graduate courses;
(vii) post-graduate and higher diploma courses for 80 extension managers/trainers/SMSs
to be planned by Sokoine University of Agriculture (SUA) in collaboration with
international institutions, as needed; some of these training courses will be designed to
include a training abroad in courses grounded in SUA; (viii) a two-week overseas
sensitization capsule to be developed for a limited number of extension managers and
trainers in group development, participatory approach to extension, women's issues and
credit support to self-help groups; and (ix) limited provision for training of staff of



-6-
ministries represented on the PSC; (b) Farmer Training: (i) 500 one-week residential
courses for leaders of farmer/women/youth groups; (ii) 5000 one-day on-site training for
members of farmer groups; (iii) farm study tours; (iv) technical information
bulletin/materials to farmers and demonstrations. A minimum of 30 percent of the places
in training courses will be reserved for women and about 30 percent for youth (M/F);
(c) Training Institutes: Between themselves the eight Ministry of Agriculture Training
Institutes (MATIs) and Livestock Training Institutes (LITIs) and two Farmer Training
Centers (FTCs) supported by the Sokoine University of Agriculture (SUA) have adequate
capacity to conduct the proposed training courses; and (d) Training Coordination:
Government will establish a Training Coordination Committee (TCC) to finalize the
annual training plan, review training curricula and training progress, facilitate networking
between training institutions, and give directions for overall management of training
support.
2.9   The project will finance the costs of training, needs assessment study and
monitoring and evaluation and provide financial support to the training institutes which
will include teaching aids including library, laboratory equipment and chemicals, farm
equipment and structures, equipment for livestock production and agribusiness units,
office equipment, audio-visual aids, limited provisioning of furniture and equipment for
classrooms and hostels, and limited rehabilitation of civil works.
Communications Support (US$2.9 million):
2.10  The project will assist in operationalizing Government strategy to decentralize
information management to the Zonal level for an effective response to the area-specific
information needs of the farming communities. The project will finance civil works
(rehabilitation of zonal offices), communication support equipment, vehicles, and a
budget for materials production, field visits and essential operating costs. The following
specific activities will be supported: (a) establishment of seven Zonal Communication
Centers (ZCCs) of which six will be funded by the proposed Credit, and the seventh
namely the Southern Highlands ZCC will be funded by IFAD-supported Southern
Highlands Extension and Rural Financial Services Project. The ZCCs will also serve as a
forum for research-extension linkage in jointly determining communication strategies and
choice of material for extensionists, SMSs, researchers and farmers. In the first year only
two ZCCs will be established, and based on the lessons learned from their operation the
remaining ZCCs will be established from project year 3 onwards; (b) reorganization of
MOA's Field Extension and Publicity Unit (FEPU): the reorganized FEPU will have
seven sub-units and will work with a professional staff of 19 (instead of 34 at present); (c)
a Needs Assessment study will be carried out, and its findings will form the basis for
zonal communication strategies; (d) overseas training will be provided to two radio
program staff in radio script writing and one professional staff in social marketing and
participatory techniques; a consultant will be engaged for three months to train core ZCC
staff in communication skills and use of audio-visual aids; the trained staff will then
provide training to other staff and field extensionists. FEPU will be encouraged to
selectively outsource production of information material.



-7-
Pilot Initiatives (US$1.7 million):
2.11 The project will pilotize initiatives to improve extension management, technology
transfer, inter-linkages between farmer-extension-research, participation of other
providers in extension delivery, seeds production and input supply, farner empowerment
and gender impact. Some of these initiatives will be tried to improve operations of the
current extension system, others would need separate project outlines and funding
support. Nine pilots had already been identified by the Government task force. More
pilots may be identified and executed during NAEP II implementation. Government will
formulate projects for the identified pilot initiative, as needed, in an agreed format to be
described in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP), and obtain IDA's no-objection before
implementation. Lessons learned from the pilot initiatives will be appropriately adopted
to improve/restructure NAEP II.
2.12  Besides, the project will also finance a few short term technical assistance and
consultancies, support to NGOs and fanner groups for pilot initiatives and other specified
project activities; recurrent non-salary operating costs and salary costs of a limited
number of incremental project staff hired on contract basis.
E. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
2.13  A breakdown of project costs, financing plan, and the disbursement plan are
shown in Annex 2. The total cost of the project is estimated at Tshs.22.07 billion or
US$32.94 million equivalent. Foreign exchange costs are estimated at US$10.70 million
or about 33 percent of total project cost including contingencies. Project costs include
physical contingencies equivalent to US$0.635 million (2 percent of total project costs)
and price contingencies of US$3.94 million (14 percent).
2.14  The proposed credit of US$3 1.1 million would finance about 95 percent of total
project costs. Government contribution of US$1.8 million, mainly for recurrent costs,
civil works and salary costs would finance about 5 percent of total project costs.
Government share would include funds raised from cess imposed on cash crops and made
available to the program. To ensure timely availability of adequate counterpart funds, the
Borrower will (a) include the necessary counterpart funds (Tsh. 180 million/year) in its
annual budget; (b) open a project account (local currency) and a special account (US
dollars) in a commercial bank approved by the Bank of Tanzania; (c) make provision of
at least Tshs180 million for project activities in the Government budget of fiscal year
1996/97; and (d) every year by July 31 furnish evidence to IDA that amounts provided in
the budget for the project in the previous year were released in a timely manner for the
intended purposes. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
F. PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT, ACCOUNTS AND AUDITING
2.15  The details of procurement, disbursement, accounts and auditing are provided in
Annex 2. IDA would finance: (a) goods totalling about US$2.93 million to be procured



-8-
through international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures; (b) works and goods
totalling about US$3.6 million to be procured through national competitive bidding
(NCB) procedures; and (c) goods, works and services totalling about US$2.63 million to
be procured through other procedures. The proposed IDA credit of US$3 1.1 million
would be disbursed over five years, with disbursements to be completed by June 30,
2001. To facilitate disbursements, a special account would be established and operated in
a commercial bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Project accounts
would be audited by the Comptroller and Auditor General of Tanzania or by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and reports on such statements will be provided to IDA within
six months after the close of each fiscal year. Assurances to this effect were received at
negotiations.
G. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
2.16 MOA will have overall responsibility for implementing the NAEP II . The
Assistant Commissioner (Extension), under Commissioner Agriculture and Livestock
Development and the Principal Secretary MOA, as head of the Ministry's Extension Unit
(EU) will be the principal officer-in-charge for project implementation. A Project
Steering Committee (PSC) will be established under the chairmanship of the Principal
Secretary, MOA and comprising of Principal Secretaries of Ministry of Finance (MOF);
Planning Commission; Prime Minister's Office; Ministry of Community Development,
Women and Children; Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs; heads of
departments of MOA and a representative each of the farmers, other extension providers
(private sector/NGO/parastatal) with Assistant Commissioner (Extension) as member-
Secretary to address policy issues, approve annual work plan and budget, review project
progress and audit observations, approve amendments to Project Implementation Plan
(PIP), and provide directions for overall management of the program. Government
initiatives under the civil services reforms program are aimed at decentralizing
responsibilities and functions to the districts. The project includes several steps to
enhance district focus, e.g. all concerned SMSs will be placed under the District
Extension Officer; at least three SMSs will be located at divisional level and a District
Extension Steering Committee (DESC) will be established under the District
Commissioner (DC) to review the project periodically, liaise with NGOs, and other
extension providers, assist in raising resources locally for supporting extension activities
and providing support in farmer mobilization and resolving farmer problems. The
Government has provided to IDA a Letter of Sectoral Policy setting out its priorities and
intentions regarding agricultural research and extension in the country. Government will
prepare a Project Implementation Plan (PIP) which will inter alia include arrangements to
operationalize various features of NAEP II such as participatory approach, effective
farmer participation in technology generation and transfer, other providers (NGOs/private
sector) participation in extension on cost-sharing basis, farmer empowerment. The draft
PIP was discussed during negotiations and the finalized PIP, satisfactory to IDA, will be
furnished before project effectiveness. The Government will prepare and furnish to IDA



-9-
by May 31 every year an annual work program, training plan, procurement plan and
budget for the following year.
H. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
2.17  Based on a study currently in progress a comprehensive monitoring and
evaluation system will be established. Findings and recommendations of M&E system
would be incorporated in annual progress reports. The annual work program, training
plan and supporting budgets for the following year would be submitted to IDA by May
31 each year. The above documents would include a review of the program progress,
implementation issues and proposed solutions, program timetables and updated
performance indicators. A joint Mid-Term Review (MTR) by the borrower and IDA
(representatives of farmer groups, women groups and other providers of extension like
NGOs/private sector will be associated with the exercise) will be carried out no later than
December 31, 1998 to review physical implementation and the extent to which project
objectives have been achieved. Based on the findings and recommendations of the MTR
the project will be appropriately restructured/improved. Project performance indicators
were agreed upon during negotiations.
3.    ASSESSMENTS
A. TECHNICAL ASSESSMENT
3.1   The project design is technically sound: the extension methodology has been
tested under a pilot operation (1986-89) and has been used with measurable success in 16
of the 20 regions of the country over the past six years under the ongoing NALERP. The
Tanzanian extension methodology is based on the Training and Visit management system
and provides for: (a) a unified extension system adapted to disseminate technology
concerning all of the farmers' commodities; (b) regular contacts between farmer groups
and extension staff; (c) farners participation in the development of technical messages;
(d) well established research-extension linkages; (e) continuous training of staff;
(f) regular supervision of staff; and (g) a simple organizational structure of the extension
service as part of the regular institutional structure of MOA. In the design of the project,
special care was taken to (a) address existing weaknesses in the research extension
linkages; (b) enhance farmers' participation in the technology development process; and
(c) strengthen the communication skills of front line staff and the use of mass media to
complement face to face extension. New features such as collaboration with private
enterprises and NGOs, seed production, and farmers empowerment to decide on
extension providers would be tested first under small scale pilot operations before being
adopted for implementation on a larger scale.



-10-
B. INSTITUTIONAL ASSESSMENT
3.2   The project will be implemented by the extension service which is a part of the
regular institutional structure of the MOA, and no new parallel administrative units will
be established. Since 1985, when pilot extension activities were started with IDA
support, the extension managers and front-line staff have gained considerable experience
through learning-by-doing, short-term technical assistance, various types of training, and
support from IDA and other donors. MOA carried out an appraisal of the qualifications,
experience and performance of all extension staff; as a result of this exercise a number of
staff have been retrained, several extensionists have undergone upgradation, diploma and
degree courses and special skill courses under the NALERP. The training of the
remaining staff has been programmed in NAEP II. MOA has also decided to dispense
with the services of 902 extensionists adjudged unsuitable for the job who cannot be
brought to the prescribed standards by training. Inter-ministerial coordination will be
enhanced by the proposed Project Steering Committee, and the proposed District
Extension Steering Committee will secure for the program the support and assistance of
other organs of the government, other agencies and people's representatives in the
district.
C. ECONoMIc ASSESSMENT
3.3   The economic impact of an agricultural extension project is diffuse. The desired
outcome, the adoption by farmers of production techniques which will improve
productivity and profitability, is only partially attributable to the "awareness" and
"training" provided by the extension service. While an important complement to the
other factors which influence the choice of alternate production techniques, it is difficult
to isolate the effect of governnent funded "agricultural extension" from all the other
considerations which constrain, and determine, farmer adoption of more efficient
production methods. The approach adopted in this presentation has been to identify the
"minimum incremental benefit stream" which would justify the proposed investment in
the government extension service, and then under an "incremental adoption" model, see
whether the proposed project can, under a reasonable set of operating assumptions,
produce the desired minimum benefit stream.
3.4   The incremental returns from increasing productivity for the various agricultural
enterprises was calculated net of on-farm input and labor costs. The actual extension
"messages" on ways to improve profitability, reduce risk and increase productivity come
from experience gained with the best farmers in the country, coupled with results from
research and adaptive trials carried out by the research and the extension services.
Domestic markets in food crops, agricultural exports and farm inputs were liberalized in
the late 1980's and early 1990's. The inputs supply market was the most recent market to
be liberalized, and prices are gradually declining as domestic competition in the supply
markets develops. Any future shifts in the factor-product terms of trade are expected to
be in favor of farmer products. The assessment was carried out in constant 1995 prices,
over a 20 year period. Input-output price relationships are not varied. Milk, tobacco and



-11-
millet were evaluated at domestic prices, which are at or below "economic prices". The
other products were valued at "economic prices" projected for the year 2000 based on
data from the November 1995 edition of the "Commodity Markets and the Developing
Countries", a World Bank Quarterly. Food prices are based on import parity calculations,
export crops on export parity, at the farmgate. Input costs were conservatively evaluated
at domestic prices, which are equal to, or higher than, import parity prices. Rural wage
rates are not adjusted, but remain at market rates. This reflects the fact that farmers have
to compete vigorously for labor at times of peak requirements (weeding and harvest).
The market for foreign exchange has been liberalized for two years, and access to foreign
exchange at market prices is open and effective. No adjustment was made in the foreign
exchange rates.
3.5   Under the "minimum national impact" approach, it is noted that to obtain a rate of
return of 25 percent or a benefit-cost ratio of 2.1 (at a discount rate of 12 percent,
Tanzania's opportunity cost of capital--OCC) on the proposed off-farm investment in
government extension services, it is sufficient for net on-farm benefits generated from
selected crops and livestock to grow at a rate of 0.45 percent per annum, over the 20-year
economic life of the project. The selected crops are maize, sorghum, millet, rice, cotton,
coffee, and tobacco (covering an aggregate of 70 percent of the cultivated area), and the
livestock are dairy cattle. The benefits derive from an average annual yield increase of
0.15 percent and an average annual increase of on-farm costs of 0.07 percent.
3.6   The "incremental adoption" analysis shows that the above rate of return and
benefit-cost ratio can result from the intervention of an extension service that influences
11 percent of the farmers cultivating the selected crops (and raising the selected animals),
raising their yields between 10 and 22 percent over a five-year period. Since these crops
represent some 70 percent of the area cultivated, this implies that the extension service
would bring an additional 270,000 farmers to use improved production techniques. This
is an average of 54,000 per year for the 3,500 front line agents supported under this
project: or about 15 farmers per agent per annum. This is felt to be a target which is well
within the capabilities of the improved extension service. Monitoring and evaluation
surveys by the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) indicate that, with existing technology,
crop yields have increased by about 30-50 percent for farmers having direct contact with
the national extension service. Therefore the projected increases in yields of from 10 to
22 percent, following initial adoption of improved technology, are considered
conservative.
3.7   However, recent analyses have suggested that the cost of government resources
can be significantly higher than estimated opportunity costs of capital. Therefore, a
sensitivity analysis was undertaken to assess the impact of a higher cost of resources. It
was found that, at the OCC of 12 percent, the NPV would be about US$29 million
equivalent, but if the cost of resources were, say, 17 percent, the NPV would still be
positive but would decline to about US$1 million equivalent. Thus the economic
viability of the project is fairly robust to changes in government resource cost, but



-12-
planned efforts to increase private sector involvement in extension will be important to
long-term viability.
D. FINANCIAL ASSESSMENT
3.8   The Ministry of Agriculture was allocated Tsh 17.2 billion (US$29 million) from
both budgetary sources, in FY96, or 3.3 percent of total Governmental expenditure. The
agricultural extension activities, carried out by the Agriculture Division and the Livestock
Division, were budgeted a total of US$11.5 million equivalent in FY 1996. Of this,
US$7 million was from the recurrent budget (all in local resources) and US$4.5 million
from the development budget (of which US$3.8 million was in foreign resources). The
development budget includes funds for the first phase of the ongoing National
Agriculture and Livestock Extension Rehabilitation Project, which accounts for US$3.8
million of the total US$4.5 million in the FY96 provision. (This project will close at the
time the proposed project would begin.)
3.9   The annual incremental expenditure under the proposed project would average
some US$5.8 million (without price contingencies). Expenditures are higher in the first
few years, and then taper off. The incremental recurrent costs in the final year of the
project are US$1.9 million. It would appear, from current funding levels, that this level
of incremental recurrent costs, which represents incremental vehicle operations, personnel
costs and administrative expenses, can be accommodated by the country. It would imply
an increase of only 1 0 percent in the MOA recurrent budget, or an increase of 27 percent
in the recurrent budget currently allocated to support of extension services.
3.10 MOA has categorized its 26 projects including NAEP II into four main national
programs namely research, extension, animal health and irrigation; and further classified
them for the purpose of resource allocation into super-core (12), core (10) and non-core
(4) projects. MOA confirmed that both extension and research programs have been
classified super-core, and will occupy top priority for resource allocation. The average
annual counterpart funding requirement of these 26 projects including NAEP II totals
Tsh.1.10 billion; of only super-core projects it is Tsh.0.93 billion; which is within the
confirmed availability of Tsh. 1.20 billion for MOA's development budget during the
period 1994/95 through 1997/98, for which budget forecasts are available. Expenditures
of this magnitude fit within the country's public finances and are likely to be sustained
over the long term. Further, the Government has decided to levy a cess on several
commercial crops (cotton, cashew, tobacco, coffee, tea) and a part of the funds raised
from these levies (outside the budget resources) will be made available to the extension
project. Under NAEP II the Government will pilotize initiatives for private sector/NGO
participation in extension on a cost-sharing basis. Based on an assessment of the
performance under these initiatives the cost-sharing arrangements will be appropriately
expanded. Given the low income of a large proportion of the rural population, a direct
cost recovery from beneficiaries (particularly those growing staple food crops) for service
provided at this time would have adverse welfare implications.



-13-
E. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
3.11  The NAEP II is ranked C for environmental assessment purposes. It would
directly support the efforts to improve the environmental sustainability of the core
technical messages to be disseminated. The messages would promote improved fallow,
minimum tillage, afforestation activities (agro-forestry and fuel wood production),
contour planting and anti-erosion devices, composting, rationalized use of fertilizer and
pesticides, integration of crops and livestock, and water harvesting and management all
of which would have positive environmental impact. Increased incomes which should
follow improved extension advice should enhance the environmental sustainability of the
smallholder agriculture.
F. SOCIAL AND GENDER RESPONSIVENESS
3.12  This project would contribute to broad based poverty alleviation in the country by
supporting technological change and innovation in agricultural and livestock production,
which will improve returns to all production factors including land and labor, and
increase rural incomes. Women in Tanzania's agricultural sector play key roles as
farmers, managers, farm laborers and decision makers, and would continue to be major
beneficiaries from the extension program. Increased incomes for women should result in
improved household food security since women are the major providers of their families.
G. SUSTAINABILITY
3.13  The institutional sustainability of the project is enhanced by the fact that there is
strong Government ownership. The project has been designed by Tanzanians, it would
use existing Government channels for implementation and no additional implementation
units are proposed to be established. The phase 2 project includes initiatives for piloting
other providers' participation on cost-sharing basis and selective privatization of
extension service. In the longer term these measures coupled with other initiatives such as
raising resources by cess and levies for research and extension in future have the potential
of reducing Government's financial burden. In FY95 and 96 annual MOA budgeted
expenditures constituted about 2.1 percent of the agricultural GDP (AGDP). Research
and extension projects were provided about 0.5 percent of the AGDP. The Government
has confirmed that the NAEP II will be the second after research amongst the highest
priority projects (out of 12 super-core projects) which will be provided assured funding.
An analysis of the Government's forward budgets for the years 1994/95 through 1997/98
shows that counterpart funds requirement of the super-core projects will be fully met
from the annual amounts earmarked for MOA's development budgets. Expenditures of
this magnitude fit within the country's public finances and are likely to be sustained over
the long term. The economic analysis of project investments shows a satisfactory
economic rate of return of 25 percent. After the project closes in 2001, the Government
expects the extension program to move to phase three and the existing institutional
arrangements in place would be available to operate this phase. Government also expects
that with growing private sector and NGO participation and with farmer groups



-14-
increasingly assuming greater role in sharing extension functions, the overall public
expenditures on extension should gradually decline and would continue to be sustainable
within the country's public finances.
H. Benefits
3.14  By increasing livestock and agricultural productivity and output, the project will
help to reduce rural poverty, increase food security and improve nutrition levels. Women
in view of their crucial role in Tanzania agriculture will be major beneficiaries.
Agricultural growth and exports should also increase. Through the dissemination of
messages related to improved fallow, afforestation, and anti-erosion techniques the
project would also have a positive impact on soil fertility, conservation and water
management. The project will have an impact on the rationalization of the MOA, and on
the quality of staff. A set of indicators has been developed during preparation to measure
the internal performance of the project, and to measure the impact on agricultural
productivity, farmers' revenue, and agricultural production.
1. RISKS
3.15  Some of the challenges faced in the implementation of the project include:
(i) timely and adequate release of counterpart funds - during preparation, the GOT has
identified 12 out of the 26 projects proposed to be implemented in future as super-core
projects which will have top priority for counterpart fund allocation. NAEP II is part of
the super-core projects; (ii) derailment of the macro-economic reform program, which
could reduce funding for Government activities, increase inflation, and affect farmer
incentives - this would have to be dealt with through a process of close supervision and
consultation with GOT during implementation; (iii) some operational risks such as delays
in procurement and particularly civil works construction -- which would be minimized
through training and support to the relevant Government departments and agencies.
While the project does face significant risk, the potential rewards are deemed to justify
incurring this risk.
4.  ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
A. ASSURANCES AND AGREEMENTS
4.1   Prior to negotiations the Government furnished: (a) a draft Letter of Sub-
Sectoral Policy in respect of agricultural research and extension (para 2.16); (b) criteria
for assessing the performance of the zonal communication centers to be established in
the first year (para 2. 10); (c) the Auditor General's report of the special audit of NALERP
funds and the remedial action program; (d) a copy of the contract specifying terms and
conditions for the use of motorcycles and bicycles supplied to the front-line extension



-15-
staff on loan (para 2.6); and (e) first year work program, training plan, procurement plan
and budget (para 2.16). During negotiations the Government furnished a schedule for the
release of 902 village extensionists. Agreement was also reached on project performance
indicators.
4.2   Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government would: (a) (i)
establish a project account (local currency) and a special account (US dollars) in a
commercial bank approved by the Bank of Tanzania; (ii) agree that these accounts will be
audited by the Auditor General or independent auditors acceptable to Auditor General
and IDA, (iii) include the necessary counterpart funds in its annual budget; and (iv)
furnish to IDA every year evidence that the funds provided in the budget of the previous
year for project activities were released in a timely manner for the intended purposes
(para 20, Annex 3); (b) carry out needs assessment studies for the training program and
for developing communication strategies (paras 2.7 and 2. 10); and (f) furnish by May 31
every year the work program, training plan, procurement plan and budget for the
following year (para 2.16).
4.3   The Government has furnished a Letter of Sectoral Policy on agricultural research
and extension.
4.4   As conditions of effectiveness the Government would: (a) furnish the final PIP
and the Financial Management Manual satisfactory to IDA, and a copy of Government
circular introducing these for MOA operations; (b) furnish evidence satisfactory to IDA
that adequate provision (not less than TShs 180 million) have been included for project
activities in the Government budget for the fiscal year 1996/97; (c) establish a Project
Steering Committee and a Training Coordination Committee, and a District Extension
Steering Committee in each district (paras 2.8 and 2.14); and (d) furnish draft standard
bidding documents for procurement using NCB procedures.
B. RECOMMENDATION
4.5   Subject to the above assurances, the project is suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR
21.5 million (US$31.1 million equivalent) to the Government of Tanzania.






-16-                          Annex 1
Page 1 of 5
TM TRIUlY,
P.O. Box 9111.
DAX in SALr AA-
ii~~~~~~I i~UNrr REUU-I OF TANZAIA
THE bMNTER FOR FINANCE
TYC/B/40/79                                 4th March, 1996
The President
World Bank
WASHINGTON, D.C.
Dear Sir,
LETTER OF SECTORAL POLICY CONCERNING
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND
RESEARCH IN TANZANIA
Background
The initiatives under Tanzania's structural adjustment programme and
Government's overall policy of liberalizing the economy have had a
profound beneficial impact on the agricultural sector.  Besides the
devaluation of Tanzanian currency and complete decontrol of the foreign
exchange market which have benefitted export crop products, the
Government has liberalized the marketing of food grains and some export
crops, and allowed the private sector to deal with input marketing and
distribution. This has resulted in an increase in producer prices in real
terms. The competition in a free market environment has benefitted the
farmers.
Government priorities for agricultural institutions are undergoing
changes, with the focus shifting to the provision of basic social and
infrastructural services to the economy and away from involvement in
production activities.  This shift emphasizes an agricultural production
system more determined by market forces and the activities of farmers,
cooperative societies, and other private sector agents, and less determined by
direct Government intervention.



-17-                          Annex 1
Page 2 of 5
The Government has recognized the need to redirect the role of public
institutions in agriculture in line with the objective of promoting and
sustaining an enabling environment for growth in agricultural production,
trade, and investment in order to achieve the national objectives of (i)
increasing rural incomes, (ii) enhancing food security, (iii) achieving export
growth, and (iv) conserving the environment. The Government's strategic
vision for institutional development of the agricultural sector calls for
changes so that (i) the legal and regulatory framework promotes an enabling
environment for the expansion of production, trade and investment by
private sector, (ii) Government role is limited to core functions of providing
only those goods and services that are public in nature, and (iii) the internal
incentive systems and resource allocation systems promote and facilitate
high quality performance in the carrying out of the core functions.
In terms of initiatives supported under IDA-funded Agriculture Sector
Management Project (ASMP) the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is going
through a rationalization and downsizing process, limiting its role to basic
core functions, e.g. research, extension, regulation and policy formulation
and management. In parallel the government has embarked on a major
reform initiative under which the Government's role would be limited to the
core functions of governance, the commercial and non-essential activities
would be given off to the private sector, the roles and functions of the
ministries would be rationalized and consequently the civil service
downsized. The regional government is proposed to be restructured and
slimmed down, and the district focus enhanced by transferring resources
from the regions to the districts and making district administrations more
community based.
National Agricultural Policy
There has been substantial progress in carrying out the reform process
in agriculture, thus the national agriculture policy has been reviewed to
incorporate the current vision.  The main objectives of the National
Agricultural Policy are:
To assure basic food security for the nation and to improve national
standards of nutrition by increasing output, quality and availability of
food commodities.



-18-                           Annex 1
Page 3 of 5
research and extension programmes, primarily focused on the small farmers,
which continue to be regarded as the most important activities of the
Ministry Agriculture.
Development Strategy for Agricultural Research
The ongoing IDA-supported NALRP has established a unified
research   establishment,  rehabilitated   and   strengthened  research
infrastructure, facilitated in formulating zonal research priorities and a
research master plan and piloted a farming system research approach for the
benefit of smallholders. our strategic vision of the next phase of the
research programme is to make research more user-oriented and farmer-
driven; farming system approach to embrace all research programmes; to
promote private sector initiatives in research; to provide through cess/levies
extra-budgetary resources to research, zonal autonomy in matters of
allocation of resources and decision making: appropriate incentives for
researchers to achieve national research objectives; and further strengthening
of farmer-research-extension linkages.
Development Strategyfor Extension
We will continue with the time-tested Training and Visit system of
message delivery but the Government is committed to actively encourage
private sector/NGO entry in providing extension services to the farmers with
cost sharing, including selective privatisation, where feasible.  Thus
pluralism will be increased through an evolutionary process with due regard
to sustainability and cost effectiveness. Further the farmers will be more
actively involved in the processes of generation and dissemination of
technical recommendations and messages; we therefore intend to adopt a
participatory approach giving an effective voice and role to the farmers. As
the incentives for intensification in agriculture improve, farmers will be able
to influence the generation of technology appropriate to their needs, and to
demand support from the extension service in obtaining and utilizing new
technologies. And as the farmers move to more intensified agriculture, the
extension providers will need to equip themselves in helping farmers to
address their requirements for such agriculture. The extension service will
reinforce the group approach in farmer consultation, message delivery and
problems solving and will facilitate the addressing of farmers problems such



-19-                          Annex 1
Page 4 of 5
To improve standards of living in the rural areas through increased
income generation from agricultural and livestock production,
processing and marketing.
To increase foreign exchange earnings for the nation by encouraging
the production and increased exportation of cash crops, livestock
products, other agricultural surpluses, byproducts and residues.
To produce and supply raw materials, including industrial crops,
livestock by products and residues for local industries, while also
expanding the role of the sector as a market for industrial outputs
through the application of improved production, marketing and
processing technologies.
To develop and introduce new technologies which increase the
productivity of labour and land.
lTo develop human resources within the sector in order to increase the
productivity of labour and to improve ability, awareness and morale.
To provide support services to the agricultural sector, which cannot
be provided efficiently by the private sector.
T o promote specifically the access of women to land, credit,
education and information.
Agriculture Development Strategy Focus
As you are aware Tanzanian agriculture is dominated by smallholders
of some 3.7 million farm families, who constitute one of the poorest sections
of our country's society. However, this sub-sector is the major producer of
food and cash crops including exportable crops. The realization that the
smallholder sub-sector can rapidly become more productive using available
and new technologies led the Government to launch the national
programmes for agricultural research and extension to generate and adopt
technologies responsive to farmer needs, and to transfer these technologies
to them.  The government regards the ongoing National Agricultural
Research Project (NALRP) and the National Agricultural and Livestock
Extension Rehabilitation Project (NALERP) and the proposed National
Agricultural Extension Project (NAEP II) as phases of the long-term national



-20-                          Annex 1
Page 5 of 5
as development issues which impact on adoption of extension
recommendations (inputs, credit, transport).
We intend to provide appropriate support to farmers organizations so
that they become over the years a constituency to support greater efficiency
in agricultural extension. Training of frontline extension workers and now
of farmers and farmer groups, who will be equal partners in the process, will
underpin an effective delivery system.
We will base our training programmes on the recommendations of a
comprehensive needs assessment study, and selectively strengthen the
training institutions to effectively carrying out the training programmes. We
intend to involve willing NGOs in farmers training programmes.
The pilot initiatives component will be an important instrument to
improve and restructure the NAEP II, as well as help in designing the next
phase of the extension programme. We have included as main objectives of
this component improving extension management, reducing government
spending, providing complementary services to public extension, and
increasing responsiveness and accountability in all (public and private)
services. As scope for improvement never ends, we will appropriately
include more objectives as the need emerges.
We are committed to enhance the district focus in implementation of
extension programme. We have included initiatives under this project to
supplement the measures proposed under the civil service reforms
programme to devolve more powers and resources to the districts and to
decentralize administration to be as near the people as possible.
Best regards,
Yours sincerely,
Prof. Simon M. Mbilinyi
MINISTER FOR FINANCE
cc:  Hon. Mr. Paul Kimiti
Minister for Agriculture and Cooperatives
DAR ES SALAAM



-21-
Annex2
The United Republic of Tanzania
National Agricultural Extension Program
Components Project Cost Summary
(TSHS Million)                 (USS '000)             Foreign   Base
Local   Foreign    Total     Local    Foreign    Total   Exchange  Costs
1. Institutional Strengthening     4,430.17  4,090.81   8,520.98  7,145.44   8,598.08  13,743.52      48     48
2. Extension Training              5,129.72  1,419.79  6,549.51   8,273.74   2,289.98  10,563.72      22     37
3. Extension Communication Support   970.79   625.68   1,596.47   1,565.78   1,009.16  2,574.94       39      9
4. Pilot Initiatives                 920.14     0.00    920.14   1,484.10      0.00  1,484.10          0      5
Total BASELINE COSTS              11,450.82  6.136.28  17.587.10 18,469.06   9,897.23 28,366.29       35    100
Physical Contingencies               253.23   136.24    389.47    408.44     219.74    628.18         35      2
Price Contingencies                3,226.81    846.40  4,073.21   3,411.49   536.35  3,947.84         14     14
Total PROJECT COSTS               14,930.86  7,118.92 22,049.78  22,288.99  10,853.32 32,942.31       32    116
Financing Plan
IUSD Million)
International      Government of
Development        Tanzania and
Project Components                         Association         Beneficiaries          Total
Institutional Strengthening                     13.9                 1.7                 15.6
Extension Training                              12.6                 0.0                 12.6
Extension Communication Support                  2.8                 0.1                  2.9
Pilot Initiatives                                1.8                 0.0                  1.8
Total Project Costs                             31.1                 1.8                 32.9
Disbursement Plan
Disbursements
Amount
Items                            (USD Million)      % of Financing
1. Civil Works                          0.8         90%
2. Vehicles, Equipment and Furniture    4.6          100% of foreign costs and
90% Of local costs
3. Technical Assistance, Training      12.4          100%
and Studies
4. Pilot Initiatives                    1.4          100% of foreign expenditures and
90% of local expenditures
6. Incremental Operating Costs          7.3          100% for the first USD 3.0 million,
90% for the second USD 3.0 million,
60% thereafter.
7. Unallocated                          4.6
Total                                  31.1



-22-                               Annex 3
-til II          Page 1 of3
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROGRAM (NAEP HI)
Procurement, Disbursement, Accounts and Auditing (see para. 20)
I.    Procurement Arrangements
1.    All procurement of goods, works and consulting services would be made in accordance
with current World Bank procurement and consultants Guidelines. Bank's standard bidding
documents for goods, works and consultants would be used.
(a)   Civil Works: All civil works contracts amounting to a total of US$1.16 million for
rehabilitation of office buildings and small houses each costing US$200,000 or less) will be by
NCB. Civil works which cannot be bid economically using NCB, due to a lack of local
contractors, will be completed by Force Account, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $0.20
million.
(b)   Goods and Equipment: To the extent practicable, contracts for similar goods, such as
vehicles and office equipment and computers, shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$100,000 or more each. Procurement of goods under contract estimated at
US$100,000 equivalent or more will be done by ICB. For contracts less than US$100,000
equivalent NCB procedures will be adopted (US$2.7 million). Small contracts of US$20,000
equivalent or less will use national shopping procedures (a minimum of three quotations) with
aggregate not to exceed US$400,000. Under ICB, domestic manufacturers of goods will be
allowed a preference of 15 percent or the existing rate of import duty, whichever is lower, over
the CIF price of the competing foreign bidder. Fuel, oil and lubricants covered by the O&M costs
will be procured according to normal Government procedures, which are satisfactory.
(c)   Technical Assistance and Training: The project will finance four major and several
minor studies, meet the cost of technical advisors and fund training of staff, trainers, community
leaders/members. Consultants will be hired following procedures set forth in the "Guidelines for
Use of Consultants by the World Bank as Executing Agency". All consultant contracts for firms
over US$100,000 and for individuals above US$50,000 and all training proposals will be subject
to IDA prior review. Where applicable, consultant contracts will include a training component.
(d)   Pilot Initiatives: All procurements for small projects under the Pilot Initiatives will
follow the relevant procurement procedures described in (a) through (c) above. NGOs,
community groups, parastatal organizations involved in implementing the Pilot Initiatives will
follow the IDA procedures when procuring items financed by IDA. The procurement
arrangements are summarized in the table given below.



-23-                                       Annex 3
Page 2 of 3
(e)     At negotiations a time table for finalizing standard bidding and contract documents under
ICB and NCB was agreed, as well standard processing time for key procurement activities.
(f)    All bidding packages (for civil works and goods) estimated to cost US$100,000 or more
would be subject to IDA prior review. Other contracts will be subject to post review in
accordance with the provisions of Appendix I of IDA procurement guidelines. Prior review
would cover about 37 percent of goods and 40 percent of consultant services of IDA-funded
contracts.
(g)    Annual Procurement Work Plan: The Borrower would prepare an overall Annual
Procurement Work Program which would contain details with respect to procurement packages,
estimated cost per package, procurement method, and procurement implementation schedule.
The plan would be furnished to IDA by May 31 each year in respect of program for the following
year.
Figures in US$ ('000)
ITEM                          ]CB           NCB           OTHER          TOTAL
I    CIVIL WORKS                                      0.00          931.61         232.90        1,164.51
(D to)       (838.45)      (209.61)       (1,048.06)
2    VEHICLES                                        2,729.34       690.65          0.00         3,419.99
(2,729.34)    (690.65)        (0.00)        (3,419.99)
3    PLANT AND EQUIPMENT                             207.42        1,199.77        385.62         1,792.81
(207.42)     (1,163.78)      (374.05)       (1,745.25
4    TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE,                            0.00           0.00         14,752.77      14,752.77
TRAINING AND STUDIES                            (0.00)         (0.00)      (14,752.77)     (14,752.77)
5    PILOT INITIATIVES                                0.00          897.25         897.25        1,794.50
(0.00)       (897.25)      (897.25)       (1,794.50)
6    RECURRENT OPERAT NG COSTS                        0.00           0.00         10,017.57      10,017.57
(0.00)        (0.00)       (8,339.43)      (8,339.43)
TOTALS                                         2,936.76       3,719.28      26,286.11       32,942.15
(2,936.76)    (3,590.12)    (24,573.11)     (31,099.99)
Figures in parenthesis indicate IDA contributions.
II.     Disbursements would be made against standard IDA documentation with the following
exceptions, for which certified Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) would be used: (i) contracts
less than US$100,000 equivalent; (ii) all local training; and (iii) operating costs. SOE thresholds
for consultants would be US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals. SOEs would be
certified by the Finance Manager in the MOA and the Ministry of Finance, who would confirm
that these are in agreement with the books of account. These would be subject to review by IDA
supervision missions and interim and annual audits.
In order to facilitate the availability of funds for the Project when needed, a Special
Account will be established in a commercial bank and operated and maintained on terms
satisfactory to IDA. An initial deposit of US$1 million will be deposited by IDA into the Special
Account. The special Account will be replenished on the basis of satisfactory documentary



-24-                               Annex 3
Page 3 of 3
evidence, to be provided to IDA, of eligible payments made from the account for goods and
services required for the project. No limit will be set on the size of the payments to be made
from the Special Account other than that imposed by the balance remaining in the account.
III.  Accounts will be maintained in the formats to be prescribed in the PIP by four GOT
organizational units, namely District Offices (DOs), Regional Offices (ROs), participating
Training Institutions and the Extension Unit (EU) established in the MOA. Accounts will be
maintained in accordance with Government financial regulations. All project transactions will be
accounted for under a separate sub-heading (NAEP II) in all accounting records and financial
statements. The summarized accounts of the project would be in the form of a "Sources and
Application" of funds (SAF) statement from the consolidated project expenditure summary
compiled by the EU. A balance sheet would also be prepared to reflect the assets and liabilities.
EU would be responsible for procurement of goods and services required by the project,
for making withdrawals from the IDA Credit Account, and for establishing and operating the
special account. The books to be maintained by EU including the Withdrawal Register, a Special
Account Cash Book and ledgers, Subsidiary Books and Records will be described in the
Financial Management Manual. The Government will prepare a financial management manual
(FMM) and include it in the PIP; the FMM will describe the financial procedures, accounting
system, fund inflow and release procedures, financial powers to be exercised and accountability.
Government agreement to introduce FMM for project's financial management will be a condition
of effectiveness.
IV.  Audit: The annual statutory audit will normally be carried out by the Auditor General.
However, in case of anticipated delay in conducting audit the Government would agree for audit
to be conducted by independent auditors of repute acceptable to Auditor General and IDA, so
that the audit reports are furnished to IDA within the agreed period of 6 months. The audit will
be carried out in respect of the project accounts, the special account and the SOE claims. EU
would be responsible for submission audit reports concerning project accounts, special account
and SOEs to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal year. The internal audit section of
MOA will be strengthened with one additional experienced auditor and an audit assistant who
would have the responsibility of carrying out a complete audit of eight regions under NAEP II
every year.






-25-
Annex 4
Page 1 of 7
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT - PHASE II
Economic Analysis
1.     The economic impact of an agricultural extension project is diffuse. The desired outcome, the
adoption by farmers of production techniques which will improve productivity and profitability, is only
partially attributable to the "awareness" and "training" provided by the extension service. While an
important complement to the other factors which influence the choice of alternate production techniques,
it is difficult to isolate the effect of government funded "agricultural extension" from all the other
considerations which constrain, and determine, farmer adoption of more efficient production methods.
The approach adopted in this presentation has been to identify the "minimum incremental benefit
stream" which would justify the proposed investment in the government extension service, and then
under an "incremental adoption" model, see whether the proposed project can, under a reasonable set of
operating assumptions, produce the desired minimum benefit stream.
2.     Two types of analysis were carried out. Firstly the "national impact" analysis shows that in
order to achieve an adequate incremental return to the project (defined in this case as an internal rate of
return of 25 percent, or a Benefit-Cost ratio of at least 2 at the 1 2 percent discount rate), the project
investment needs to produce, an average annual growth rate of 0.1 5 percent per annum for the twenty
years of the project life, across a series of crops and livestock activities where improved production
techniques are available, and which account for some 70 percent of total area cultivated (for the crops).
Secondly, the "incremental adoption" analysis indicates that the outreach and capacity of the improved
extension service, as designed, should provide at least this minimum incremental benefit stream. The
basis for these assertions is described below. The attached set of tables (Tables I and 2) provide further
details on the calculations.
Basic Assumptions
3.     Target Crops: The extension service is national in coverage. Its activities will affect
agricultural productivity and farm profitability for a range of food and traditional export crops, and
livestock activities. Based on an assessment of available research results, and evidence from the first
phase project, the project has the ability to affect productivity in the crops enumerated below. Only
these crops and livestock based activities are taken into consideration in assessing economic benefits.
The total area cultivated each crop (or livestock activity) is indicated in brackets. The selected crops (and
livestock activities) account for some 70 percent of the total cultivated area in a given season (and 20
percent of the cattle herd). The crops where improved technology exists, and where its adoption will be
furthered by the strengthened extension service include: maize (1.1 million ha), sorghum (637 thousand
ha), paddy (315 thousand ha), millet (369 thousand ha), coffee (160 thousand ha), cotton (560 thousand
ha), tobacco (75 thousand ha), traditional, uLnimproved dairy herds (2.7 million head) and cross bred or
exotic dairy herds (82 thousand head).
4.     Production benefits. The incremental returns from increasing productivity for these various
agricultural enterprises was calculated net of on-farm input and labor costs. The actual extension
"messages" on ways to improve profitability, reduce risk and increase productivity come from
experience gained with the best farmers in the country, coupled with results from research and adaptive



-26-                                       Annex 4
Page 2 of 7
trials carried out by the research and the extension services. Almost all improvements in productivity
come about from an increase in on farm costs, due to the increase in the quantity or quality of purchased
inputs (improved seed, more suitable fertilizers, better targeted pesticides), or an increase in labor inputs
(to improve soil preparation prior to planting, to plant earlier, to plant in lines, to weed more effectively,
to monitor for pests). It has also been noted that, in rainfed peasant agriculture in Africa where
production risks are specially high, farmers are unlikely to adopt a new technique and invest scarce
resources in it, unless they can make double their money back in the first year: i.e. the first year's
incremental benefit-cost ratio for the crop budget has to be higher than 2. This feature has been built into
the economic assessment. Whereas both benefits and costs increase during the project period, due to the
additional efforts of the extension service, the rate of growth in yields, while very small, is still more
than twice the rate of growth in costs.
5.     Prices: Domestic markets in food crops, agricultural exports and farm inputs were liberalized in
the late 1980's and early 1990's. The inputs supply market was the most recent market to be liberalized,
and prices are gradually declining as domestic competition in the supply markets develops. Any future
shifts in the factor-product terms of trade are expected to be in favor of farmer products. The assessment
was carried out in constant 1995 prices, over a 20 year period. Input-output price relationships are not
varied. Milk, tobacco and millet were evaluated at domestic prices, which are at or below "economic
prices". The other products were valued at "economic prices" projected for the year 2000 based on data
from the November 1995 edition of the "Commodity Markets and the Developing Countries", a World
Bank Quarterly. Food prices are based in import parity calculations, export crops on export parity, at the
farmgate. Input costs were conservatively evaluated at domestic prices, which are equal to, or higher
than import parity prices. Rural wage rates are not adjusted, but remain at market rates. This reflects the
fact that farmers have to compete vigorously for labor at times of peak requirements (weeding and
harvest). The market for foreign exchange has been liberalized for two years, and access to foreign
exchange at market prices is open and effective. No adjustment was made in the foreign exchange rates.
6.     Off Farm Costs: The off farm costs include the incremental costs to the Government of the
proposed project: both the incremental investment and recurrent costs of the extension service over the
five years of buildup, and the recurrent costs of maintaining the improved level of service, over the 20
years of the evaluation period. Cost estimates include physical but not price contingencies. No
adjustment was made for foreign exchange costs for reasons noted above.
7.     Adoption: The MOA has some 4,400 front line extension agents, to service the 8,800 villages in
the 20 regions in the country. Some 80 percent of these, or 3,500 front-line staff are in the 16 regions to
be serviced under the proposed project. Each extension agent should be capable of working with a
minimum of 40 contact groups. Each contact group should average 10 farmers, giving each extension
agent theoretic influence over 400 farmers. Under these assumptions, the extension service is capable of
influencing the behavior of some 1.4 million farmers, 40 percent of the total farm families in the country.
While the extension agents only interact directly with a small proportion of total farmers, innovations are
shared within and across farming communities, and mass communication techniques are used to reach a
wider audience.
8.     The analysis looks at adoption in two ways. Under the "national impact" aspect of the
economic assessment, the intention is to see how large a productivity change would be needed, across all
the crops identified above, in order for the investment in agricultural extension to be justified. Under the
"incremental adoption" approach, the analysis models the gradual effect of the project on individual
farmers, as they are convinced to adopt new technologies, and obtain increased output. This latter model



-27-                                     Annex 4
Page 3 of 7
has the extension service affecting 1.5 percent of all farmers growing the selected crops (and livestock)
in the first year of project activities, 2.0 percent the second year, and 2.5 percent for each of the
remaining three years of the project. By year 5 of the project, an additional I I percent of the fanning
population would have adopted improved techniques. Each farmner who adopts new techniques is
assumed to have incremental yields of between 10 and 22 percent (with the appropriate increases in
production costs), depending on the crop or livestock activity (see tables).
9.     Under the "incremental adoption" analysis, incremental benefits lag the activities of the
extension service. While the 1.5 percent of the farmers adopt new techniques and receive instruction in
the first year of the project, their productivity does not start to go up until year two of the project, and
only reaches its full increment in year six of the project. The benefits from subsequent years of
extension service activity are lagged in the same fashion, so that full incremental output is not achieved
until year 10. Since this is a second phase project, it builds on an existing institution, and is able to start
producing results, even though they are not very large, in the first year of implementation.
10.    Surveys of adopting farmers during the first phase project and assessments by technical staff
indicate that yield improvements of 50 to 100 percent can be obtained from the adoption of improved
cropping techniques. A recent independent survey of farm families in Tanzania indicates that some 60
percent of farmers had had some contact with the extension service. although only 36 percent had been
contacted in the preceding year. While this indicates the need for improvement (to be obtained during
this second phase project) it validates the assumptions of outreach made in modeling extension impact.
The same survey indicates that some 20 percent of farmers used fertilizer, and 18 percent "improved
2                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
seed" . A survey of agriculture in 1986/87 indicated that 14 percent of farmers used fertilizer,
providing an indication that the gradual adoption of improved technology does appear to be taking place,
as awareness, access, availability of credit, and other factors permit.
Rate of Return, Benefit-Cost Ratio, and Sensitivity Analysis
11.    The analysis compared the net returns from changes in "on farm" profitability, against the "off
farm" costs of the extension service. The impact of the project is compared, theoretically, with what
would have happened had the project not been implemented (not against overall yield trends, which are
subject to weather and other factors). As noted above, two analyses are undertaken. The first one
indicates the "minimum national impact" necessary to generate a satisfactory rate of return. The other,
the "incremental adoption" approach, shows that by starting with a conservative estimate of the
capacity of the extension service to influence farmer behavior, and adding together the incremental
benefit streams generated by those farmers who adopt improved technology, the incremental benefit
stream needed to provide the satisfactorv rate of return can indeed be generated.
12.    Under the "minimum national impact" approach, it is noted that to obtain a rate of return of 25
percent or a benefit-cost ratio of 2.1 (at a discount rate of 12 percent, Tanzania's opportunity cost of
capital) on the proposed off-farn investment in government extension services, it is sufficient to generate
the incremental benefits which result from a growth rate of 0.15 percent per annum, over the 20 year
I   Poverty Assessment, 1993-94, D. Narayan, ENVSP Division, World Bank.
2   Although the definition of "improved" is imprecise, and does not mean hybrid seed.
3   Agriculture Sample Survey, 1986-87, Central Bureau of Statistics, United Republic of Tanzania



-28-                                      Annex 4
Page 4 of 7
economic life of the project. These benefits are not across all of agriculture GDP. They are confined to
a selection of crops (70 percent of the area cultivated) and livestock activities (dairy). On-farm costs are
assumed to grow at 0.07 percent per annum, to permit an on-farm benefit cost ratio of at least 2.0.
13.    The "incremental adoption" analysis shows that the above rate of return and cost benefit ratio
(which imply the same incremental benefit stream) can be obtained by an extension service that
influences 11 percent of the farmers cultivating the selected crops (and raising the selected animals)
over the course of the five year project. Since these crops represent some 70 percent of the area
cultivated, and if area cultivated is evenly shared amongst the country's 3.5 million farm families, this
implies that the extension service would bring an additional 270,000 farmers to use improved production
techniques. This is an average of 54,000 per year for the 3,500 front line agents supported under this
project: or about 15 farmers per agent per annum. This is felt to be a target which is well within the
capabilities of the improved extension service.
14.    Sensitivity Analysis In order to assess how robust the economic rate of return and benefit-cost
ratio are to changes in various assumptions, a sensitivity analysis was undertaken on: (i) the benefit and
cost streams; (ii) the key variables determining project impact: farmer adoption rates, incremental yield
growth, and share of area receiving the average 0.15 percent per annum yield growth during the project
life. The results are shown in the table below, and indicate the economic performance of the project to
be fairly robust. If project costs go up 50 percent, the economic rate of return drops to 21 percent,
indicating it is still worthwhile. If benefits drop by 50 percent, then the economic rate of return drops to
13 percent (i.e. it is still viable). If the costs are incurred as scheduled, but the benefits delay 3 years
from the timing in the original analysis, the economic rate of return drops to 15 percent, indicating that
the project is still viable.



-29-                                   Annex 4
Page 5 of 7
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS               ERR of    B/C Ratio of
25 %       2.1 (at 12%)
Base Economic Rate of Return                    25%            2.1
Project Costs Up 20 Percent                     21%            1.7
Project Costs Up 50 Percent                     17%            1.4
Incremental Benefits Down 20%                   21%            1.7
Incremental Benefits Down 30%                   18%            1.5
Incremental Benefits Down 50%                   13%            1.0
Project Incremental Benefits Delayed
I Year          21%            1.8
2 Years          18%            1.5
3 Years          15%            1.3
ERR of 25%   ERR of 12%
(B/C of 2.1)   (B/C of 1.0)
Incremental Adoption Due to Project
(in % of total farmers after five years)  11.0%          5.0%
Rate of Incremental Annual Yield
wth Due to Project Across All Crops
(Growth In Costs Constant at 0.7
%/annum)                                     0.150%        0.102%
Proportion of Area Cropped With
AverageYield Growth of 0.15% / Annum           100%           48%
15.    Switching value tests were carried out on three key variables. Under the "incremental adoption"
approach, the number of farmers who adopt new technologies, as a result of extension efforts, needs to
drop from 11 percent of the farmers cultivating the selected crops, to 5 percent of these farmers, a
decline of 55 percent below an already conservative estimate, in order for the project returns to be
borderline (i.e. an ERR of 12 percent). Similarly, under the "minimum national impact" approach, the
average incremental growth in yields would have to drop some 32 percent, from 0.15 percent per annum
to 0.102 percent per annum, for project returns to be borderline. Finally, under the "minimum national
impact" analysis, the original area under crops susceptible to improvement, and where yields were
growing at 0.15 percent per annum, would have to drop by 52 percent before the returns were borderline.
These shifts in basic parameters, while possible, are very unlikely, and the project returns are estimated
to be robust.
Fiscal Analysis
16.   The Ministry of Agriculture (Vote 43) was allocated Tsh 17.2 billion (US$ 29 million) from both
budgetary sources, in Fiscal 1995/96. This is 3.3 percent of total Governmental expenditure. The MOA
was seventh in the ranking of Government agencies by size of Total Budgetary Expenditure allocation,
coming after the Ministry of Finance, Defence, Ministry of Works, the Ministry of Health the Police



-30-                                    Annex 4
Page 6 of 7
Force, and the Ministry of Education (after the requirements for State House and Debt Service have been
taken off the top).
17.   The allocation of total expenditures to the MOA declined some 20 percent in real terms between
FY 95 and 96. The Recurrent Budget rose some 34 percent in FY 96 (due to the infusion of Tsh 3
billion for Agricultural Inputs), while the Development Budget declined by sonic 55 percent in real
terms.
18.   Two thirds of MOA's overall allocation is the Recurrent Budget amounting to some Tsh 11.6
billion (US$ 19.3 million) and one third is the Development Budget or Tsh 5.6 billion (US$ 9.3 million)..
Some 27 percent of total expenditure by MOA (Tsh 4.6 billion or US$ 7.7 million) is to be financed from
foreign sources, a fairly high share of the total. These foreign funds, only included in the Development
Budget represent 83 percent of finance for this section of the budget.
19.   The Ministry's Recurrent Budget is used to cover personnel emoluments (46 percent),
subventions to other organizations both local and international (41 percent), with a very small share
going into the financing of operations, travel and supplies (12 percent, or Tsh 1.4 billion (US$ 2.3
million).
20.    The agricultural extension activities, carried out by the Agriculture Division, and the Livestock
Development Division, were budgeted a total of US$ 6.9 million in FY 1996. Of this, US$ 7.1 million
was from the Recurrent Budget (all in local resources) and US$ 4.5 million from the Development
Budget (of which US$ 3.8 million was in foreign resources) as noted in Table 3 attached. The
Development Budget includes funds from the first phase of the proposed National Agricultural Extension
project, which accounts for US$ 3.8 million of the total US$ 4.5 million in the FY 96 provision.
21.    The annual incremental expenditure under the proposed NAEP II project would average some
US$ 5.8 million (without price contingencies). Expenditures are higher in the first few years, and then
taper off. The incremental recurrent costs in the final year of the project are US$ 1.9 million. It would
appear, from current funding levels, that this level of incremental recurrent costs, which represents
incremental vehicle operations, personnel costs and administrative expenses, can be accomodated by the
country. It would imply an increase of only 10 percent in the MOA Recurrent Budget, or an increase of
27 percent in the Recurrent Budget currently allocated to support of Extension Services.



-31-                                     Annex 4
Page 7 of 7
Tanzania
National Agriculture Extension Project - Phase II
Economic Analysis
List of Supporting Tables
Table 1:             Assessment of Minimum National Impact
Table 2:             Assessment of Adoption Rates and Potential limpact
Table 3:             Financial and Economic Prices
Table 4:             Expenditure on Ministry of Agriculture FY 1996



TANZANIA
National Agriculture Extension Project - Phase If
Economic Analysis
Assessment of Minimum National Impact
(in Tsh millions of Oct. 1995)
AGGREGATE ANALYSIS
Yearl   Year2   Year3  Year4  Year5  Year6  Year7  Year8  Year9 Year l0  Yea1 Yearl12 Yearl13 Yearl4 Year 15 Yearl16 Year 17 Year I8 Year 19 Year20
INCREMENTAL NET BENEFIT STREAMS FROM ON-FARM ACTIVITIES
Maize              134     269     403      538     673      809     944   1,080   1,217   1,353   1,490   1,627   1,764   1,901   2,039   2,177   2,316   2,454   2,593
Sorghum               56      112     169     225      282     338      395     452      509     566      623     680     738      795     853      911     968   1,026   1,084
Millet              13      25       38      50      63       76      88      101     114      127     140      152     165     178      191     204     217      230     243
Paddy               45      90      134     179     225      270     315      361     406      452     498     543      589     635      682     728      774     821     868
Cotton              72      144     217     289      361     434      507     580      653     726      799     873     946   1,020   1,094   1,168   1,242   1,316   1,390
Coffee              23       45      68      91      113      136     159     182      205     228     251      274     297      320     344      367     390     414      437
Tobacco               36      72      108     144      181     217     253      290     326      363     400      436     473     510      547     584      621     658     696
CattleTraditional            348     696   1,046   1,395   1,746   2,098   2,450   2,802   3,156   3,510   3,865   4,221   4,578   4,935   5,293   5,652   6,011   6,371   6,732
CattleImproved               30      61       91     122      152     183     214      245     275      306     337      368     399     430      461     493      524     555      586
Total      0      756   1,514   2,273   3,034   3,797   4,561   5,326   6,093   6,861   7,631   8,403   9,176   9,950  10,726  11,504  12,283  13,063  13,846  14,629
INCREMENTAL OFF-FARM COST STREAM
6,127   3,173   3,716   2,381      988      988     988     988      988     988      988     988      988     988     988      988     988      988     988      988
INCREMENTAL NET PROJECT BENEFITS
-6,127  -2,417  -2.201    -108   2,047   2,809   3,573   4,338   5,105   5,874   6,643   7,415   8,188   8,962   9,738  10,516  11,295  12,076  12,858  13,642  t
(in Tsb (in US $S
millions millions)
NPV of Onfarm Benerits at 12%                       34,328    55.4
NPV of Off-farm Costs at 12%                        16,536    26.7
NPV of Net Incremental Benefits at 12%              17,793    28.7
Benefit Cost Ratio (at 12 %)                           2.1
Internal Rate of Return                               25%
BACKGROUND DATA AND ASSUMPTIONS
Foreign Exchange Rate: I USS      620 Tsh
Overall Coefficients
Av. Annual Growth in Farm Yields:  0. 150% (across full area cuiltivated)
Av. Annual Growth in Farm Costsa   0.070%
Overall Effect of an Annual                                                                                                                                                                                 H
Average Yield Growth of:  0.15%  over 20 years is an increme  3 0%
(Underlying the incremental net benefit streams are an average annual growth in crop/livestock yields of 0.15% and an average annual growth in on-farm costs of 0.07%
These coefficients produce a net benefit stream from on-farm activities which grows atan average annual rate of 0.45%.)



TANZANIA
National Agriculture Extension Project - Plase 11
Economic Analysis
Assessment of Adoption Rates and Potential Impact
(Tsh millions of Nov 1995)
AGGREGATE ANALYSIS
Yecrl IYr 2    Yu3    Year             Year 5   Year6    Ycai    Yea 8    Yeat    Year l        Year  l    Yecr 12   Ycar l3   Year 14   Ycu I    Year I6   YearI   Year I   Ycu l   Year Z
INCREMENTAL NET BENEFIT STREAMS FROM ON-FARM ACTIVITIES
Maize                 52       175       391       705     1,120     1,490     1,791     1,996    2,101     2,101     2,101     2,101    2,101     2,101     2,101     2,101    2,101     2,101     2,101
Sorghum                  16        55       123      220       348       461       553      614       646       646       646       646       646      646       646       646       646      646       646
Millet                 2         8        18        32        50       66        79        87        92        92       92        92        92        92        92       92        92        92        92
Paddy                  16       56       126       227       363      485       584       652       688       688      688       688       688       688       688      688       688       688       688
Cottn                  28        95       213      382       607       807       968     1,079     1,135     1,135     1,135     1,135    1,135     1,135     1,135     1,135    1,135     1,135     1,135
Coffee                  9        41       100       187      302       413       495       551      580       580       580       580       580       580      580       580       580       580      580
Tobacco                  14        47       105      188       299       399      479       534       562       562       562       562      562       562       562       562      562       562       562
Catde Traditionra                66      222       492       880     1,389     1,836    2,194      2,436    2,559     2,559    2,559      2,559     2,559    2,559     2,559    2,559      2,559     2,559    2,559
Catle Improved                  12       48       112       206       330      446       534       595       625       625      625       625       625       625       625      625       625       625       625
Total        0       216      748      1,678    3,027    4,807    6,402       7,678     8,545    8,988     8,988     8,988     8,988     8,988    8,988     8,988     8,988     8,988     8,988    8,988
INCREMENTAL OFF-FARM COST STREAM
6,127    3,173     3,716     2,381       988      988       988       988       988       988      988       988       988       988       988      988       988       988       988       988
INCREMENTAL NET PROJECT BENEFITS
-6,127    -2,958    -2,968    -703      2,039    3,820     5,414     6,690    7,557      8,000    8,000     8,000     8,000     8,000     8,000    8.000     8,000    8,000      8,000    8,000
Tsh      USS
Millions  Millions
NPV of Onfanrw  enefit at12%                                   34,246      55.2
NPV of Off-farm Costs at 12%                                   16,536      26,7
Benefit Cost Ratio (at 12 %)                                      2.1
IRR                                                             28%
BACKGROUND DATA AND ASSUMIPIONS
Foreign Exchange Ree: I USS -                 620 Tsh
Share of falmen adopting new techa (each year):        1.5%     2 0Y%     2.5%      2.5%      2.5%
Cuuaative Adoption Rates by Year: r5                   10-/
Anna Rates of Growh                             Cwnulative Yield
(tadtuced by etension service):   Yields   s           Increase in 5 Y
Maize     4.0%/     2. 0r.             21.7r
SnugbIam     3.0%      1.5%               15.9%/
Millt     2.0Y.     10%.               10.4%                                                                                                                                                                           0-
Paddy     4.0%.    2.0%/               217%                                                                                                                                                                             ID
Cotton     4.0/      20%               21.7%
Coffee     4.0%      20%               217%
Tobacco      4.0%     2.0%               217%
Catte Traditional    2.0Y%     1 0Y.             10,4%
Catle Improved     4.0%.    2. 0%               21.7%



- 34 -                                            Table 3
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC PRICES
(Estimated Average for late 1995)
Financial Prices               Economic Prices
Outputs                        Tshs/kg                        Tshs/kg
Rice                                 170                             138
Maize                                 65                              91
Sorghum                               60                              89
Coffee                               700                             760
Cotton                               100                             168
Source: Mission estimates in collaboration with MOA officials



Agriculture in the National Budget 1995/96
Recurrent Budget             Development Budget              Total Expenditure
Total    Share of    Local    Foreign    Total    Share of    Total    Share of
Total                                   Total                Total
Total Budget                        413,284.7   801.8%   18,448.7  97,225.1  115,673.8  2066.2%   528,958.5   607.8%
Debt Service                        171,725.2   333.2%
State House                            355.7      0.7%
Budget After Debt Service and       241,203.8   468.0%   18,448.7  97,225.1  115,673.8  2066.2%   356,877.6   410.1%
State House
Ministry of Finance                  51,543.8   100.0%     401.3  35,076.9  35,478.2   633.7%    87,022.0   100.0%
Defence                             41,680.7    80.9%    2,236.8      500.0   2,736.8    48.9%    44,417.5    51.0%
Ministry of Works                   20,882.1    40.5%    5,826.7  14,330.0  20,156.7   360.0%    41,038.8    47.2%
Police Force                         17,303.8    33.6%     791.4      22.0      813.4    14.5%    18,117.2    20.8%
Ministry of Health                   13,389.7    26.0%    1,042.6   7,687.7   8,730.3   155.9%    22,120.0    25.4%
iMinistry of Agriculture             11,599.0    22.5%      945.9   4,652.6   5,598.5   100.0%    17,197.5    19.8%
Prison Service                       10,849.4    21.0%     432.9       16.6     449.5     8.0%    11,298.9    13.0%
Foreign Affairs and Int'l Cooperation  10,541.6    20.5%    25.9                 25.9     0.5%    10,567.5    12.1%
Electoral Commission                 10,041.2    19.5%                                            10,041.2    11.5%
Ministry of Education                10,002.0    19.4%      853.7   8,120.6   8,974.3   160.3%    18,976.3    21.8%
Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals  1,456.4   2.8%    1,534.7   8,771.2  10,305.9   184.1%    11,762.3    13.5%
Prime Minister's Office               4,120.1     8.0%      112.0   4,976.1   5,088.1    90.9%     9,208.2    10.6%
Ministry of Science, Technology       8,970.2    17.4%     729.7   4,699.1   5,428.8    97.0%    14,399.0    16.5%
and High Education
Share of Expenditure (other than                                                                                                 m
StateHouse and Debt Service)        212,380.0   412.0%   14,933.6  88,852.8  103,786.4  1853.8%   316,166.4   363.3%






-36-
Annex 5
Page 1 of 2
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT - PHASE 2
Research Extension Linkages
1.    The linkage between research and extension is a continuing process. This was formally
initiated under the ongoing phase 1 project of the national extension called the National
Agricultural and Livestock Extension Rehabilitation Project (NALERP). The linkage is based on
a common decision by research and extension on the types of farmer problems to be solved by
research; researchers communicating solutions to extension who deliver these solutions in the
form of recommendations to the farmers and convey the feedback on results of adoption by
farmers of these recommendations to research together with fresh issues and problems; these are
then addressed by researchers and the cycle continues. Some of the research recommendations
developed under laboratory conditions need adoption to suit varying local field conditions; and for
this purpose researchers carry out field trials on farmers' fields, simulating more closely actual
farming conditions. Under Farming Systems Research (FSR) approach these trials take into
consideration many other factors besides the technological factors, such as farmers' resource
endowments, risk situations, and sociological realities. NALERP established several instruments
of research-extension cooperation: (a) close coordination between the extension service and the
FSR and other research programs achieved through several committees where researchers and
extensionists meet regularly (Zonal Technical Committees, Zonal and Regional Agriculture
Committees, Zonal and National Agricultural shows, National Coordinating Committee, Regional
Extension Coordinating Committee, National Technical Committee, and Pre-seasonal/annual
zonal workshops in each agro-climatic zone); (b) the nomination of specific liaison officers by
both research and extension at zonal/regional and national levels; and (c) the establishment of a
detailed schedule of regular coordination and contacts between research and extension workers.
These arrangements are in place and over the years research-extension linkages have considerably
strengthened.
2.    A notable development in the last 5 years is the realization by both researchers and
extensionists that farmers should have a more proactive role in the generation of technology as
well as in its dissemination. The linkage is therefore now viewed as a farmer-extension-research
linkage and both research and extension have initiated several steps for making this tripartite
linkage effective. Extension has adopted farmer group approach and the group is consulted on
the types and nature of the problems that should be addressed by research. Farmer systems
approach has been extended to several commodities and problems are increasingly being handled
by research under this approach. The limiting factor in conducting more field trials under this
approach is the availability of funds, as management of field trials requires more resources.
3.    The Ministry of Agriculture in Tanzania has decided to follow a multi-pronged approach
to further enhance farmer-extension-research linkages. Under NAEP II funds have been provided
for continuing and strengthening the regular institutional interface between research and



Annex 5
Page 2 of 2
extension through the various committees and meetings mentioned in the previous paragraph.
Farmers representatives will be added to some of the regional/zonal coordination meetings.
Funds have also been provided for extension to 'buy in' research particularly for the farmer-
managed field trials. Under phase 2 project of national research now under preparation the
following steps are proposed to strengthen linkages: (a) as far as practicable, the entire research
including commodity research will be based on Farming Systems approach; (b) adequate funds
will be provided for researchers to conduct commodity research on farmers' farms; and (c)
provision will be made to supplement NAEP II initiatives under village/division linkages. The
Government has decided to levy a cess on several cash crops and a substantial part of the
proceeds will be used to finance research and extension. The Board of Trustees for managing
these funds will have farmer and user representatives, and therefore users will participate in
deciding the research agenda funded by cess/levy.



-38-
Annex 6
Page 1 of 7
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT - PHASE 2
Brief Outline of the
Project Implementation Plan
Introduction
1.    The National Agricultural Extension Project (NAEP II) is the second phase of the
national extension program which will continue the extension activities now being
implemented under the ongoing phase 1 called the National Agricultural and Livestock
Extension Rehabilitation project (Cr. 1994-TA). The phase I has achieved many of the
project objectives; a unified extension service has been established, extension management
has been strengthened and the Ministry's capacity for managing the national program
enhanced by provision of physical infrastructure and logistical support. The results on the
ground are satisfactory, extension has covered nearly 2.16 million farm families, extension
service is in regular contact with nearly 70 percent of the farmers contacted, adoption
rates of extension recommendations have been steadily going up, in crop husbandry nearly
67 to 76 percent of the contacted farmers adopted two or more of the extension
recommendations, the adoption rates for livestock recommendations at 43 percent to 65
percent were comparatively lower. The yields of many crops have improved. Surveys
show yield for maize in coastal, western and northern regions of the country increased by
650 (original expectation at project start 350), 750 (250), and 465 (300) Kg per hectare.
The Project
2.    The phase 2 program will take over from the phase 1 on July 1, 1996. The phase 2
program will be implemented in 16 regions of mainland Tanzania for a period of five
years. The main objectives of NAEP II are to continue to provide extension services to
the farmers to improve their productivity and incomes. The extension will be based on the
T&V system and will use participatory approach and reinforce farmer group approach.
The project will initiate the process of private sector/NGO/farmer participation in
extension on cost-sharing basis and selective privatization, as feasible. The project will
have four main components:  Institutional Strengthening, Education and Training,
Communication Support and Pilot Initiatives. The program in phase 2 includes some new
features which respond to the lessons learned in phase 1. These include a strong
recognition and an appropriate arrangement to encourage participation of other providers
(NGOs/private sector) in extension services; piloting initiatives to make extension more
user-oriented, cost effective and participatory; improving implementation by initiating
steps for greater district focus and providing arrangements for inter-ministerial
coordination; providing communication support to face-to-face extension; emphasizing
group approach by extension instead of individual contact and providing for staff and



-39-                         Annex 6
Page 2 of 7
farmer leaders training for the purpose; strengthening the financial management of the
project and providing additional means for enhancing farmer-extension-research linkages.
Institutional Implementation Arrangements
3.    The implementation arrangements operating for phase I will essentially remain in
place and will be strengthened for inter-ministerial coordination, enhanced district focus,
financial management and internal audit.
4.    Role of the Central Government: The Ministry of Agriculture will have the
overall responsibility for implementing the NAEP II. The Assistant Commissioner of
Extension (ACE) under the Principal Secretary MOA, as Head of the Ministry's Extension
Unit (EU), will be the principal officer-in-charge for program implementation. A Project
Steering Committee (PSC) will be established for inter-ministerial coordination and will be
headed by the Principal Secretary MOA. The other members of the committee will be the
Principal Secretaries of the Ministry of Finance; Ministry of Community Development,
Women and Children; Prime Minister's Office; Ministry of Justice and Constitutional
Affairs; Planning Commission; heads of departments of MOA; and a representative each of
the farmers, and other extension providers. The Assistant Commissioner Extension will be
the member-secretary of the PSC. The terms of reference of the PSC will include; (i)
address policy issues; (ii) review program implementation, to approve annual work plan,
training plan and budget; (iii) consider the audit reports and recommendations; (iv)
approve proposals and projects under the Pilot Initiatives component; (v) approve
amendments to the Project Implementation Plan; and (vi) give directions for the overall
management of the project.  The overall management role of MOA will include
preparation of the annual work plan and the training plan in consultation with the regional
and the district administrations, budget management and release of funds to the field
agencies, program supervision, monitoring and evaluation.
5.    Role of the Regional Government: The role of the regional government will
primarily be supervision and coordination. In addition the region will be the effective
interfacing level between zonal research and regional and district extension through the
media of the standing Zonal Technical Committee, Zonal Research and Advisory
Committee, Regional Extension Coordination Committee and the Zonal Pre-seasonal and
Annual workshops. The meetings of these committees follow an agreed established
schedule. The principal officer responsible for implementing the project tasks at the
regional level would be the Regional Extension Officer (REO) who would report to the
Regional Agriculture and Livestock Development Officer (RALDO). The M&E function
for all MOA projects will be performed by the M&E Officer who, for NAEP II activities,
will report to the RALDO through the REO. A system of regional supervision of the
district extension activities has been established under NALERP which will be continued.
6.    Role of the District Administrations: The district will be the main implementing
unit for NAEP II. The main responsibility for implementing the project at the district level
would be of the District Extension Officer (DEO) who will report to the District
Agriculture and Livestock Development Officer (DALDO). All the Subject Matter



-40-                          Annex 6
Page 3 of 7
Specialists (SMS) would report to the DEO and at least three SMSs will be located at
below district headquarters, i.e., at divisional level to be available for consultation and
advice to the front-line extensionists namely the Village Extension Officer (VEO) and the
Divisional Extension Officer (DIVEO). A District Extension Steering Committee (DESC)
would be established under the chairmanship of the District Commissioner (DC) with all
the district heads of the departments of the concerned ministries, two representatives of
the farmers (one woman), a representative each of other extension providers and of the
district level credit and marketing cooperatives, and three persons to represent local
Governments to be nominated by the DC. The DEO will act as the member secretary of
this committee. The DESC will have the following terms of reference: (i) approve the
district annual work plan and budget; (ii) periodical program review; (iii) securing cross-
sectoral support to the program; (iv) support for farmer mobilisation; (v) support for
resolving farmer problems; (vi) raising local resources for the program; (vii) considering
proposals for pilot initiatives and making recommendations to MOA; and (viii) general
coordination of activities to provide support for program implementation.
Component Implementation Arrangements
7.    The Institutional Strengthening component will be implemented mainly by the
Assistant Commissioner Extension. He will draw up the procurement schedules for
procuring the required vehicles and equipment, finalize and award contracts for civil
works and for recruiting the agreed staff and consultants. He will arrange to issue orders
for the establishment of the PSC, Training Coordination Committee and the District
Extension Steering Committees before project effectiveness. For regular extension and
training activities the schedules as established under phase 1 would be generally followed.
8.    The Education and Training component will be coordinated by the Training
Coordination Committee in MOA which will finalize the annual training plan every year in
consultation with the participating training institutions. The training plan will be based on
the training needs assessment study which will be completed before September 30, 1996.
The Training Officer of MOA working under the ACE will be responsible for the day to
day management and supervision of the implementation of the approved training plan.
The M&E system of the MOA will regularly report on training plan implementation. The
implementing training institutions will regularly furnish feedback received on training
course evaluation to MOA and this will be discussed in the Training Coordination
Committee for lessons to be applied to designing the future courses of training on the
subject.
9.    The Communications Support Component: The ACE will be responsible for
posting the Zonal Communications Officers in two regions before project effectiveness
and reorganizing the FEPU in terms of the agreements reached with IDA (para of SAR).
The communication support program will be implemented at two levels-central and zonal
(i.e., in the regions covered by the zone). ACE will be responsible for drawing up the
annual work plan for the central and zonal activities. FEPU will be responsible for
implementing the central work program and will have the responsibility of overseeing the



-41-                         Annex 6
Page 4 of 7
program implementation at the regional level. The program will be based on the needs
assessment study to be carried out for the two identified zones before September 30,
1996.
10.   The Zonal program  will involve close coordination between zonal research,
regional extension and the Zonal Communication Unit which will report to the REO and
RALDO of the region where the unit is headquartered. The Zonal Communications
Officer (ZCO) would be expected to maintain close liaison with the head of the zonal
research center and will have regular working relationship with the Head of the Farrning
Systems Research in the zonal research center. Similarly his unit will maintain close
working relationship with the REOs of the other regions, and with the District
Commissioners, DALDOs, DEOs of the districts. The ZCO would be encouraged to
travel widely in the area to meet farmers, NGOs, public representatives, and other interests
to get a feel and feedback on the impact of the communication material supplied and the
need expressed for future. He will also be encouraged to attend the DESC meetings in the
districts and the zonal and regional coordination committees meetings between research
and extension. The Regional Extension Coordination Committees and other coordination
meetings would be utilized for consultants on the zonal requirements for communications
support material. At least once a year a special coordination meeting to discuss and
evaluate the zonal communication support program would be convened which would be
jointly chaired by the RALDO of the headquarters region and by the Zonal Research
Director.
11.   The Pilot Initiatives component will be implemented in the districts and will be
supervised and monitored by the DEO. The details of the criteria for selection of the pilot
projects and the process of their approval and funding would be provided in the PIP. The
main objective of the pilot initiatives is to improve extension delivery and make extension
more demand driven and user-oriented. The following main criteria would be used for
selection of appropriate proposals: (i) the pilots should cover an activity or activities
within the objectives of the project and the component.  Illustrative examples are
proposals to improve extension management, farmer-research-extension linkages,
participation of other providers in extension, proposals to address constraints in farmer
adoption of extension messages such as quality seed, animal traction, input supply,
proposals to empower farmer groups to carry out certain extension functions, beneficiary
assessment of extension, (ii) the pilots can be tried at one or more locations; (iii) the size
of investment in each case should normally not exceed US$100,000. In exceptional case
where the pilot trials or coverage exceeds three districts the ceiling may be enhanced to
US$200,000. The following approval process will apply. The pilots can be sponsored by
the Government departments/agencies, cooperatives, NGOs and others interested in the
basic objectives of the program. The pilots generated in a district would be considered in
the DESC whose recommendations would be forwarded to the MOA. The EU of MOA
would review these proposals which would be approved by the PSC. In case of pilots
covering more than one district EU would review them in consultation with the concerned
districts and secure approval of the PSC. All pilots with investment of US$20,000 and



-42-
Annex 6
Page 5 of 7
above would be subject to no-objection by IDA. The first 5 pilots irrespective of the size
of investment will be reviewed by IDA for no-objection.
12.   Monitoring and Evaluation: The monitoring and evaluation unit of MOA will
be responsible for regular monitoring of the project. The information chain has already
been established for regular monitoring of the project. The DEOs furnish all program data
to the Regional M&E Officer of MOA who consolidates the information and sends to the
MOA headquarters. The formats for reporting and the MIS are provided in the PIP. It
will be the responsibility of ACE to ensure that baseline impact surveys are carried out
before December 1996, and these are repeated for the mid-term review by September
1998, and for the project implementation completion report before December 31, 2000. A
table showing key performance indicators is attached.
13.   Project Start-up: The project start up key steps include (a) establishment of the
PSC, DESCs and the Training Coordination Committee. It will be the responsibility of
ACE to arrange the issue of appropriate orders to establish these committees by July 1,
1996; (b) Reorganization of FEPU would be completed and two ZCO would be
appointed; (c) the contracts for the Needs Assessment studies for training and
communications support would be awarded in the last quarter of FY96 so that the reports
are available before September 30, 1996; (d) the annual work plans, training plan,
procurement plan, and budget for FY97 would be finalized based on agreement during
negotiations and furnished to IDA before March end; (e) the national project launch
workshop will be organized during the fourth quarter of FY96 and the follow-up
Regional/district workshops will be organized during the first quarter of FY97.
14.   Mid-term Review: A joint mid-term review (MTR) will be conducted by the
Borrower and IDA not later than December 31, 1998 to review the implementation
progress and the extent to which the project objectives have been achieved. Based on
evaluation of the performance of two zonal communication centers established in year I
the MTR will recommend on the establishment of zonal communication centers in the
remaining five zones. The performance of the pilot projects started in years 1 and 2 will
also be evaluated for lessons to be applied to the new pilot initiatives. The MTR will also
recommend reallocation of funds, as necessary.
15.   Key Activities: A time table of key project activities is attached.



TANZANIA - NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Key Activities                FYr/          FY96                 FY97                FY98                 FY99                FY2000              FY2001
Qtr.   I   2    3    4    1   2       3    4    1   2    3   4   1        2    3    4    1   2   3       4    1  2      3    4
I   Project Process
-   Finalize SAR                                    x
-   Intemnal Review                                 x
-   Negotiations                                         x
-   Board Presentation                                   x
-   Benchmark Surveys                                          x    x
-   Impact Evaluation Survey                                                                                 x                                                   x
-   Mid-Term Review                                                                                               x                                              x
-   Inplementation Completion Rep.
-   Project Closing                                                                                                                                                   x
2.  Project Start-up
-   Appointment of ZCOs,                                       x
reorganization of FEPU
-   Establish PSC, DESCs and                                   x
Training Coordination Committee
Finalize annual work plan, trg.                      x                    x                    x                   x                    x
plan, procurement plan and
budget
-   Project Latunch Workshop
(a) Headquarters                                               x
(b) Region/districts                                                x   ___ _
3.  Project Implementation
-   SMSs to be posted at divisional                                 x
level
-   Conduct needs assessment for
(a) training                                                   x    x
(b) communication                                              x    x
-   Extension Operations
(a) MTS (per district/year)                                                 12--                  12-            ---12--             -    12 -            -12
(b) BMW (per district/year)                                                  6                  6--             -----66-              _6--                -6        -
(c) Regional Extn. C.C.                        x          x         x                                   x                         x
(d) ZonalIR.AC.                                                                                                  IxI        I  
(e) 7onal T.C            .                     x       x       x       x            x      x                                     x
01>
OQ I D
0



Key Activities                 FYr/          FY96                  FY97                 FY98                 FY99                 FY2000               FY2001
.           ~~~~Qtr.   1  12  13  14  1        2    3   14   1 2   13    4   1l    2    3  t4             1-  2    3    4    1            3- 4
(f) National T.C.                                                                                                1    2    3    4     1    2     3    4    1    2     3    4
-   Training                                                                                                                                                          X
-   Retraining (diploma holders)                         **                   **                    *                    *                    **
Nos./year
-   Refiresher Courses                                   **                   **                    **                   * .*
-   Farmers' Trg.
a.  Residential                                          **                   **                    **                   **
b.  On-site Group Trg.                                   **                   **                    **                   t                    **                    *
c.  Farm Study Tours                                                          **                    .                                         *                     **
d.  Demonstrations                                                            **                                                    **                              **
-   Impact Evaluation of Training                                     x                    x                     x                    x                    x
Program
-   Communications
(a) Writers' Workshops (one per                            x                     x                    x                    x                     x                    x
year zone
(b) Editorial Board Workshops                         x                     x                    x                    x                     x                    x
(one per year per zone)
(c) Annual Strategy (per zone)                                   x                    x                     x                    x                    x                     x
Commrnications Workshop
-   Pilot Initiatives
Pilot Evaluation                                                                                  x                                                               x
= Activities conducted annually.
I*li
--.
CY,






-45-
Annex 7
Documents in the Project File
1.   "The National Agricultural Extension Program" - Phase II Final Draft Report of
MOA Task Force.
2.    "National Agriculture and Livestock Extension Policy and Implementation
Guidelines" - MOA, 1992.
3.    Costs Estimates of NAEP II - MOA.
4.    "The National Agricultural and Livestock Extension Rehabilitation Project: Mid-
Term Review" - MOA, 1993.
5.    "Recommendations for the Pre-Season Implementation and Planning Workshop".
Kibaha Sugarcane Research Institute, 5th-6th October, Dar-es-Salaam - MOA,
1993.
6.    "Institutionalism of Research/Farmer Linkages". Working Paper No. 1 Dar-es-
Salaam: National Extension Service. Ministry of Agriculture - MOA, 1994.
7.    Mafanikio ya utafiti wa mazao na mifugo, Dodoma 1990 by Shao F. A. na Mpiri
D.O.
8.    An Evaluation of Extension Phase I by Beneficiaries - Sokoine Agriculture
University.
9.    Technical Report on Communication Support to Extension by Mr. P. C. Mohan.
10.   Technical Report on Training to NAEP II by Mr. Suresh Kumar.
11.   Technical Papers by Drs. D. Spencer and I. Butare.






MAP SECTION
I
I






RWANDA
_rkbwon 9   9 AFRICA
J- BURUNDI( 
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL
~tEXTENSION PROJECT
Is                   Phase o-
Zanzibar         ~~PROJECT AREA
MAIN ROADS
____SECONDARZY ROADS
BARIGE MOVEMENT
RIVERS
  REGION CAPITALS
0                                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~agNATIONAL CAPITAL
P EGION BOUNDARIES
- - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NotETher ifourmregons sofn RUCW  MYA. .:ING
ZAM BIA kd                                                                                                                        and port      covefed MLES 0t50e100ADsupporao
Southern Highlands Extension and Rural
ni            sttu o fny   teror itoent   KILOMETERS    0  50  100  ,50  200  '       R  LJU     V      WAM A:I                                                 D A
or o   ny occeptondeorsement                                                                                                          F      Src .
i: boundaries.  ,                                                                                                                                   OCEANo
O                                                      -'  ' J6 \   .-_.J~~~~~~~~~~o    -   MOZAMBIQ>UE                                                         o
imply, on the part of  ILES 0  50                                                              too Mtwora









IMAGING
Report No:       15117 TA
Type: SAR



