Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2899 TA
Agreement Providing for Amendment and Restatement 
of Development Credit Agreement
(National Agriculture Extension Project - Phase II)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 15, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 2899 TA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 15, 2000, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower and the Association have agreed to amend the Development 
Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the Association dated August 9, 1996 
(hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement) in the manner hereinafter set 
forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
Section 1.01. The Development Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in 
its entirety so as to read as set forth in the Annex hereto.
Section 1.02. This Agreement shall become effective upon signature by both 
parties.
Page  2
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s/ Daniel Yona 
Minister of Finance
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ James W. Adams 
Country Director for Tanzania 
Africa Region
ANNEX
To Agreement providing for
Amendment and Restatement
of Development Credit
Agreement dated August 9,
1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2899 TA
Amended and Restated Development Credit Agreement
(National Agriculture Extension Project - Phase II)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 9, 1996
As amended and restated on May 15, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 2899 TA
AGREEMENT PROVIDING FOR AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT OF
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
Page  3
AGREEMENT, dated August 9, 1996, as amended on May 15, 2000, between UNITED 
REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Association has received a letter, dated March 4, 1996, from the 
Borrower, describing a program of actions, objectives, and policies, designed to 
achieve adjustments in the Borrower’s national extension program (hereinafter called 
the Program), and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program;
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto 
set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
(b)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawal 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities or any imports of goods, if 
such payment or import, to 
the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“LAMT” means the Local Authority Management Team referred to in paragraph 
4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(b)
“Financial Management Manual” means the manual to be adopted by MAC and 
MALNR (as hereinafter defined), setting out the rules and regulations regarding the 
maintenance of accounts and procedures for incurring expenditures under the Project;
(c)
“Grant Agreement” means an agreement, satisfactory to the Association, to 
be entered into between the Borrower and each recipient of a grant for the purpose of 
financing a pilot activity under Part D of the Project;
(d)
“M & E” means Monitoring and Evaluation;
(e)
“MAC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives;
(f)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance;
(g)
“NGO” means a nongovernmental organization within the Borrower’s 
territory;
Page  4
(h)
“Pilot Subproject” means an extension activity under Part D of the 
Project which complies with the criteria specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(i)
“MRALG” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Regional Administration and 
Local Government;
(j)
“PSC” means the Project Steering Committee referred to in paragraph 3 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(k)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement;
(l)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the plan referred to in Section 6.01 
(a) of this Agreement, describing the procedures, performance indicators, and other 
arrangements for the purpose of implementing the Project;
(m)
“Recipients” means NGOs, any member of the private sector, a cooperative 
or a farmer group, engaged in agricultural extension activities, who may receive 
grants under the Project to carry out a Pilot Subproject;
(n)
“Special Account” means any of the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of this Agreement;
(o)
“TSh” means Tanzanian shillings, the currency of the Borrower; 
(p)
“Training Coordination Committee” means the committee referred to in 
paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(q)
“Local Authority” means a district council, city council, town council, 
or municipal council, as the case may be; 
(r)
“District Executive Director” or “DED” means the chief executive officer 
of a local government authority appointed pursuant to the provisions of the Local 
Government Service Act, 1982, and when used in relation to any (i) district authority, 
it refers to a District Executive Director or a Township Executive Director, or (ii) 
urban authority, it means a City Director, Municipal Director, or a Town Director; and
(s)
“MALNR” means the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, and Natural 
Resources in Zanzibar.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-one million five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 21,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
(i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect 
of the reasonable cost of works, goods, and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, or (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be 
paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made by recipients of grants for Pilot 
Subprojects under Part D of the Project, to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works, 
and services required for agricultural extension activities in respect of which the 
withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars two separate special deposit accounts for Parts A to D and Part E of the 
Project, respectively, in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this agreement.
Page  5
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue (i) from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the 
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15, commencing September 15, 2006 and ending March 15, 2036. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2016 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgm
ent of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained 
under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Page  6
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
Parts A through D of the Project through MAC and MRALG and Part E of the Project 
through MALNR, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, agricultural extension, and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services, and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
 prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) above, 
the Borrower shall (a) for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in TSh, in a 
commercial bank, a Project Account, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association; and (b) deposit into said Project Account, at quarterly intervals, such 
amounts as are estimated to be required for the carrying out of the Project during the 
ensuing quarter, or such other amounts as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the 
Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than July 31 in each year, 
commencing on July 31, 1997, furnish evidence, satisfactory to the Association, that 
amounts provided in the MAC and MALNR budget for the Project were released in a timely 
manner for the intended purposes.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association, 
not later than December 31, 1999, a midterm review of the Project. This review shall 
cover, inter alia, (i) the extent to which the development and other objectives of the 
Project have been achieved, (ii) compliance with the financial audit and other 
obligations of the Borrower, (iii) the provision of funds for the Project by the 
Borrower; and (iv) the implementation of the Project;
(b)
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, at least thirty days prior 
to such review, a report, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association, 
describing the status of progress regarding the items listed in paragraph (a) above 
and of Project implementation generally; and
(c)
based on such review, the Borrower shall promptly prepare an action plan, 
acceptable to the Association, for the further implementation of the Project, and 
shall thereafter implement such action plan.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall make available to MALNR the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated from time to time to Categories (7) (a) through (7) (d) in the table 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement under a subsidiary agreement, with terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Page  7
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources, and expenditures in respect of the Project of 
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project 
or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Accounts, for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts, and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Accounts was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts, 
and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association a copy of the MAC circular 
adopting the Project Implementation Plan and the Financial Management Manual;
Page  8
(b)
the Borrower has established the PSC, the Training Coordination 
Committee, and a LAMT in each Local Authority, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3, 4, and 5, respectively, of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence satisfactory to 
the Association that adequate provision has been made in MAC’s Fiscal Year 1996/1997 
budget for the Project; and
(d)
the Borrower has finalized standard bidding documents for procurement 
using National Competitive Bidding procedures.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister at the time responsible for finance of the Borrower 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
Tanzania
Cable address: 
Telex:
TREASURY
41329
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s/ Mustafa Nyang’anyi
Authorized Representative
Page  9
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category, 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
SDR equivalent)
to be financed
(1)
Civil works
    550,000
90%
(2)
Vehicles,
  3,150,000
100% of foreign 
equipment expenditures 
and 
and furniture
90% of local 
expenditures
(3)
Consultants’ services,
  6,750,000
100%
training, and studies
(4)
Works, goods,
  3,550,000
100% 
and services 
under Part D
of the Project
(5)
Incremental
operating costs
(a)
  2,100,000
100%
(b)
  3,200,000
90%
(6)
Unallocated
    400,000
(7)
Part E of
the Project
(a) 
Civil works
    200,000
90%
(b) 
Vehicles,
    450,000
100% of foreign
equipment,
expenditures and
furniture and
90% of local 
chemicals
expenditures
(c)
Consultants’
    900,000
100%
services,
training, and
studies
(d)
Incremental
    250,000
90%
operating costs
TOTAL
 21,500,000
Page  10
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means expenditures incurred for 
fuel, maintenance and operation of vehicles, office supplies and minor office 
equipment, utilities, expenditures for telephones and facsimiles, radio and television 
air time, and field allowances for Project staff.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures under Category (4) until the 
Association has approved the Pilot Subproject concerned, if it is one of the first 
five or if the cost of the Pilot Subproject is $20,000 equivalent or more.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and works under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and for consultants’ contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent for firms and $50,000 equivalent for individuals, under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to continue to improve the delivery of extension 
services to smallholder farmers in the Borrower’s territories by focusing on the 
enhancement of the technical and administrative capacity of the Local Authorities to 
provide such extension services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Strengthening
1.
Rationalizing and strengthening the crop and livestock units in MAC and Local 
Authorities for facilitating extension delivery by (a) establishing an Extension 
Service Facilitation Unit (ESFU) in MAC which shall coordinate implementation of the 
agricultural extension program; (b) establishing a strengthened financial and 
accounting management system appropriate for implementing the Project through the 
Local Authorities; (c) enhancing farmer/research/extension linkages; (d) establishing 
a monitoring and evaluation system for measuring the effectiveness of the Project 
activities; and (e) enhancing the Local Authority focus of extension delivery.
2.
Acquisition of vehicles, including motorcycles and bicycles, equipment and 
furniture, rehabilitation of field offices and construction of a limited number of 
residential houses for  Project staff.
Part B:
Extension Education and Training
1.
Staff Training
(a)
Provision of training to upgrade the skills of about 450 extension field 
assistants to enhance the effectiveness of technology transfer.
(b)
Provision of training to cover the needs of staff of Local Authorities, 
as identified in a capacity building needs assessment study.
(c)
Carrying out a training program for about 100 certificate holders and 
about 800 diploma holders in crop and livestock production.
Page  11
(d)
Provision of refresher courses in group dynamics, participatory 
approaches to agricultural extension, communications, support skills, development 
support to production, and management skills to about 1300 extension managers and 
subject matter specialists.
(e)
Carrying out a training program for front-line extension staff in 
practical skills of group mobilization, working with groups and participatory 
extension, communications, and facilitating development support.
(f)
Provision of graduate courses for about 40 extension managers and subject 
matter specialists with diploma qualifications.
(g)
Provision of post-graduate and higher diploma courses for about 80 
extension managers, and training and subject matter specialists in collaboration with 
the Sokoine University of Agriculture.
(h)
Provision of limited Project-related training to staff in Ministries 
participating in the PSC.
2.
Farmer Training
(a)
Provision of about 500 one-week residential courses for leaders of 
farmers, women, and youth groups to improve their farming skills.
(b)
Provision of about 5,000 one-day on-site training sessions for members of 
farmer groups in new extension methodologies.
(c)
Provision of farm study tours.
(d)
Acquisition of technical information bulletins and materials for farmers.
3.
Training Institutes
(a)
Acquisition of teaching aids, including library and laboratory equipment, 
farm equipment, office equipment, audio-visual aids; and
(b)
rehabilitation of agricultural extension training facilities.
Part C:
Communications
1.
Establishment of communication centers in seven zones to ensure an effective 
response to area-specific information needs of the farming communities.
2.
Reorganization of MAC’s Field Extension and Publicity Unit.
3.
Carrying out a needs assessment study of extension communication strategies.
4.
Provision of overseas training to radio program staff in radio script writing 
and a professional staff in social marketing and participatory techniques.
Part D:
Pilot Subprojects
Carrying out of Pilot Subprojects through the provision of grants to improve 
extension management, technology transfer, inter-linkages between 
farmers--extension--research, the participation of other providers in extension 
delivery, seeds production, input supply, and support for the establishment of Savings 
and Credit Cooperative Societies.
Part E:
Zanzibar 
1.
Institutional Strengthening 
(a)
Strengthening agricultural extension services in Zanzibar through the 
(i) upgrading of the skills of extension staff; (ii) enhancement of 
farmer/research/extension linkages; and (iii) establishment of participatory extension 
approaches. 
Page  12
(b)
Strengthening the capacity to develop sound agricultural innovations for 
farmers. 
(c)
Acquisition of vehicles, including motorcycles and bicycles, equipment 
and furniture, rehabilitation of research staff houses, and the construction of four 
houses for teaching staff at the Kizimbani Agricultural Training Institute. 
2.
Education and Training
(a)
Staff Training: (i) provision of short in-service training of about 120 
adaptive research and extension staff; (ii) provision of refresher courses on 
communication skills and participatory extension approaches to about 100 block 
extension officers; (iii) and carrying out of a special program of training of about 
83 students for certificate courses in crop and livestock production at the Kizimbani 
Agricultural Training Institute and about 24 students for agriculture-related diploma 
courses.
(b)
Farmer Training: (i) provision of training of about 9,100 farmers on 
aspects of integrated pest management, selection of virus-free cassava planting 
materials, compost production, grafting techniques and nursery management, research 
methodology, post harvest techniques, cooperative skills, group dynamics, record 
keeping, and improved vegetable production; (ii) provision of study tours for about 42 
farmers to Mainland Tanzania to improve husbandry practices; (iii) establishment of 
100 demonstration plots and carrying out of Farmers’ Field Days for about 1,000 
farmers; and (iv) provision of one-week residential courses on improved crops, 
livestock husbandry, and fisheries for about 300 smallholder farmers.
(c)
Support to Kizimbani Agricultural Training Institute: (i) establishment 
of a one-hectare training farm; and (ii) acquisition of reference books.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and Works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped into 
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more each and $200,000 or 
more each, respectively.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Page  13
Part C: 
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $850,000, and goods estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,700,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Force Account
Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 may, with the Association’s prior agreement, 
be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of 
the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works and goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
shortlists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports, and contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) 
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply 
to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
Page  14
the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree in carrying out the Project, the 
Borrower shall apply the procedures set out in the Project Implementation Plan, and 
the Borrower shall not amend, abrogate, or waive such Plan or any provision thereof 
which, in the opinion of the Association, will materially or adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project.
2.
(a) 
The Head of the Extension Service Facilitation Unit of MAC shall be 
responsible for the overall coordination/implementation of the Project, and shall 
closely consult with MRALG on all important issues. 
(b)
For the purposes of Part B.1 of the Project, MAC shall, in consultation 
with MRALG, be responsible for planning, organizing, and implementing staff training 
proposals in consultation with the respective Local Authority or Local Authorities. 
(c)
For the purposes of Part B.2 of the Project, the Local Authorities shall 
be responsible for implementing the farmer training programs in terms of the annual 
work plan discussed with MRALG and approved by MAC. 
(d)
For the purposes of Part B.3 of the Project, MAC shall coordinate 
activities under the Project for supporting the training institutes in carrying out 
extension training programs. 
(e) 
For the purposes of Part D of the Project, MAC shall, in consultation 
with MRALG and the respective Local Authorities, be responsible for planning and 
facilitating preparation of the subprojects; and the Local Authority shall be 
responsible for the approval and carrying out of the approved subprojects.
(f)
All Project activities at the local level shall be carried out by the 
respective Local Authority under guidelines provided by MAC, in consultation with 
MRALG. Each Local Authority shall be responsible for: 
(i) 
preparing annual work plans and budgets and securing approval from 
MAC for 
funding;  
(ii) 
making provision in the Local Authority's annual budget for 
Project activities 
in terms of the approved annual work plan; 
(iii)  implementing the approved annual work plan with due diligence and 
efficiency; 
(iv) 
monitoring and supervising the Project at the local level; 
(v) 
providing periodic progress reports on implementation to MAC, 
LAMT, the 
Regional Administrative Secretary, and others as may 
be specified by MAC and 
MRALG; 
(vi) 
providing funds to field implementers on time to secure 
satisfactory implementation; 
(vii)  maintaining records of accounts in formats satisfactory to MAC and 
MRALG 
reflecting Project expenditures and revenues; 
(viii) opening and maintaining a project account in a commercial bank 
approved by the 
Borrower and using this account to receive revenues 
and to incur expenditures 
on approved activities;
(ix) 
having the Project accounts audited by an auditor appointed by the 
Page  15
Borrower or 
nominated by the Borrower; 
(x) 
facilitating supervision of the Project by the Local Authority 
Director and 
designated officials of MAC and MRALG, including granting 
them access to 
records, accounts, and other financial books, 
as well as to Project inventory 
and inventory records; and  
(xi) 
performing all other acts necessary for execution of the Project 
in terms of 
its objectives. 
3.
(a)
The Borrower shall establish and maintain a Project Steering Committee 
under the chairmanship of the Permanent Secretary, MAC, and comprising the Permanent 
Secretaries of the MOF, the Planning Commission, MRALG, the Ministries of Community 
Development, Justice and Constitutional Affairs, and the Principal Secretaries of 
MALNR, MOF, and the Ministry of Planning and Investment of Zanzibar, heads of 
departments of MAC and MALNR, and a representative each of farmers and other extension 
providers to address policy issues, approve annual work plans and budgets, review 
program progress and audit observations, approve changes to the Project Implementation 
Plan, and provide directions for overall management of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall establish and maintain until completion of the Project 
in Zanzibar a Project Technical Committee to be chaired by the Principal Secretary, 
MALNR, and it shall comprise the Principal Secretaries of the Zanzibar Ministries of 
Finance, Planning and Investment, Women and Children, the Managing Director of the 
People’s Bank of Zanzibar and the Commissioner of MALNR. The Committee shall provide 
guidance on Project implementation and maintain oversight of implementation progress 
of the Zanzibar program.
4.
The Borrower shall, in each Local Authority, establish and maintain a LAMT with 
composition and functions acceptable to the Association. Each LAMT shall be chaired by 
the Local Authority Director and shall, inter alia, review the implementation of the 
Project in the Local Authority, liaise with NGOs and other extension providers, assist 
in raising resources locally for supporting extension activities and provide support 
in farmer mobilization and resolving farmers’ problems.
5.
The Borrower shall establish and maintain a Training Coordination Committee with 
composition acceptable to the Association to finalize the annual training plan for the 
Project, review training curricula and progress, facilitate networking between 
training institutions, and give directions for the overall management training support 
under the Project.
6.
The Borrower shall (a) not later than December 31, 1996, strengthen and maintain 
its M & E system acceptable to the Association; and (b) incorporate the findings and 
recommendations of the M&E system in the annual progress reports.
7.
The Borrower shall, by May 31 in each year, furnish to the Association, for its 
review and comments, the annual work program for the carrying out of the Project and 
supporting budgets. Such documents shall include, inter alia, a review of progress, 
implementation issues, with proposed solutions, timetables, and updated performance 
indicators.
Pilot Subprojects Under Part D of the Project
8.
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 above, Pilot Subprojects 
shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit only if they satisfy 
the criteria specified below, and in more detail in the Project Implementation Plan, 
which shall include, inter alia, the following:
(a)
the Pilot Subprojects shall cover an activity within any of the following 
areas: improvement in extension management, technology transfer, farmer/extension/ 
research linkages, participation of other providers, promotion of Savings and Credit 
Societies and farmers’ organizations;
(b)
the pilot Subprojects shall be initiated by MAC, NGOs, the private 
sector, cooperatives, or farmer groups; and
(c)
the cost of the Subproject shall not exceed $100,000 equivalent, provided 
Page  16
however, that Pilot Subprojects covering at least three Local Authorities may cost up 
to $200,000 equivalent.
9.
(a)
The LAMT, in the Local Authority concerned, shall review each proposal 
for a Pilot Subproject and make recommendations to the PSC after such proposal has 
been reviewed by the Commissioner for Agriculture and Livestock within MAC. Each Pilot 
Subproject shall be approved by the PSC.
(b)
The first five Pilot Subprojects, as well as all Pilot Subprojects whose 
total cost is $20,000 or more, shall be sent to the Association for its approval.
10.
The Pilot Subprojects shall be financed as grants under a Grant Agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and the Recipient of the grant under conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including conditions whereby the Borrower shall 
obtain rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association, 
including, to the extent appropriate, the right to:
(a)
require that the Pilot Subprojects pilot activity be carried out with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, and 
managerial standards and that adequate records be maintained;
(b)
require that the goods and works for the Pilot Subprojects to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit be procured at a reasonable cost, account being 
taken of the time of delivery, efficiency, their quality, and the competence of the 
parties rendering them;
(c)
obtain all such information as the Borrower and the Association shall 
reasonably request relating to the Pilot Subprojects; and
(d)
require the Recipients of grants to submit to MAC the final results of 
the Pilot Subprojects financed under the Project.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) with 
respect to Special Account A and Category (7) with respect to Special Account B;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into Special Account A pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to 
or exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000; and
(d)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $200,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into Special Account B pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
Page  17
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Accounts such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Accounts at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Accounts 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Accounts for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Accounts, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Accounts:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Accounts as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Accounts (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Accounts (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
Page  18
further deposit by the Association into the Special Accounts shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Accounts will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b), and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions. 
