Documst of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6239
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
LOAN 1335-IN
June 4, 1986
Bombay Metropolitan Region
Development Authority
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
LOAN 1335-IN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)             =        3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)        =        0.62 miles (mi)
1 square meter (m2)     =        10.8 square feeet (ft 2)
1 hectare (hc)          =        10,000 square meters
or 2.7 acres (ac)
1 square kilometer
(km 2)               -       0.386 square miles (mi 2)
1 kilometer per
hour (kph)                    0.62 miles per hour (mph)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
cOI                     =        Government of India
CON                     =        State Government of Maharashtra
BMRDA                   -        Bombay Metropolitan Region
Development Authority
BMC                     =        Bombay Municipal Corporation
BEST                    =        Bombay Electrical Supply & Transport
Undertaking of the Bombay Municipal Corp.
BMR                     =        Bombay Metropolitan Region
BMRDA Act               -        Bombay Metropolitan Region Development
Authority Act, 1974
(Maharashtra IV of 1975)
BMRDA (A) Act           =        Bombay Metropolitan Region Development
Authority (Amendment) Act, 1976
BMC Act                 =        Bombay Municipal Corporation Act, 1888
WSSD                    =        Water Supply & Sewerage Department of the
Bombay Municipal Corporation
TPES                    -        BMRDA Traffic Planning and Evaluation
Subcommittee
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FO  OFnQI  UK  ON4LY
TIE WOSID SANK
W.shmnton.D 0'   114
U.S.A.
ClEf a# DeWKIVCMwaM
June 4, 1986
MEMORAN1DUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on India Bombay Urban Transport Project
-(Loan 1335-IN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on India Bombay Urban Transport Project (Loan 1335-IN)"
prepared by the Bombay Metropolitan Region Development Authority. Under the
modified zystem for project performance auditing, further evaluation of this
project by the Operations Evaluation Department has not been made.
'~~~~~~~~~~
Attachment
This documenl has a estricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in thc performance
of their official duties lts contents mny cot otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autboriztion.



FOR OFFMCAL W ONLY
ND:IA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 1335-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PI8E Ng,
Preface..... ...... .............................o................. 
I * INTRODUCTION ........................................... i
b. Brief Proect Description ........................... 
c. Sources of Information    ..............................     2
II.  PROJECT - IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL ......    3
a. origin, Preparation and Appraisal                            3
b. Targets and Goals                                            4
c. Project Description                                          5
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COSTS ........................        7
a. General       .............................................  7
b. St rt-up                         ........... ...             7
c. Revisions ........a......*... ..        .                    8
Wadala Workshop      ....................................   8
Other Civil Works:  Bus Depots, Shelters/Termini  a.. 
Civil Works  ..........                              *      9
Signalization ..........            ,                      10
d. Impleientation Schedule         .............................    11
e. Reporting .....    ........................ .............    12
f., Procurement                       .....  12
Overall Position ...............................           14
h. Financing .........is ......  .  ..  ... ....               1S
i. Performance of Consultants# Contractors and Supplies*    16
IV.  OPERATING PSRFORMANCE .........*909099 .........9.........      17
V.  FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE .......       ............................    18
VI.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVEIOPMENT   ...............    19
Thi document has restficted disbu awd mW    b ud Wby rpInts oy* In t pfome
of thei ofcl duteks. Its cotets may no otwi be dised witu Wold*Dank suheitbo.



-2-
Table of Contents (Cont'd.)                                          Pale No.
Best ..... ..................................... 19
BMC ...0........... .... .        0     0    00......................... 19
Traffic Branch, Bombay Police    ........................   20
BMRDA                           ........**20
VII.  CONCLUSIONS .*...oooo.*...****o**o.o.....  .   ....o....... .oo . 21
ANNEXES
Annex 1:  List of Originally Included Items for BEST & BMC
and Those Executed Actually .......      .....................  25
Annex 1A: List of Originally Included Items for BEST & BMC
and those Executed Actually          ............................ 26
Annex 2:  Implementation Schedule, Forecast and Actual ............     28
Annex 3:  BEST's Works, Detailed Cost Estimates ...................     31
Annex 4:  Actual Costs of Various Items             ,   ,    ,          33
Annex 55  Allocation of Losn Amounts .........                          35
Anne  6:  Schedule of Disbursements * .............................. 36
Annex 7:  Source & Application of Funds . ........................... 37
Annex 8:  Performance Indicators  *01000 **..............*..........000.39
Annex 9:  BEST Income and Expense Statement          ....................... 41
Annex 10: BEST Statement of Reserves and Appropriations............ 43
Annex 11: Financing of the Project   ................................. 44
Annex 12: Bank's Comments on Project Completion Report .......  45
Annex 13: Government Comments ..........eo.....eeeeeo...00eo000000 51



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA: BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 1335-IN)
PREFACE
This report outlines the history of the Bombay Urban Transport
Project (Loan 1335-IN), examines its implementation performance, and
highlights its achievements and problems. The Loan (US$25 million) was
closed on June 30, 1984 after its original closing date (June 30, 1980) was
extended twice. The loan was fully disbursed.
This report was prepared by the Bombay Metropolitan Region
Development Authority and is based on information in the Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 1185a-IN), interviews with the staff of the Bank and various
Implementing agencies, and analysis of the project files.
The Bank's comments to the report are attached as Annex 12.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this Project Completion Report was read by the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED) but the project was not audited by OF-D staff.
The draft report was seat to the borrower and the government for zomvents.
Comments received from the government have been incorporated in the report
and are shown as Annex 13.



- Li *-
BASIC DATA ShEET
INDIA - BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
(Loan No. 1335 - IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisat
Item                      Expectation                   Actual
Total project cost (US $ million)          50.51                    45.04
(Rs crores)            44.48                    39.14
Underrun (X)                                 -                      12.0
Loan amount  (US $ million)                25.00                    25.00
Disbursed                                    -                      25.00
Cancelled                                    -                        -
Date physical components completed       12-31-1979               12-31-1984
Proportion completed by above date          55%                      100Z
Proportion of time overrun                   -                       120Z
Economic rate of return (Z)                 25 - 40                  10 - 40
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Item                        Original Plan               Actuats
First mention in files or timetable         1970
Government's Application                    1975                       -
Negotiations                                1976                      9/76
Board Approval                                -                   10-26-1976
Loan/Credit Agreement Date                  1976                  12-20-1976
Effectiveness Date                      03-12-1977              03-10-1977
Closing Date                             06-30-1980              06-30-1984
Borrower                          Bombay Metropolitan Region Development Authority (BMRDA)
Executing Agencies                Bombay Municipal Corporstion and its Undertaking viz.
Bombay Electricity Supply and Transport Undertaking 6 BMRDA.
Fiscal year of Borrower           April 1 to March 31.
Follow-on Project                 Proposed Bombay Urban Transport II.



- ill -
MISSION DATA
No.of   No. of   Person-  Date of
Mission Type           Month/Year           Weeks   persons   weeks  ryepot
Identification                     4/72               1.5        3      4.5      11/14/72
Preparation                        7/74               2.0       4       8.0     07/23/74
Pre-Appraisal                      5/75               2.0       4       8.0     06/06/75
Appraisal                          9/75               2.0        5     10.0      10/29/75
Post-appraisal                     2/76               1.5        5      7.5     03/16/76
9.0              38.0
Supervision   I                    4/77               1.7       4       6.8     04/12/77
Supervision  II                    7/77               1.7       3       5.1     09/19/77
Supervision III                   12/77               1.8       2       3.6     02/13/78
Supervision  IV                    7/78               1.8       3       5.4     09/01/78
Supervision   V                    2/79               1.8       2       3.6     03/20/79
Supervision  VI                    8/79               0.8       2       1.6     10/05/79
Supervision VII                   9/80                0.8       1       0.8     10/28/80
Supervision VIII                  12/80               1.7       2       3.4     03/10/81
Supervision IX                     6/81               1.7       2       3.4     07/23/81
Supervision  X                    11/61               2.4       2       4.8     12/22/81
Supervision XI                     3/82               1.0       1       1.0     04/16/82
Supervision XII                    3/83               2.0       1       2.0     06/08/83
Supervision XIII                   7/84               1.0       1       1.0     11/09/84
20.2              42.5
Name of Currency:                Rupees (Rs)
Exchange Rate %'1s/US$1.00):     8.80
Appraisal Year Average         8.86
Intervening Years Average      8.93
Completion Year Average       12.30



- iv -
PRIOJECT COMLETION REPORT
INDIA: BMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 1335-IN%
HIGHLIGHTS
Transport Problems in the Bombay Mltroolitan Rgion (B)
1.        The transport probl_m accompanying rapid economic and population
growth in Bombay wre diagnosed in the Staff Appraisal Report as: (1)
serious deficiecies int bus and rail mass transport services* accompanied by
overcrowding and long waiting periods; (it) weak provisions for trafflc
management, including parklig control; (iLL) ineffective planning and control
of commercial land use; (iv) inadequate public transport revenues for
equipment replacement and xpansion; and (v) inadequate provisions for
inter-oval and Inter-ogen:y regional transport invest*ot planning and
coordlnation.
Poject Objectives
2.       Ts the context of this problm analysis, the objactives of the
project were to:
(i)  achieve ime_diate improvents in the 4irating and flaancl3l
performace and carrying capacity of the buses of the Bombay
Electricity Supply and Transport Undertaking (REST);
(ii) remove bottlenecks on high volume bus routes;
(lit) commence transport planning and traffic mnagement programs for the
iNM; and
(iv) support development planning by the BMRDA for the IMM.
Project Components
3.        In order to achieve the project objectives, the project financed:
(a)  procurement of 700 buses and related chassis cmponents to replace
over age units and augment BEST's bus fleet;
(b) construction and equipping of three bus depots and a workshop, and
extension and re-equipping of three existing depots and one
workshop;



-v -
(e)  construction of 11 bus shelters/termini;
(d) execution by BMC of traffic engineering schemes of about 40
locations to improve the circulation of buses;
(e) provision of technical assistance and training to BEST;
(f)  provision of technical assistance and training to BMC in the
execution of traffic engineering measures; and
(g)  technical essistance to BMRDA to improve BMR developrent planning
and management (the Bank Loan for the project was made directly to
BMRDA with a view to strengthening its planning and coordination
powers for the project).
Summary, Findilngs and Lessons
4.        BEST Operating and Financial Performance.  Improvements were
achieved in the operating performance of 1NOT, but were only partially
achieved in respect of financial performance as the targeted (but not
covenanted) operating ratio of 100 or less was not sustained over the project
period.
5.        Retention of Surpluses by BEST.  Changes in BEST statutes sought by
the Bank and recommended by consultants were not implemented by BMC.
Consequently, * secure basis for the planning and funding of BEST's bus
investment program from internal cash generation has not been established.
However, BEST's overall and project investment in bus operations were not
seriously affected by this, because of other existing financial arrangements,
including the provision of short term loans from BMC. It would still be
desirable, however, to regularize the financial and institutional and
financial arrangements for bus fare revisions and funding bus transport
operations.
6.        Traffic Management.  The status and practice of traffic management
in the BMC was improved by the project. Expertise for traffic management was
created in the BMC and the Traffic Police and a large traffic signals system
was installed and is achieving a high benefit/cost ratio under the project.
A coherent traffic management plan was also prepared for Bombay island under
the project. However, much remains to be done to achieve the full benefits
of traffic management in Bombay island to utilize the existing capacity of
the road system and sustain the technical capacity required for traffic
management planning.
7.        Regional Investment Planning s  MRDA's capacity for regional
investment planning is being strengthened - but more slowly than had been



- vl -
hoped - as a result of the project and the Bank's additional support to BMRDA
under the Bombay Urban Development Project. The experience indicates that a
complex set of factors bear upon the success or failure of efforts to improve
the programming of regional investment, including project scope and size;
BMRDAs organizational and institutional structure; the oudtus and nature of
investment and development planning at the State Government level, and the
policy changes sought by and related to the Bank-funded project.
8.        Technical Assistance and Training.  Ihe results were mlxed:
significant contributions were made to BMC and traffic police capacity for
traffic management planning and implementation and bus operating
productivity. However, technical assistance was relatively ineffectual in
strengthening the EMRDA or assl&ting BEST in its workshop feasibility studies
and designs. In those cases where technical assistance was ineffectual, the
dauses were largely institutional; the climate for technical assistance was
adverse, involving complexitites ranging well beyond the oblectives nf the
assistance rendered under the project.



INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
LOAN 1335-IN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Sectoral Context
1.01    Bombay, India's financial, industrial and commercial capital has
experienced rapid growth and population increase over the last 2 decades or
so. The population increase has been due as much to immigration as natural
growth. This has severely strained the existing transport facilities and
civic services in Bombay and created major new public investment needs in the
existing urbanized areas as well as in the outlying growth areas of the
Bombay Metropolitan Region (BMP). A Regiunal Plan prepared in 1973 to
provide a broad framework for development up to the last decade of the twen-
tieth century documents the importance of continued industrial decentraliza-
tion efforts and giving priority to investments in water supply, sanitation,
basic shelter and public transport improvements.
1.02    In 1975, the Bombay Metropolitan Region Development Authority
(BMRDA), which had been set up in 1974, approached the IBRD through Govern-
ments of Maharashtra (COM) and India (COI) and on behalf of the Bombay
Muziicipal Corporation (BMC) and its wholly owned Ccmpany viz. the Bombay
Electric 'Apply and Transport Undertaking (BEST), for loan assistance, prin-
cipally t4 improve the road based mass transport system in Bomaby. The 1970
Bank Urban Sector Supervisory Mission had identified, intor-alia, the need
for (i) low-cost road-based public L ansport improvement; (ii) stronger
policy measures to improve transport efficiency and to control adverse
land-use; and (iii) a common regional investment program and framework, for
competing sectors and agencies. The fulfillment of these needs to the extent
possible and other allied objectives was sought through the first Bombay
Urban Transport Project (BUTP), Loan 1335-IN.
1.03    Bombay's public mass-transport system is relatively efficient and
comprises surface electric rail services operated by the Western and Central
Railways and bus services operated by the BEST, with monopoly for stage
carriage in Bombay City. In 1975 the Railways and the BEST together carried
approx. six million passenger trips daily, shared equally between BEST on the
one hand and the two railways on the other. In recent years, capacity had,



-2-
however, been lagging increasingly behind the growing demand and system
periormance and service levels have been falling. Further deterioration
could restrict access to the labor market for many of the work force and
constrain economic growth in the region.
1.04    The deficiency in the mass-transport system is the result of rapid
population and economic growth, ineffective planning and control of commer-
cial land use and inadequacy of public transport revenues to meet fleet
replacements as well as expansion costs. The BUTP sought to correct the
position by direct spending on bus fleet expansion and other maintenance
infrastructure including a large new workshop at Wadala, introduction of
commercially sound management and accounting systems and procedures in the
BEST and measures to improve bus speeds and productivity. It also sought
to upgrade the planning machinery in BMC and the BMRDA.
B. Brief Project Description
1.05    The estimated cost of the project was Rs. 44.5 crores of which about
50% was to be provided through a $25.0 million loan by the Bank; the rest
being provided by BMC and BEST. Included originally in the project were 31
Civil Engineering Works for improvement of traffic conditions (to be executed
by the BMC) and 6 bus depots, one new workshop and 11 BEST shelters/terminii
(to be executed by the BEST) at various places in the city. However, the
bulk of the expenditure was to be incurred on the purchase of 700 new single
and double decker buses by the BEST.
1.06    The original period of the project was of 3 years' duration with Loan
Closing Date set for June 30, 1980. The project in fact took mucb longer
and had to be extended twice, first by 3 years up to June 30, 1980   nd
finally by another year up to June 30, 1984. While the extensions became
unavoidable due to good and sufficient reasons explained later in this
report, it also seems in retrospect that the original estimate of 3 years was
too optimistic given the local conditions and capabilities.
C. Sources of Information
1.07    The principal documents used in preparation of this Project Comple-
tion Report (PCR) are:
(a) Appraisal Report of BUTP;
(b) Various Loan Agreements;
(c) Quarterly Progress Reports submitted by BNC/BMRDA to the Bank
throughout the project;
(d) Correspondence and internal documentations within the BMRDA; and
(e) Various Reports including preliminary Completion Reports prepared
by the BMC and BEST.



-3-
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
A. Origin, Preparation and Appraisal
2.01    The project was formulated through the efforts of the BEST and BMC
who were later joined by the BMRDA. The 1970 Bank Urban Sector Mission
mentioned in para 1.02 was followed in May 1974 by discussions between a
World Bank team and officials of BMC, BEST, GOM, GOI, etc., regarding
improvement of transport services in Bombay. A preliminary report based on
these discussions was submitted in August 1974, and in November 1974, a
pre-appraisal mission of the Bank submitted a report to the Bank. The first
feasibility report for the BUTP was prepared in May 1975, and supplementary
reports in September 1975, and January 1976. The final Appraisal Report was
prepared in March 1976 and the Loan was negotiated in September 1976. The
Loan Agreements were signed in Washington, D.C. in December 1976, and the
loan became effective on March 10, 1977.
2.02    Although most of the project identification and preparation was done
in-house by BMC and BEST with coordination by BMRDA and guidance from the
various missions of Bank staff as mentioned above, outside consultant assis-
tance was also used by BMC particularly for identifying locations for traffic
improvement/engineering works. These were selected on the basis of
Cost-Benefit Analysis of individual contending sites.
2.03    A complete list of the originally included items and the final list
is enclosed at Annex 1. It will be seen therefore that the changes were not
many and generally of small consequence particularly as regards the goals
and thrust of the project. This would indicate that the project preparation
was adequate except in estimating the time required for carrying out the
various civil works which took more than twice as long as estimated. Of the
8 flyovers originally planned 3, viz. Bharatmata, Mahim Church and Mahim
Causeway, were dropped as being insufficiently cost effective. This conclu-
sions was mainly on account of the site-by-site approach accepted by the Ban
rather than a corridorwise consideration which in retrospect seems more
appropriate under Bombay's traffic conditions. Other omissions were mainly
due to unexpected increases in cost estimates making the sub-projects below
par in cost effectiveness or due to practical problems on site.
2.04    Due to further studies done under the project and the bus travel
demand running higher than projected, the scope of the Wadala workshop was
significantly increased with capacity raised from some 2,200 buses to about
3,500 buses. The full cost of the expanded workshop project, however, was
not sought to be met from the BUTP; only buildings and facilities in the
workshop whose need was most urgent for operational purposes has been funded,
the rest being left for financing outside/after the BUTP is completed.
2.05    The project also sought to support and foster the BMRDA, which was
set up only in 1974 as a Regional Planning Authority and was in its formative



-4-
stage at the appraisal time. The planning machinery of the BMRDA was made
more oriented to centralized rather than sectoral planning. These changes
have been made rather late in the project and it is too early to assess their
effect.
2.06    Based on the recommendations of BMC's traffic consultants, two impor-
tant additions to the BUTP and new concepts in traffic management were intro-
duced. These were: (a) the modern, micro-processor based traffic signaliza-
tion system; and (b) schemes designed principally for facilitating the move-
ment of pedestrians (rather than vehicles). The traffic signalization
scheme, which is described in greater detail later in this Report was a major
addition, while the concept of deliberate planning for pedestrians was
innovative for Bombay.
2.07    It has already been mentioned that the Project Completion/Loan Clos-
ing Date had to be extended twice, first from July 30, 1980 to June 30, 1983
(3 years) and again from June 30, 1983 to June 30, 1984 (one year). Many
reasons contributed to these delays. These are dealt with in greater details
later in this report. Briefly, they were: persistent shortages of critical
building materials such as steel, cement, sand, etc.; unexpected discoveries
of major underground utility trunk mains (e.g. of water, gas, sewerage, etc.)
during excavation for foundation of traffic-engineering works; increased
scope and size of BEST's workshop at Wadala and the decision to implement the
consultant's recommendations to install the traffic signalization system
under BUTP. Having said this, it does nevertheless, seem that the original
estimate of 3 years project execution was over-optimistic. Perhaps, greater
attention to advance underground investigations may have led to a more
realistic time schedule for actual project implementation.
2.08    More effective safeguards and assurances from the authorities about
priority supply of building materials may have led to saving in execution
time. *In project identification more attention cou'ld have advantageously,
been given to benefits to general traffic stream also rather than only to
buses. Again, when selecting intersections for traffic improvements (through
traffic engineering or management measures) a corridor wise consideration may
have been more beneficial.
B. Targets and Goals
2.09    The BUTP was a strongly bus transport oriented project with the goal
of improving the mass transport system of Bombay. It envisaged improvements
in the productivity and viability of BEST's bus transport system in Bombay
along many fronts as mentioned below:



-5-
(a) Increase in bus fleet;
(b) Examining what is the most economical mix of single decker
and double decker buses and correcting the mix accordingly;
(c) Improving the quality and quantity of bus repair and maintenance
facilities through construction of a new workshop at Wadala,
improving the existing workshop at Dadar, and building new or
upgrading existing depots, shelters and terminii;
(d) Purchase of workshop machinery, equipment and other hardware;
(e) Examining the existing financial relationship between BMC and
BEST and making such changes as will help to make the BEST's
transport department financially more sound and viable;
(f) Improving BEST's management and financial management systems;
(g) Through suitable studies, to improve bus routing, operations,
etc.;
(h) Removal of bottlenecks and points of delays along roads carrying
heavy bus traffic, through traffic management and engineering
measures of various types; and
(i) Provision of technical assistance for studies, consultancies and
training to BEST staff.
2.10    Apart from these, technical assistance to BMRDA and BMC, preparation
of a Traffic Management Plan for the CBD of Bombay and two other important
city areas (Dadar and Andheri), upgrading traffic planning/management
capabilities of BMC and Traffic Police, upgrading Development and Transport
Planning capabilities of BMC and setting the BMRDA on a sound program of work
were the other objectives of the Project.
C.  Project Description
2.11    The full list of works as originally envisaged and as finally imple-
mented is given in Annex 1. The project was divided into 3 parts, A, B and C
and earmarked for execution by BEST, BMC and BMRDA, respectively.
Part A comprised:
(a) Purchase of 700 bus chassis and building single decker and
double decker bodies thereon. This constituted almost 50% of
the total project cost at Rs. 22.25 crores out of Rs. 44.47
crores;



-6-
(b) Purchase of equipment and machinery for workshops, machine
shops and depots;
(c) Construction of one large workshop and improvement to Dadar
workshops, 3 depots (new), 3 depots (improvements), 11 shelters
and terminii; and
(d) Technical Assistance and Training.
2.12    Inclusive of incremental working capital, cost of land acquisition,
physical and price contingencies, Part A was estimated to cost Rs. 32.82
crores, i.e., 74% of the project.
Part B comprised:
(a) Eight flyovers, 12 channelization works, 2 street widening,.
one bridge widening, 3 pedestrian bridges and 5 pedestrian tunnels.
These were estimated to cost Rs. 10.38 crores or approx. 23% of
the project cost. In the event, some of these works were dropped,
notably 3 flyovers and 2 pedestrian tunnels;
(b) Purchase of signalization equipment. From being a small item of
Rs. 36 lakhs this element of the project was increased greatly
to about Rs. 200 lakhs or almost 4X of the project cost on the
basis of Consultants' recommendations; and
(c) Technical Assistance and Training.
The total original allocation for the BMC (Part B) was Rs. 11.28
crores or just under 251 of the project.
Part C comprised:
(a) Technical Assistance comprising consultancies and expert
assistance for Development and Traffic Planning; and
(b) Preparation of a Regional Investment Plan (BIP) by BMRDA.
shops and depots.
The Total allocation for part C was only Rs. 0.37 crores.



-7-
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COSTS
A. General
3.01    A table giving the time-table of various works as per appraisal and
as per actual is at Annex 3. Project implementation has taken more than
twice as long as originally envisaged i.e., 7-1/2 years after the Loan Agree-
i2nts were signed instead of 3 years. Two major items of work, viz., sig-
nalization system and Wadala Bus Workshop were not completed although both
had been expanded to more than twice their original size. There were several
reasons for this large delay the most important and common being:
- Persistent and recurring shortages of such essentials as steel,
cement and sand;
- Land Acquisition problems;
- Socio-political problems posed by recalcitrant squatters in the
rights-of-way of roads and flyovers;
- Construction set-backs due to civil commotion, etc.;
- Unexpected discoveries of underground services during foundation
excavations;
- Problems of traffic diversion and consequent difficulty in taking
up several traffic engineering works, along the same corridor
simultaneously;
- Discontinuation of consultancies and taking up work departmentally;
- A serious accident during construction of one flyover; and
- Expansion in scope of some sub-projects (signalization and Wadala
Workshop) mid-way through the project on the basis of fresh studies
or changed conditions.
3.02    The actual problems, where significant are mentioned below.
B. Start-up
(a) The various Loan Agreements were signed in Washington, D.C. on Decem-
ber 20, 1976; but the date on which the Loan became effective was only March
10, 1977. The delay, which was due to time required for completing certain
formalities/legal documents as required by the Bank, did not, however, have
any material impact on execution schedule although 2-1/2 months of fair
weather was lost right at the beginning;



-8-
* (b) In respect of many traffic engineering works the lack of reli-
able/correct maps of underground lines such as gas/water mains, power and
sewer lines proved a stumbling block at the outset, sometimes calling for
extensive diversionary works, design changes, etc;
* (c) The approval of the BMC for award of contracts was occasionally not
forthcoming in time and this led to delays;
* (d) The original insistence of the Bank on BEST maintaining separate
registers of contractors for civil works under BUTP and advertising tenders
in nationwide papers was found to be time consuming but ineffective. This
was given up with Bank's approval;
C. Revisions: Part A (BEST)
Wadala Workshop
3.03    This was envisaged originally as a facility for about 2,000 buses.
For this a site had been identified and arrangements to transfer 20 acres of
land had been finalized. However, partly as a result of fresh studies and
partly due to new planning of facilities and work load distribution between
the old workshop at Dadar and the new workshop at Wadala, the scope of the
latter was greatly increased. The capacity was raised to 3,500 buses; the
land requirement was first increased to 30 acres and later to 40 acres. The
cost was raised from Rs. 1.93 crores (Appraisal Report) crores to Rs. 10.74
crores, making it impossible to be fully funded from the BUTP loan. The
consultancy for detailed study for work procedures, etc. and workshop design
was discontinued by BEST one year after the project commenced. These two
factors together totally changed the size, shape and schedule of the
workshop. Only some critical buildings, apart from land development,
approach road, etc. have been financed under BUTP with a total disbursement
of Rs. 2.55 crores against an expenditure of Rs. 5.75 crores. Due to these
changes the improvement plans for the existing workshop at Dadar were also
suitably modified.
3.04    The extra amount of loan funds was found from the amount of $5.0
million which though loosely earmarked for the BEST, was kept unallocated in
the Loan Agreements. (A part of this unallocated amount was also utilized
for the BMC's (Part B) signalization project.)
Other Civil Works: Bus Depots, Shelters/Termini
3.05    The improvement to Worli Depot could not be done because the public
road passing through it could not be closed, which in turn was due to
inability to construct the substitute viz. Drainage Channel Road (the reason
for this has been explained in Part B). However, the remaining 5 depots were
built as planned. Eleven bus shelters/termini were originally included in



-9-
the BUTP, 10 have been compLe.ed. The location of some of these had to be
revised due to land/acquisition problems. The new locations are selected
while ensuring that operational considerations are met. One bus terminal, -
Malabar Hill - could not be taken up due to lack of space in the location and
other administrative difficulties.
3.06    The consultancy for new workshop at Wadala was discontinued by BEST
in June 1979, i.e. 12 months after award. The planning/designing work was
carried out departmentally.
3.07    As the BMC did no accept the consultant's recommendation to make
suitable changes in section 460 KK and 460LL of the BMC Act, the present
requirement regarding annual payment by BEST to BMC of Rs. 40 lakhs as well
as part of surpluses continues as per status quo ante. In this, matter
therefore, the revision sought by the Bank did not come about.
Part B (BMC)
Civil Works
3.08    Out of the 8 flyovers originally planned, 3, viz. Bharat Hata, Mahim
Church and Mahim Causeway, were dropped from the project and not built.
These revisions were due to various reasons including the Bank's
non-acceptance of benefit evaluation of the structures based on value of time
as well as local/on-site problems. For example, in the case of Bharat Mata
new apprehensions about adding to pedestrians' problems (due to other
flyovers being built nearby at both ends) were the deciding factor; in the
case of Mahim Causeway the original design was found to be inadequate due to
the addition of a fourth road at the junction; and at Mahim Church, fear of
serious problems with underground utilities led to cancellation of the
sub-project.
3.09    Another sub-project which was expected to be very cost-effective i-
improving traffic flow along a vital north-south arterial, viz. Drainage
Channel Road, could not be taken up due to the failure of the authorities to
relocate the large number of squatters' houses falling in the ROW of the
road. Relocation of hutment dwellers is a sensitive socio-political issue
and it is not always easy to resolve such problems.  A suitable location ne'r
their existing place simply was not available and this frustrated all efforLs
of BMC & BHRDA officials to execute this work. Another effect of this
failure was that the road passing through the nearby Worli Bus Depot could
not be closed as planned - and thus that Bus Depot could not be upgraded.
3.10    Two (out of 5 planned) pedestrian subways - at Khodadad Circle, Dadar
and Shivaji Park - were also dropped. It was found in both cases that works
to divert large water mains was unavoidable, the cost of which would render
the sub-project uneconomical. Unfortunately, no alternative solution was



-10-
devised and the original problem has remained and in fact worsened.
(Foot-over-bridges are largely ignored by pedestrians in Bombay).
Signalization
3.11    Although improvement to the existing signal system in Bombay had been
)riginally envisaged under the project this was expected to be of a rela-
tively minor nature as reflected by the provision of Rs. 0.36 crores (includ-
ing price contingencies). However, as a result of the recommendations of the
consultants engaged by BMC for TSM study in Bombay, it was decided by BMC -
and agreed by the Bank (and BMRDA) - to undertake a major modernization and
improvement of the system by installing a modern, micro-processor based
integrated system in selected areas. The cost of this system including the
additional consultancy efforts for designing and preparing specifications,
etc. is Rs. 2.84 crores.
3.12    For enabling the use of BUTP funds for this purpose, para 2 of Part
B, Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement (Description of the Project) was amended.
(Refer Bank's letter dated June 24, 1980).
3.13    Similarly, to enable disbursement against cost incurred in construct-
ing the essential access roads to the Dharavi Bus Depot and the Wadala
Workshop of the BEST, which were included in the project, a para (No.6) was
added to part A of the Schedule 2 (Refer letter dated January 1, 1979 of the
Bank).
Part C (BMRDA)
3.14    After awarding the two consultancies for Organization and Staffing
System and Accounting and Financial Management System (APMS), the BMkDA
discontinued both consultancies preferring to proceed further departmentally.
With the Bank's agreement the BMRDA decided not to engage an Urban Traffic
Policy Adviser and avoid duplication since high calibre, foreign Traffic
Consultants had already been engaged by BMC, in whose jurisdiction the evolu-
tion of a proper Traffic Policy was important. On the recommendations of the
BMRDA and approval of the Bank the Traffic Police Department was also
associated more closely with the project since management and enforcement of
traffic regulation was the statutory responsibility of the Police and not
BMC. With Bank approval Traffic Police officers were sent for training and
certain equipment such as motor cycles, walkie talkie sets, CCTVs and Video
Monitors, etc. were purchased by BMC for the Traffic Police.
3.15    The BMRDA did not engage an Urban Transport Policy Adviser.  However,
the BMRDA has prepared a Regional Investment Plan for the period 1985-86 to
1990-91 (to coincide with India's 7th Five Year Plan) which clearly brings
out the large investments required in, inter alia, the urban transport sector
in the BMR.



-ll-
D. Implementation Schedule
3.16    Annex 2 shows the implementation schedule as per Appraisal Report and
as per actuals. The very wide discrepancies therein are perhaps due to not
only the various causes for delays, but also the l4kelihood that the original
targets were over-optimistic and did not make sufficient allowances to local
conditions and capabilities. For example, it should have been taken into
account that if (as per Appraisal Report) in the period January 1978 to
January 1979 all 8 flyovers had to be under construction - 6 of them on the
Central corridor alone - the resulting daily traffic problems would have been
virtually unmanageable. Due to the narrowness of the city, its pattern of
traffic and the consequent close interaction between corridors it may have
been extremely difficult for the Traffic Police to agree to permit such
multiple-thrombosis of the main traffic arterials. Perhaps greater associa-
tion of Traffic Police from the pre-appraisal stage itself may have resulted
in a more coherent traffic diversion plan and a more realisable time
schedule.
3.17    Major delays were caused by the discovery of utility mains unexpec-
tedly when excavation for foundations of the heavy traffic engineering works
(flyovers and subways) was taken up. This resulted in the need for diversion
of these utilities or redesign of the foundation or - most often - both.
These were very time consuming and resulted in large slippages, and cost
increases. Thus, the average flyover construction period was 39 months (with
a maximum of 67 months and minimum of 22 months) whereas as per Appraisal, it
was expected to be 21 months. With traffic problems getting extended over
literally years together there was considerable public resentment and
anti-flyover feelings. With hindsight, it seems essential to develop/adopt
techniques and systems which will enable the construction of flyovers quickly
(within 4 to 6 m), with only short periods of traffic disturbance if a
program of grade separation of intersections is to be taken up - as seems to
ke indeed urgently needed.
3.18    Special mention is necessary of an accident which took place duriIg
precasting of 36 m span girders for the Gloria Church flyover. Although no
casualties were caused, the delay was increased due to the enquiry ordered by
COM and for which debris clearance was stayed for several weeks.
3.19    With the flyover program getting extended so greatly, delays in
other, smaller works (which were not on the critical path in the first place)
did not contribute to overall project period extension. However, two
sub-projects extended well beyond the date of commissioning of the last
flyovers. Thfse were, the BEST's Wadala Workshop and the BMC's Modern Sig-
nalization System. The delays in both were due to a somewhat belated deci-
sion to expand the project scope and size substantially.
3.20    The circumstance and nature of these expansions has already been
described in paras 3.03 and 3.11. Construction work on the Wadata works



-12-
beyond the stage of land reclamation commenced by February 1982. By the Loan
Closing date two buildings, which are to house the most critical facilitiest
were completed. The contract for installation of the new signalization
system was let with effect from April 8, 1982 and completed by Mty 1985 (by
the Loan Closing Date 5 of the 6 "corridors" had been signalized)
3.21    Other causes for slippages in the implementation schedules were
shortar 3s of essential building materials such as cement, steel and sand.
These shortages were experienced from time to time and for prolonged periods.
Delays in approvals to award of contracts by the BEST committee and/or the
BMC also made it difficult to adhere to schedules.
3.22    Remedial steps such as obtaining prior assurances for uninterrupted
supply of essential materials, time limits for decisions on contract awards
and where excavation of foundations is involved, prior investigations of
location and extent of underground utilities would go a long way to minimis-
ing delays in future projects.
E. Reporting
3.23    Quarterly reports in proformae originally prescribed by the-Bank with
some minor modifications based on experience, were submitted by BMC and BEST
to the BMRDA, who sent a consolidated Report (including BMRDA's part C) to
the Bank, throughout the project.
3.24    In addition, special briefs and reports were prepared and surlied to
members of Bank supervisory missions during their visits to Bombay from time
to time. The reporting system was generally satisfactory.
F. Procurement
3.25    No special difficulties were experienced in respect of procurement or
engagement of Consultants. The largest procurement item - which was also the
largest single expenditure item viz., bus chassis - was done in two tranches
of 500 and 200 chassis and completed almost on schedule. The delivery of the
last chassis out of the first tranche was completed in August 1978, instead
of March 1978, as planned. The delay in the second tranche was slightly
longer, i.e., October 1979, instead of March 1979. A minor dispute related
to the desire of the BEST Committee to award contract for 120 single decker
chassis to the second lowest bidder for maintaining a measure of diversifica-
tion in fleet. This was, however, rejected by the Bank and all chassis were
supplied by the single, lowest bidder.
3.26    In case of machinery, 25 tendered items could not be awarded at all
for want of acceptable offers. Due to grouping of heterogenous items with
costs ranging from a few thousand to over a lakh of rupees in only three ICB
tenders (and the high cost of tender documents), small suppliers were vir-
tually shut out from the bidding process. A better response might have been



-13-
evoked if separate tenders had been floated according to type and cost of
machinery items. Bus chassis and machinery was put to ICB tender. But
chassis bids were significantly below cost estimates, as may be seen from
Annex 3.
3.27    Another important procurement item was the new Traffic Signal system.
OC the basis of tenders and specifications prepared by BIC's TSM Consultants
ICB tenders were invited for signalizing 74 intersections in 6 distinct
"corridors". The tenders, which were for supply and installation of the
system, were invited in September 1981 and the contract worth Rs. 150 lakhs
awarded in April 1982. This contract was later expanded to include 82 junc-
tions with a total cost of Rs. 213 lakhs. In the award of this contract
there was a brief dispute between the Bank and BMC who somewhat belatedly
desired to apply criteria for selection which were not included in the tender
documents on grounds of larger national interest. Finally, however, BMC
agreed to adhere to Bank guidelines in such matters.
C. Costs
Part A (BEST)
3.28    The final list of sub-projects executed and their estimated (as per
Appraisal Report) and actual costs is given in Annex 3. For 700 bus chassis,
bodies and spares, against a total estimated cost of Rs. 19.18 crores ($21.8
million, excluding contingencies) the actual cost was Rs. 16.35 crores
($19.76 million) yielding a saving of Rs. 2.83 crores ($2.04 m) i.e., 14.75%.
On the Wadala workshop actual cost incurred was Rs. 5.75 crores ($5.75 m.)
which may be compared with the provision of Rs. 1.93 crores ($2.20 m.) as
shown in the Appraisal Report. However, the additional expenditure became
necessary as the size of the workshop was increased considerably. The
remaining (BEST) civil works (depots, sheltters, terminii) have actually cost
Rs. 3.48 crores ($4.15 m.) against an estimate of Rs. 2.70 crores ($3.06 m.).
This represents a cost overrun of almost 27% and even greater when it is
considered that two smaller works (Worli Depot and Malabar Hill terminal)
have been dropped altogether. Total expenditure on Part A (BEST) of the
project has been Rs. 26.97 crores ($31.35 m.) against the total estimated
Rs. 25.05 crores ($28.48 m.) excluding contingencies, land price and working
capital. Thus, overall saving in bus purchase and higher expenditure in the
workshop have evened out, particularly in rupee terms. The larger or more
erratic differences between the estimated and actual expenditures in Dollar
equivalents are due to the large fluctuations from year to year in the
exchange rate which was reckoned at Rs. 8.8 (= 1 $) in Appraisal, went down
to an average Rs. 7.9 in 1980-81 and was about Rs. 10.3 in 1983-84.
Part B (BEST)
3.29    In part B (BMC), as will be seen from Annex 4, the cost of the 5
flyovers built amounted to Rs. 4.51 crores ($5.05 m.). This represents a



-14-
substantial cost overrun compared to the Appraisal Report estimate (of Rs.
4.11 crores ($4.66 m.) which was for 8 flyovers. By way of quick comparison,
it is worth noting that the average actual cost per flyover has been Rs. 0.9
crores whereas, as per Appraisal, this was estimated at Rs. 0.5 crores. The
increased cost is due to escalation on account of delays, unexpected expendi-
ture on reloriting underground service mains and the accident during Gloria
Church Flyover construction.
3.30    The total actual cost of other civil works of part B is Rs. 1.7
crores ($2.00 m.) against Appraisal Report estimate of Rs. 3.38 crores ($3.84
m). The lower cost is due mainly to non-construction of 2 pedestrian tun-
nels, the Drainage Channel Road and one other minor traffic managem2nt work
at Opera House.
3.31    The total civil works expenditure in Part B is thus Rs. 6.21 crores
($7.05 m.) against the estimate of Rs. 7.49 crores ($8.5 m.).   ius total
civil works cost under BUTP is Rs. 14.21 crotes ($15.79 m.) against an
estimated Rs. 12.12 crores ($13.76 million).
3.32    The expenditure on traffic control equipment was estimated in the
Appraisal Report at Rs. 0.30 crores (0.35 m.). By virtue of the expansion
and qualitative upgradation of this sub-project in response to the TSM Con-
sultants' recommendation, the actual outlay has risen to Rs. 2.13 crores
($2.09m).
3.33    Similarly, the expenditure on Technical Assistance under Part B has
risen from Rs. 0.26 crotes ($0.30 m.) to Rs. 0.53 crores ($0.61 million).
This increase is on account of a second consultancy for design of signal
system and training of traffic police personnel both of which were added to
the project. Due to higher expenditure on civil works the category-wise
allocations under the loan had to be adjusted in Schedule 1 of the Loan
Agreement wherein the allocation under Item 1.  (Civil Works) was raised from
$7 million to $7.5 million.  At the end, however, a further increase to
slightly over $8 million in this category was necessitated.
Part C (BEST)
3.34    Total expenditure on this part has been restricted to Rs. 0.2 crores
($0.22 million) against the Rs. 0.32 crores ($0.34 million) provided.
Overall Position
3.35    The total expenditure on the project has thus been Rs. 36.04 ($41.32
million) against Appraisal cost of Rs. 33.37 crores ($37.91 m.) excluding
contingencies, land costs, working capital, etc. The actual expenditure
according to the categories mentioned in Schedule I of the Loan Agreement
is as follows:



-15-
Rs. in Crores     $ Million
1.  Civil Works                        14.33              15.91
2.  Buses, bus-components,
workshop equipments and
traffic control equipment          19.47              23.00
3. Technical Assistance and
Training                           1.01               1.17
Total               33.85             39.17
3.36    The ScLedule 1 of the Loan Agreement has had to be revised to reflect
the requirement of funds uwider the various categories. Both the civil works
and bus categories have had to be substantially increased. These adjustments
have b.en made by reappropriation of the amount of $5 million originally kept
unallocated. The Schedule 1, as per original, as amended vide World Bank
letter dated July 8, 1981 and per actuals is shown in Annex 5.
H. Financing
3.37    The undernoted Table summarises the financing of the proje,t and
compares the actuals with the arrangements as envisaged in the Project
Appraisal Report.
Source of Project Funds
(Rupees in Crores)
Internal 'unds
and open market
Agency        borrowing             IBRD Loan                Total
As per            As per   As reimbur-    As per
Appraisal         Appraisal sible on        Appraisal
Report   Actual   Report   Actual basis   Report   Actual
(upto 31-7-84)
BEST         16.2    10.96      16.6        16,01        32.8      26.97
BMC           6.3     3.35       5.00        5.95        11.3       9.30
BMRDA          -      0.06       0.4         0.14         0.4       0.20
Total       22.5    14.37      22.00      22.10         44.50    36.47
X           50      39         50         61           100       100
3.38    The loan of $25.0 million covered about 56Z of the project expendi-
ture including price of land, contingencies, working capital, etc.  The
Appraisal estimate was that the loan would cover 50X of the project cost.
The difference between the two is due to dropping of some major civil works
carrying benefit of 50X reimbursement and increased expenditures on projects
like signalization, etc. carrying benefit of 100Z reimbursement.



-16-
3.39    The Table at Annex 6 shows the lag between expected disbursement
schedule and the actual disbursements The lag was mainly in respect of the
civil works category of expenditure.
3.40    In Annex 9 the statement of sources and application of funds for BEST
is given.
I. Performance of Consultants, Contractors and Supplies
3.41    Consultants were engaged by BEST, BMC & BMRDA in the areas relating
to their project requirements. BEST engaged consultants for the following
studies:
(a) Commuter Behavior and route rationalization;
(b) Bus Management Study;
(c) Design of new workshop at Wadala & Modernization of Dadar Workshop;
(d) Bus body improvement; and
(e) Financial Review of Section 460 KK & 460 LL of BMC Act.
3.42    In general all consultants' performance was satisfactory but
implementation of their recommendations was inhibited to a greater or lesser
degree by practical operational considerations and/or prevailing -.
socio-political circumstances. Thus, for example, though route rationaliza-
tion studies demonstrated feasible economies their acceptance by the com-
muters being very doubtful the recommendations could not be implemented
fully. The recommendation of the financial consultants to amend section 460
KK and 460 LL of the BMC Act were rejected by the Bombay Municipal Corpora-
tion. In the case of the workshop design, consultants the BEST found it
preferable to discontinue the consultancy after studying the first two
Interim Reports, and to carry out the work internally.
3.43    BMC engaged an expatriate consultancy firm for preparing a TSM plan
for Bombay CBD, Dadar and Andheri.  A pedestrianization scheme has been
partly implemented and installation of a modern signalization system has been
completed on the basis of their recommendations There are other recommenda-
tions such as extension of S.B. Marg, low-level flyover at Dadar (W) station,
subways at VT, etc. which are not yet taken up for want of funds, though
their need is accepted.
3.44    BMRDA engaged a firm of management and financial consultants for
organization, staffing and systems and accounting and financial management
studie'., but the assignments were discontinued before completion due to
various practical difficulties.
3.45    A large number of contractors/suppliers were inevitably involved in
the BUTP mainly for works carried out by BEST & BMC under Parts A & B. In
part A the prime supplier was Ashok Leyland (bus chassis) and except for some
small delays in delivery schedules (due to factory strike) the performance



-17-
was satisfactory. In general, performance of contractors and suppliers was
satisfactory. The desirability of adopting a more flexible procedure for
procuring the numerous heterogenous parts, machinery and equipment items has
already been remarked upon earlier (vide para 3.26).
3.46    In respect of part B, civil works contractors performed satisfac-
torily, but were often plagued by problems due to running into underground
utility lines during foundation excavations. In the case of one contractor,
progress on flyovers was extra slow due to his taking up more work than he
could simultaneously handle. This contractor could not finish one of the
flyovers which was involved in a construction accident and the work had to be
transferred to another contractor.
3.47    Worthwhile incentive clauses, which could help speed up works along
main traffic arteries should be included in all future contracts, together
with strict penalty clauses.
3.48    The contractor for supply and installation of the new signalization
system was a well-known, multi-national firm whose performance was at par
with expectations.
3.49    The Urban Transport Economics Adviser was not engaged by the BMRDA
due to an internal assessment that it would be premature to do so under BUTP.
It was felt that in order to make best use of the limited time for which such
an Adviser could be engaged, it was necessary to have at hand the full data
generated by the ongoing CRRI study which was unfortunately much delayed. By
the time the BUT Project terminated. however, this data had been just
received and the BMRDA'S own in-house staff expertise was at the level where
the services of such an Adviser could be fully utilised.
IV. OPERATING PERPORMANCE
4.01    Annex 8 is a table of several indicators of the year-by-year operat-
ing performance of BEST, as projected by the World Bank and actuals. It will
be seen therefore that despite setbacks and large slippages the BEST has been
able to keep up with the performance that was expected at Appraisal.
Illustratively, for 1976-77, 1979-80 and 1983-84, the indicators as projected
by Bank and actuals are, respectively, as follows:



-18-
1976-77          1980-81        1983-84
Indicator          W.B.   Actuals   W.B.   Actuals   Actuals
1. Fleet Owned at year
end                     1728    1667       2050   2049       2325
2. Effective fleet          1628    1614       1534   1938       2289
3. Fleet Utilization on
av. effective fleet    91.95%  92.06%        92%  92.18%    90.43%
4. Daily av. passengers
carried                  3.07M   3.30M      3.89M  4.29M      3.65M
5. Load factor
X                   70.45   73.50      73.86  78.83        68
6. Vehicle utilization      215     222        219    216        208
Kms/day
4.02    This has been managed by a judicious and flexible management approach
to bus retirement and maintenance policies and other measures of an ad-hoc
nature. To some extent, this has been helped by a fall in traffic demand
since 1981-82. So far as BMC's traffic engineering works (under part B) are
concerned assessment of whether targets have been achieved is much more
difficult, the more so due to the great increase in general traffic and
congestion levels by the time the project was completed as compared to its
target completion date (1980). However, actual measurements by BMC of travel
times along the central-corridor on which all five flyovers have been built
indicate that despite the higher traffic levels, the average travel time has
reduced from 54 minutes to 42 minutes from Sion to Crawford Market. This
does not reflect benefits expected to accrue when fine tuning and simul-
taneous operation of all new traffic signals has become stabilized.
V. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
5.01    In respect of financial performance, BEST was the main (if not only)
expected beneficiary under this project. The details regarding actual finan-
cial results are given in Annex 9. It will be seen therefore that financial
losses on the transport operations of BEST have generally increased, despite
fare revisions effected from September 23, 1975 (20%), August 21, 1980 (19%),
March 23, 1981 (14%), April 1, 1982 (27%) and June 1, 1984 (15%). This is
mainly due to an increase in cost of bus chassis and bodies; general infla-
tionary trends and increase in (dearness allowance) payments to employees.
The comparative table of working and operating ratios of BEST as projected by
the bank and actuals is given below:



-19-
Working    Ratio    Operating Ratio
W. B.    Actual    W. B.    Actual
1975-76                  90        90         106      106
1976-77                  91        83         107       97
1977-78                  89        89         105      105
1978-79                  88        85         103      100
1979-80                  85        92         101      107
1980-81                  85        98         100      114
1981-82                   -       101         -        117
1982-83                   -        95         -        110
1983-84                   -       104         -        119
A statement of reserves and appropriations of BEST from 1973-74 to
1982-83 is at Annex 10.
VI.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
6.01    The project had institutional targets of varying scope and importance
for the various organizations involved, as will be noted from the separate
reports below.
BEST
6.02    Some internal arrangements were made to improve the management set up
and procedures in BEST. The post of Chief Development Adviser with
appropriate job description was created and manned. An Operations and
Management Cell was formed.  An improved Management Information System with
better periodical status reports in physical and financial terms, has been
developed.
Several BEST officers, representing various BEST departments were
sent abroad for formal (short) training courses or study tours.
BMC
6.03    For the purpose of executing the various traffic engineering and
associated civil works the traffic and bridges section of the BMC had been
strengthened substantially by creating and manning additional posts of one
Deputy City Engineer (Projects), 5 Executive Engineers and supporting staff.
The new section worked in close contact with BMC's Consultants for the Traf-
fic Management Plan for Bombay. Thus they gained valuable experience of
modern traffic and transportation planning policies, methods and works. The
set-up created for the project is likely to continue and thus be a permanent
asset. In fact a new, high-level post of Chief Engineer (Roads) has been
created with overall control of works of roads, bridges, traffic (and storm
water drainage). The post of Executive Engineer (Monitoring) created only
for BUTP has been made a permanent feature of BMC's organization.



-20-
6.04    An extensive training program of technical officers at various levels
was organized through the Consultants. This arrangement was effective. The
training was of various types such as formal (short) courses or study tours
or a combination of the two.
6.05    The question of whether or not to change the status quo in respect of
traffic enforcement/management machinery in Bombay, i.e. sharing of work and
responsibility between BMC and the Traffic Police was considered in the early
stages of the project. A suggestion tnat this entire work and responsibility
be transferred to BMC was considered by GOM but turned down because of
anticipated problems in enforcement of traffic rules on the street and
related legal and operational matters.
Traffic Branch, Bombay Police
6.06    In view of para 6.05 above, on BMRDA's recommendation, training
program for the Deputy Commissioner oi Police (Traffic) and a few of his
supporting officers was arranged under the project. Moreover, some hardware
for improved traffic regulation such as 40 motorcycles, CCTV, Video Monitor
and 40 walkie talkie sets, etc. was procured by BMC on behalf of the Traffic
Police. It is felt that the later inclusion of the Traffic Police personnel
in the beneficiaries has been especially useful. With the introduction of
a modern, micro-processor based signalization system in Bombay, improvements
in the organizational set-up and technical capability of the Traffic Police
Department was essential. Accordingly, an electronic cell comprising mainly
of one Electronics-cum-Computer Engineer and one Electronic Engineer has been
set up under the Deputy Commissioner Police (Traffic). This cell will take
over the operating and maintenance responsibilities when the current contract
with the suppliers expires.
BMRDA
6.07    Perhaps, the main intended recipient of organizational development
inputs as reflected in the Appraisal Report was to be the BMRDA. This was
partly because prior to 1976 the BMRDA was in its earliest infancy and partly
due to the Bank's vision about what the BMRDA's role should be in respect of
Regional Planning and Investment Programming for the BMR. In keeping with
this approach the Loan funds, 99X of which were meant for use by BMC and
BEST, were channelized through the BMRDA who also monitored the project,
prepared and submitted periodical (Quarterly) progress reports to the Bank
and generally played the role of coordinator, trouble shooter, etc. for
smoothing the progress of the project. For this purpose a special Project
Coordinating and Monitoring Unit (PCMU) had been set up in the Transport and
Communication (T&C) Division of the BMRDA.
6.08    The project objectives related to making BMRDA progressively the
leader institution for forging regional development policies and programs,



-21-
resource mobilization and financing of key projects of regional importance,
maintaining a regional information system/data bank, preparing development
plans, action programs and projects, preparing and administering selected
development controls and regulations, etc.
6.09    The above was sought to be achieved through the engagement of Con-
sultants for (a) Organization Staffing and Systems Management; (b) Accounting
and Financial Management System and induction of an Urban Transport Policy
tdviser and an Urban Economic Adviser, each for 12 man months.
6.10    While the extent to which these objectives were achieved is rather
patchy (as discussed at greater length together with probable cause later in
this report), major organizational changes were made towards the end of the
project period. The three level decision making structure was subjected to
drastic changes by reducing the size of the apex body (the Authority) from 46
to 17 members. The middle level decision making Committee, viz., the Stand-
ing Committee was abolished altogether. The three Functional Boards (viz.,
Transport and Communications; Housing, Urban Renewal and Ecology and Water
Resources Management) were abolished. In the new secretariat-level organiza-
tional set up, six Divisions, viz., Planning, Transport and Communications;
Town and Country Planning, Engineerini,; Administration; and Finance and
Accounts, have been established. The new setup reflects more closely the
Bank's image of the BMRDA with strong centralized planning and secondary role
for sectoral planning.
6.11    The new set-up is less than 1-1/2 years old and hence comment on its
effectiveness and more so its comparison with the earlier set-up would be
rather premature at this stage.  The BMRDA has nonetheless benefitted by its
involvement with the BUTP and is at present a better quality and more
experienced organization than when the project began.
6.12    A senior officer of the T&C Division, BHRDA was the sole recipient of
technical assistance, through a study tour, under the project.
VII.  CONCLUSIONS
7.01    The primary objective of the BUTP was to improve the efficiency,
productivity and capacity of the BEST through au"mentation of the bus fleet,
improving its maintenance and increasing average bus speeds through better
traffic management, selected traffic engineering works and (signal) systems.
These have been clearly achieved. Some of the secondary, though important,
objectives related to organisational, fiscal and management aspects of the
BEST, BMC & BMRDA. Success in achieving these objectives has been less
uniform.
7.02    Moreover, in the full sectoral perspective of urban transport in BMR
or even Bombay itself, the first BUTP project must be seen as a good, though
small beginning. Considerable amount of additional investments in other



-22-
urban transport modes and systems would have to be made early if the gains
made through the BUTP are to be consolidated and built upon. Further, a
strong effort needs to be made to lay down policies which recognize the
predominant role of mass transport systems and therefore, positively
encourage them and which do not, moreover, hesitate to impose reasonable
restraints on cars in Bombay. Suitable institutional development is also
required to ensure that land use and transport policy and planning is
integrated. Such a multi-objective project is possible only through a
second, much larger and multi-model BUTP-II.
Part A (BEST)
7.03    This part of the project, which accounted for 72% of the loan and 74%
of total actual project expenditure, was the most successful. All 700 buses
were purchased and put on the city roads in the first half, of the project
period. Similarly five of the six depots, 10 out of 11 shelters and terminii
were built. Although the progress of the construction of the workshop was
seriously behind schedule, the workshop under construction is much larger in
capacity than originally envisaged.
7.04    As far as making the transport operations financially self supporting
there has been less success. Perhaps, this was to be expected in the current
socio-political millieu and policies. The BMC did no agree to the.proposed
changes in the relevant sections of its Act (Sections 460 KK & 460;LL) which
would have enabled BEST to retain any surpluses and be relieved of the annual
burden of contributing to BMC's exchequer. Thus fare increases have con-
tributed little to changing BEST's financial condition. Surpluses,. if any,
have also shown tendencies to generate demands for higher wages (Dearness
Allowance) by staff thus absorbing benefits.
7.05    The traffic volume handled by BEST after initially rising (from 33.01
lakhs daily in 1976) at a faster than expected rate to 42.95 lakhs in 1980-81
has been steadily falling since then and stood in 1982-83 at only 36.38
lakhs. It has registered a marginal increase to 36.52 lakhs in 1983-84.
Part of this fall may be attributable to repeated fare increases from Decem-
ber 1975 (to March 1984) though other reasons, such as the proliferation of
cheap three wheeler taxis in the suburbs, may have also have had their
effect.
Part B - BMC
7.06    The traffic engineering and management works were handled by the BMC
though their primary justification was also to improve average bus speeds of
BEST. In retrospect, it seems that the somewhat piecemeal approach of
selecting individual intersections for improvement through Cost Benefit
Analysis, while useful, has a somewhat short-lived validity in a linear city
like Bombay. A corridor wise approach for improvement may have had greater
and longer lasting impact.



-23-
7.07    The scheduling of the civil engineering road works was rather over
optimistic, considering that the knowledge of BMC about the location of the
underground utility lines was extremely uncertain. In the even, large slip-
pages occurred in almost all major traffic engineering works which required
relatively deep foundations.
7.08    Several more such works for optimizing the utilization of the road
network are called for. However, the speed of construction of flyovers was
too slow (average over 3 years/flyover) and a system and/or machinery which
will speed up construction greatly seems a dire necessity.
7.09    The TSM Consultancy too resulted in several recommendations which are
of obvious importance and priority. One of these, viz., installation of a
modern, micro-processor based signal system in selected sectors has been
implemented. Others, equally important, such as the extension of the
Senapati Bapat Marg have not been implemented for want of funds. These,
together with extending the signal system to cover more of the city should be
implemented as soon as possible.
7.10    The Traffic Police Department was brought into the mainstream of the
project during implementation, to the benefit of the Department as well as
the project. In future projects, for planning of implementation of works
which will be affected by road traffic, this Department must be closely
associated from the very beginning.
7.11    The project did not seek sufficiently to institute appropriate policy
changes to support mass transport in a more positively and committed manner.
The private car and taxi, though contributing little to the transport
capacity and efficiency in Bombay is eating rapidly and increasingly into
road space of the city and thereby nullifying whatever gains have been made.
Similarly, the other and most important mass transport system in the BRM,
viz., surface rail, is in dire need of funds for eminently urgent projects.
All these can be the elements of a second and much larger Bank supported
BUTP-II.
7.12    The desired institutional changes in the BMRDA have been initiated,
but only recently. Their effectiveness or otherwise needs to be watched for
some more time.



AS - t, / e    61-i'i  -'v9I



- 25 -
Page 1
List of Originally Included Items for
BEST & BMC and those Executed Actually
As originally included                       Actually Executed
I. Part-A Bus Services (BEST)
1 Procurement and putting in regular service
465 Single Deck Buses       465 Single Deck Buses
* 235 Double Deck Buses      +235 Double Deck Buses
700                         700
2  Procurement of adequate spare parts for the   Adequate spare parts
buses so procured.                             were procured for the
700 buses so procured.
3  Providing Technical Assistance for and         This has been done with
completing a review of Bus Operations and      100l   achievement.
mnagement practices and Training BEST Staff
4  Civil Works, please see Annexure 1-A           Please see Annesure 1-A
IT. Part-B Traffic Circulation
1  Civil Works, please see Annexure 1-A           Please see Annexure 1-A
2  Installation by B.N.C. of Electric Traffic    Improvement to existing
Signals at four intersections.                 signal system in Bombay
as originally envisaged
was expected to be of
relatively minor nature
However as a result of
the recommendation of
the consultants engaged
by BMC for T S M Study
in Bombay it was decided
by BMC and agreed by the
Bank (and BNRDA) to under-
take a major modernization
and improvement in the sys-
tem at 77 junctions at a
cost of Rs. 2.84 crores.
3. Technical Assistance and Training to BMC       Technical Assistance &
Staff.                                         Training as envisaged in
the original project has
been completed.



- 26 -
ANNEX 1-A
Page 1
List of Originally Included Items for
BEST & BMC and those Executed Actually
B.E.S.T.                               BM.C.
Originally          Actually       Originally           Actually
included           executed        included            executed
S.                       or dropped                          or dropped
No.            BUS  DEPOT                              FLY OVERS
1 Coregaon (new)    Goregaon (new)       1 Aurora            Aurora
2  Dharavi (new)     Dharavi (new)       2  Parel            Parel
3  Bandra (new)      Bandra (new)        3  Bharatmata       Dropped
4  Marol (improve-   Marol (improve-    4  Lalbaug           Lalbaug
ment)             ment)
5  Kurla (improve-   Kurla (improve-    5  Gloria Church   Gloria Church
ment)             ment)
6  Worli (improve-   Dropped.            6  Byculla Bridge  Byculla Bridge
ment)
WORKSHOP
7 Dadar (improve-   Dropped              7  Mahim Church    Dropped.
ment)
8 New Workshop       New Workshop at    8  Mahim Causeway  Dropped.
Wadala-Anik
BUS SHELTERS & TERMINI                  CUANNELISATIONS
9  Dahisar           Dahisar             9  Palton Road      Palton Road
10  Chembur           Chembur            10  Cokhale Road    Cokhale Road
11  Andheri           Andheri            11  Abdul Caffar    Abdul Gaffar
12  Borivali          Borivali                Khan Road        Khan Road
13  Goregaon (East)   Goregaon (East)   12 Worli Naka         Worli Yaka
14  Vikhroli          Vikhroli           13  Glazo            Glaxo
15  Ghatkopar         Ghatkopar          14  Veer Savarkar   Band Box
16 Varsova            Varsova                Road
17 Malbar             Malbar             15  Cadell Road      Cadell Road
18  Worli             Worli              16  Hari Niwas       Hari Niwas
19 Govandi            Govandi            17  Lady Hardinge   Lady Hardinge
Road            load
ROAD/BRIDGE WIDENINCS/EXTUBIOgns



-27-
ANNEX 1-A
Page 2
18  Opera House     Dropped
19  Tardeo Circle   Tardeo Circle
20  Drainage         Dropped
Channel Road
21  Sion Railway    Sion Railway
Bridge          Bridge
22  Marine Street   Marine Street
23  Thakurdwar       Thakurdwar
24  S. V. Road       S. V. Road
Bandra          Bandra
PEDESTRIAN BRIDGES
25  King's Circle   King's Circle
Station         Station
26  Sewri            Sewri
PEDESTRIAN TUNNELS
27  Sion J-unction   Sion Junction
28  Sion Circle      Sion Circle
29  Kbhodada4       Dropped
Circle
30  Haji Ali        Haji Ali
Circle          Circle
31  Shivaji Park    Dropped



- 28 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
B.I.S.T.'s Works
S.                          Appraisal Report Dates of  Actual Execution Dates of
No. Name of Sub-project    Commencement   Completion  Commencement   Completion
Bus Depots
1 Goregaon (new)              11/76           12/77         11/76          12/77
2  Dharavi (new).             11/77            7/79          3/78           6/80
3  Bandra (new)                8/77            6/78         11/77           6/80
4  Marol (improvement)         4/77            4/78          5/77           5/78
5  Kurla (improvement)         4/77           12/77          3/77          11/77
6  Worli (improvement)        10/78            4/79           -              -
Workshop
7  Dadar (improvement)         1/78           10/79        Dropped           -
.8 New Workshop                4/78           10/79          3/82       in progress
Bus Shelters/Termini
9  Dahisar                     2/77            8/77          2/77           6/77
10  Chembur                    10/77            4/78          5/77          10/77
lii Andheri                    10/77            4/78          6/78           9/78
12  Borivali                   10/17            4/78         12/78          10/80
13  Coregaon                   10/78            4/79         12/80           3/83
14 Vikhroli replaced by
Vidhya Vihar              10/78            4/79          2/81          8/81
15 Ghatkopar replaced by
Seepz                     10/78            4/79          2/79          8/79
16 Varsova replaced by
Ghatkopar (East)           4/79           10/79          4/83          6/84
17  Malbar                      4/79           10/79        Dropped           -
18  Worli replaced by           4/79           10/79         12/78           5/79
Anushakti Nagar
19  Govandi                     4/79           10/79          1/82           6/83
Flyovers
1 Aurora                       1/77           12/78          4/77           1/79
2 Parel                        1/78           10/79         11/79          10/83
3 Bharatmata                   1/78           10/79        Dropped           -
4 Lalbaug                      1/77            6/78          3/77           6/80



-6 -
--                  ANNEX 2
Page 2
B.E.S.T.'s  Works
S.                          Appraisal Report Dates of  Actual Execution Dates of
No. Name of Sub-project    Commencement   Completion  Commencement   Completion
5 Gloria Church                1/77           10/78          3/77          10/82
6 Byculla Bridge               1/78           10/79         12/79           3/82
7 Mahim Church                 1/78           10/79        Dropped           -
8 Mahim Causeway               1/77            8/78        Dropped           -
Channelisations
9  Palton Road                 11/76           3/77          2/77          11/78
10  Cokhale Road                11/77           4/78          3/78           8/79
11  Abdul Gaffar                10/78           6/79         11/81           2/84
Khan Road
12  Worli Naka                  10/77           6/78         11/81           2/84
13  Glaxo                        1/78.          6/78         10/79           5/80
14 Veer Savarkar Road replac-
by Band Box                10/78           6/79         10/79          5/80
15  Cadell Road                 10/77-          5/78          3/78           8/79
16  Hari Niwas                  12/76           5/77          2/17          11/78
17 Lady Hardinge
Road                        12/16.          5/77          3/78          8/79
Road/Bridge Widenings/Extensions
18  Opera House                 10/77          10/18        Dropped           -
19  Tardeo Circle               11/76           3/77          2/77          11178
20  Drainage                     2/77           9/77        Dropped           -
Channel Road                                                           1/81
21  Sion Railway                11/76          12/78          2/77
Bridge
22  Marine Street                1/77           6/78          3/77           4/78
23  Thakurdwar                  10/77          12/78         10/77           6/79
24  S. V. Road                   1/77           5/77         10/77           5/78
Bandra
Pedestrian Bridges
25  King's Circle               12/76           4/77         11/77          10/81
Station
26  Sewri                       12/76           6/77          3/77          11/77
Pedestrian Tunnels
27  Sion Junction               11/76          12/78         10/77           7/80
28  Sion Circle                 11/76          10/78         10/77           7/80
29  Khodadad                     1/77          12/78        Dropped           -



- 30 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
B.E.S.T.9s Works
S.                          Appraisal Report Dates of  Actual Execution Dates of
No. Name of Sub-project    Commencement   Completion  Commencement   Completion
Circle
30  Haji Ali                    11/76           6/78         10/77           5/80
Circle
31  Shivaji Park                11/77           4/79        Dropped           -



- 31 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
THE BOMBAY ELECTRIC SUPPLY AND TRANSPORT UNDERTAKING
(OF THE MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF GREATER BOMBAY)
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates
--(Rs. in Crores)--------
Item                             Appraisal        Actual Cost
1 BEST
1.1  Buses  Single Deck Chassis              5.37             4.52
Single Deck Bodies               3.70             3.36
Single Deck Spares               0.60             0.47
Double Deck Chassis              5.70             4.75
Double Deck Bodies               3.11             2.82
Double Deck Spares               0.70             0.43
19.18            16.35
Contingencies-Price              3.07              -
Sub-total Buses               22.25             16.35
1.2 Equipment
Workshop                         0.38 )
Machine Shops                    0.42 )           0.99
Depots                           0.22 )
1.02             0.99
Contingencies-Price             0.16               -
Sub-total Equipment             1.18             0.99
1.3 Civil Works
Workshops                        1.93             5.75
Depots                           2.37             3.01
Shelters/Termini                 0.33             0.47
Contingencies                    4.63             9.23
Physical                         0.46              -
Price                            1.22 
Sub-total Civi: Works          6.31              9.23
1.4  Land                                    1.06              -



- 32 -
ANN8X 3
Page  2
----(Rs. in Crores)--------
Item                              Appraisal        Actual Cost
1.5 Technical Assistance/
Training Bus Operation and
Management                             0.22              0.40
Contingencies Price                     0.04               -
Sub-total Tech. Assistance/            0.26              0.40
Training
1.6  Incremental Working Capital             1.76               -
Grand Total                            32.82             26.97



- 33 -
ANNEX 4
Pge1
Bombay Urban Transport Project
Summary Table Showing Original Estimates 1/ and
Actual Costs of Various Items
Original Eatimated Cost
Sr. No.                              vide Annel 7 Pages 1 & 2
Organiza-                              of Appraisal Report             Actual Cost
tion wise    Description of Item    Ra.in Crores   U8$ in H.   Rs.in Crores   US$ in M.
B.E.S.T.
1.1 Buses
Single Deck Chassis           5.37         6.10           4.52           5.46
Double Deck Chassis           5.70         6.47           4.75           5.74
Single Deck Bodies            3.70         4.20           3.36           4.09
Double Deck Bodies            3.11         3.54           2.82           3.41
Single Deck Spares            0.60         0.69           0.47           0.56
Double Deck Spares            0.70         0.80           0.43           0.50
19.18        21.80          16.35          19.76
B.E.S.T.
1.2 Equipment
equipment                     1.02          1.16          0.99           1.18
B.E.S.T. Civil Works
1.3 Civil Works
Workshops                     1.93          2.20          5.75           5.75
Depots                        2.37         2.69           3.01           3.67
Shelters/Termini              0.33         0.37           0.47           0.53
Total Civil Works        4.63         5.26           9.23           9.95
B.E.S.T. Technical Assistance
1.5 Technical Assistance/
Training Bus Operation and
Management                     0.22          0.26          0.40           0.46
Total BEST       25.05         26.48          26.97         31.35
B.N.C. II 1 Equipment
Traffic Control Equipment      0.30         0.35           2.13           2.09
(including contingencies)
1/ Excluding physical and price contingencies.



- 34 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
Original Estimated Cost
Sr. No.                              vide Annex 7 Pages 1 & 2
Organiza-                               of Appraisal Report            Actual Cost
tion wise    Description of Item    Rs.in Crores   US$ in M.   Ri.in Crores   US$ in M.
B.M.C. II 2 Civil Works
Flyovers                       4.11          4.66           4.51           5.05
Intersection Channelisations  0.76           0.86           0.41           0.43
Street widening/Extensions    0.30           0.35           0.05           0.06
Bridge Widening                0.34          0.39           0.31           0.38
Pedestrian Bridges             0.20          0.22           0.20           0.23
Pedestrian Tunnels             L>78          2.02           0.73           0.90
Total Civil Works        7.49          8.50          6.21            7.05
B.M.C. II 4 Technical Assistance
Tech. Assistance/Training    .4.22           0.25           0.53           0.61
Traffic Engineering
Total B.M.C.             8.01          9.10           8.87           9.75
B.M.R.D.A. III 1 Technical
Technical Assistance           0*32          0.34           0.08           0.10
B.M.R.D.A. III 2 Civil Works
Civil Works from BMRDA's
allotment                     -             -              0.12           0.12
Crand Total             33.37         37.91         36.04          41.52
____3     *2
Additional Items Included in Appraisal BePort
(i)   Land                               1.34         1.52           1.34           1.52
(ii) Incremental Working Capital
(BEST)                          1.76          2.00           1.76           2.00
(iii) Contingencies (physical & prie) 8.00           9.08           -              -
11.10        12.60           3.10           3.52
Grand Total                  44.48         50.51          39.14          4f 4
(including i,ii, & iii)



- 35 -
ANX S
Original. Amended and Actusl Catenornvise
AllogtiSn of Loan Amounts
(US$ in million)
As per Original                     As amended vide
Schedule I of     Percentage of  World Bank letter
Catlag-ry            Loin AgrelLegt      R-xpenditure   dAted AUi. 7. 1981   Actual  Remarks
1. Civil Works
(including relocation of
utility facilities)            7.00               50X               7.5             8.40
2. Buses, Bus Components,
workshop equipment and
traffic control equipment    12.00          100l   of foreign      16.0            15.43
expenditure or
(a) Procured by I.C.B.                     1001 of local
expenditure
limited to ex-
factory cost
(b) Otherwise procured                     501 of local
expenditure
3. Technical Assistance and
Training                       1.00              1001               1.5             1.17
4.  Unallocated                    5.00                _                  _



- 36 -                             MU.
amz
SNAMU  DuAl  VZLOIM   PA=ZC  (&M-J332:
Schedle 21Dof  brsm s as of Oct"   1984
(in millions of Us$ equivalent)
Actual                      Cumulative    Act, and get.
Fiscal Year       Cumulative Appraiesl Current        S          Disbursements
an   urehIA r'&        12tal   gstimatg jatiUste  b)bursed    Al I of A123st.
December 31, 1976      -          0.5                   -               0
Warch 31, 1977         -          2.2       -           -               0
June 30, 1977          0.02       5.1       -         0.1               0
n l12l8
September 30, 1977    1.10        7.3       -         4.4               15.1
December 31, 1977      1.50       9.9       -         0.0               15.2
Marcb 31, 1978         3.80      13.1       -         15.2              29.0
June 30, 1978          6.80      15.6       -         27.2              43.6
1n 1979
September 30, 1978    7.30       17.2       -        29.2               42.4
December 31, 1978      8.20      19.8       -        32.8               41.4
Narch 31, 1979        10.00      22.5       -         40.0              44.4
June 30, 1979         11.10      14.1       -        44.4               46.1
n -98m
September 30, 1979   12.00       24.5       -        48.0               49.0
December 31, 1979    13.60       25.0       -         54.4              54.4
March 31, .1980       14.90      25.0       -         59.6              59.6
June 30, 1980  j      15.80      25.0       -        63.2               63.2
PY 1981
September 30, 1980   16.20       -          -        64.8               64.8
December 31, 1980    16.60       -          -        66.4               66.4
March 31, 1981        17.30      -          -        68.0               68.0
June 30, 1981         17.40      -          -        69.6               69.6
FY 19h 2
September 30, 1981   17.60       -          -        70.4               70.4
December 31, 1981    17.80       -          -        71.2               71.2
March 31, 1982        18.10      -          -        72.4               72.4
June 30, 1982         18.40      -          -        73.6               73.6
n-li
September 30, 1982   18.70       -          -        74.8               74.8
December 31, 1982    18.80       -          -        75.2               75.2
March 31, 1983        19.31      -          -        77.2               77.2
June 30, 1983  21    19.63       -          -         78.5              78.5
nP 1984
September 30, 1983   20.23       -          -        80.9               80.9
December 31, 1983    21.49       -          -        86.0               86.0
March 31, 1984        22.16      -          -        88.6               86.0
June 30, 1984  I/    23.14       -          -         92.6              92.6
September 30, 1984   23.83       -          -        95.3               95.3
December 31, 1984    25.00       -          -       100.0              100.0
1/ Original Closing Date of Loan Agreement.
a/ Amended Closing Date, first
V1  Amended Closing Date, second.



THU iC   I              PLYL AND TIWITDDUIN
(OUV'Tim a-MFAL COROfATIloN OF gRBh2  BOMAY
Source & Anlicavtion of Funds
(Whole Undertakina)
(is. in Crores)
Sources of Funds            1973-74  1974-75  1975-76  1976-77  1977-78  1978-79  1979-80  1980811  1981-82  1982-83
Surplus/(Deficit) before            (0.13)    4.36      3.80    10.81      8.20    10.76      5.93     3.07      4.40    12.58
interest and appropriation
Depreciation/Additional              0.56 .   1.93      6.37      6.73     7.79     8.45      8.95    10.62    12.26    14.20
Depreciation.
0.07)
Sales of Assets and Stores           1.98      0.91     0.48     0.12      0.40     0.56      0.31     0.34     0.56      0.43)
Interest on Sinking Fund              -         -       0.88     0.93      0.72     0.77      0.82     0.67     0.68      0.52
Investments.
Sinking Fund Investment -            1.26      1.46      -        0.75     7.15      1.50     4.60     1.65      2.75     1.10
realised to redeem loans.
Deposits - Increase (Decrease)        -         -       1.53     0.82      0.49     0.53      2.13     4.21     3.19      5.06
Increase in Accounts Payable         3.51      3.12    (3.12)    2.35    (2.32)   (0.31)    3.16    (0.37)    6.88    (0.04)
Borrowinas
Open Market                          2.00       -       1.92     0.83      2.20     1.54      2.20     2.20     3.30      1.10
Advance from BX. C.                   -         -       5.02       -        -         -        -        -        3.00      -
B.M. LD.A.                            --                 -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -
World Bank Loans                                -        -        1.50     2.83     4.82      3.23     1.28      0.47     2.40
Central Assistance                    -        7.00      -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -
Loan from Co-operative Banks          -                                                        -                          4.00
Total                          .18    18.78    16.04    24.84    27.46    28.62    31.33    23.67    37.49    41.42
A,,lication - Funds
Fixed Capital Expenditure            7.55      7.41    12.50      5.68    12.74     8.44      8.50    14.92    20.95    19.47
Investment of Sinking Fund:
Current Contribution                (0.34)   (1.75)    1.14       1.19     1.08     1.25      1.27     1.19       -        -
Interest re-invested                  -         -       0.88     0.93      0.72     0.77      0.82     0.67      0.68     0.52



Sources of Funds          1273-74  1974-75  1975-76  1976-77  1977-78  1978-79  1979-80  1980-81  1981-82  1982-83
Increase (Decrease) in              (0.6)    2.81      0.16    (1.27)    1.04    (0.30)    2.55)    5.51       0.25    (0.95)
Inventories.
lcrease (Decrease) in               1.45     4.85    (1.56)    0.17    (0.10)    0.96       0.55      0.98     4.70    (0.02)
Accounts Receivable.
Debt Service
Interest on loans contracted
before 1.4.76                        1.40      1.50     2.95     2.77      2.26     2.13     1.83      1.33     0.76      0.64
Interest on loans contracted
after 1.4.76                          -        -         -       0.02      0.23     0.22     0.28      0.37     0.91      1.54
Interest and comaituents charges
on World lank Loans.                  -        -         -        -        0.19     0.67     0.93      1.11     0.93     0.82
Otber Misc. Loan charges.             -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -       0.03     0.03
Repayment on loans contracted
before 1.4.1976                      1.81     1.96      0.47     2.10      8.90     2.97     6.43      7.45     2.75      1.10
Repayment on lotus contracted
after 1.4.1976                        -        -         -        -        0.50     1.00      -         -       1.00      2.00
Repayment of World Bank Loan          -        -         -        -         -        -        -        2.05     2.26      1.66
Sub-total Debt Services          3.21     3.4      3.42      4.89    12.08      6.99     9.47    12.31      8.64     7.79
Advances to Suppliers/Deferred
Revenue Expenditure.                  -         -      (2.90)   (0.37)   (0.92)   (0.13)    3.49       3.38    (1.57)   (0.72)
Obsolescence of Stores (Trans-
ferred to Revenue Account)           -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -       0.35       -
Payment to third parties/write
off from Property Insurance          -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -       0.23      0.54
Payment of levies to Govt. of
Hdharasbtra.                         -         -       2.75     1.29      1.31     1.48      1.55     1.77     2.05      2.50
Payment of Statutory Contribution
to INC (Section 4601K)               -        -         -       3.95      0.40     0.40      -         -        -        0.41
Transfer to BNC (Sec. 460LL)          -         -        -       0.17       -       0.23                -        -         -
Increase in other Assets/
Work-in-progress.                    0.12       -       0.26    (0,20)      -       0.07    (0.08)    .7Z4    (0.61)    1.50
Total Application                 1l.53    16.78    126A.    16.63    28.35    20.16    28.12    42.47    35.08    31.04
Gross cash surplus/(Deficit)        (2.35)    2.00    (0.61)    8.21    (0.89)    8.46        3.21   (18.80)    2.41    10.38
Cash at the beginning of the year   6.74      4.40      6.41     5.80    14.01    13.12    21.58    24.79        5.99     8.40
Cash provision                        -             -         -             -        -         -        -         -        -
Cash at the end of the year          4.40     6.41      5.80    14.01    13.12    21.58    24.79       5.99     8.40    18.78



THE EGKBAY ELECTRIC SUPPLY AID TRANSPORT UNDERTAKING
-O-(  TH LUICIPAL CORPORATION 0F GREATER BOMBAY)
Perforumgce Indicators
1976-77                1977-78                  1978-79                 1979-80
Sr.                                           World Bank                World Bank              World Bank              World Bank
Lo.                Iten                      Projection   Actual      Proiection    Actual   Proiection   Actual    Proiection    Actual
1.  Fleet wned at the end of the year               1728        1667         1828        1817       1902         1884        1976        1929
2. Average effective fleet                          1628       1614          1719        1676       1805         1803        1879        1882
3.  Scheduled turnout at the end of the
year.                                           1497       1515          1581       1661        1661        1724         1729       1770
4.  Daily Avg. No. of buses in service.             1497        1486         1S81        1541       1661         1665        1729        1739
5.  nleet utiliattion on Avg. effective            91.95%     92.06S        91.97S       922       92.022       92.352         922      92.602
fleet.
6. Avg. carrying capacity at the end of             75          75           75          76         75           76          75          77
the year.
7.  Scheduled Service Ims.:
(a) Total                              121110387  123119124    128501072  128685011  135628356   139383322   141831474  149047362
(b) Daily Average                         351809      337313       352058      352562      571585      381872      351809      407233
8. Run Services FWa  (effective)
(a) Total                              117477075  120299698    124646040  124622049  1315595v;  133483047   137576530  139101787
(b) Daily Average                         321855      329688       341496      342368     360437       365707      376922      380060
tc) Vehicle Utilization (fas.)                215        222           216      222.2         217       219.6          216     218.60
9. Kms. lost -
(a) Engineering                          1816565        N.A.      1927516    1120368    2034425       1071862     2127472    1522769
(b) Traffic                              1816565        N.A.       1927516    2991703    2034425      4907097     2127472    3422806
(c) Total                               36353121    2819428       3855032    4112071    4068851       5978959     4254944    3964575
10.  Passengers carried
(a) Total yearly                      1121537564 1205011737   1204501837 1290805677 1269271440  1440344710  1344047230 1519912746
(b) Daily Average                        3072151    3301402       3300005    3546169    3477456       3946155     3682321    4152767
(c) Per bus per day                         2052        2222          2087       2301        2094        2370         2150       2338
11. Earnings
(a) Total yearly (Rs.)                 327412569  350188554    351695265  372485101  370606952   415192506   392440286  440985692
(b) Daily Average (Re.)                   897021      959421       963549    1023311    1015362       1137513     1075179    1204879
(c) Per bus per day (Re.)                     599        646           609        644         611         683          622        693
(d) Per bus Km. (Paise)                   278.70      291.10        262.16     298.89     281.70       311.04      285.25      517.02
(e) Per seat la. (Paise)                    3.72        3.88         3.76        3.93       3.76         4.09         3.80       4.12
(f) Per passenger (Paise)                  29.20       29.06        29.20       28.86      29.20        28.82        29.20      29.01
12.  Avg. fate paid per seat R. (Paise)              5.28       5.28          5.28        5.30       5.28         5.31        5.28        5.33    i x
13.  Avg. passengers lead (KmT.)                     5.53       5.50          5.S3        5.64       5.53         5.42        5.53        5.64
14.  Load Factor 2                                  70.45      73.50         71.21          74      71.21           77       71.97       77.30



1980-81            1981-82*      1982-83*    1983-84*
Sr.                                          World Bank
No.                 Item                      Proiection   Actual*        Actuals       Actuals      Actuals
1.  Fleet owned at the end of the year             2050       2049         2168           2291        2325
2. Average effective fleet                         1953       1938         2052           2190        2289   Year    * Remarks
3. Scheduled turnout at the end of the                                                                       -         - -
year.                                          1797       1872         1979          2095         2129  1980-81  Due fare increase
4. Daily Avg. No. of buses in service.             1779       1887          1778          1964        2070           v.e.f. 21.8.1980
5. Fleet utilization on Avg. effective               922     92.181       91.522         89.672      90.452          and 23.3.1981
fleet.
6. Avg. carrying capacity at the end of              74         7?           77             76          75  1981-82  Passenger per bus reduced
the year.                                                                                                        due to textile mills strike
from 18.1.1982.
7.  Scheduled Service Bns.:
(a) Total                             148085768  153140371    162368193      169502652   175681703
(b) Daily Average                        405714      419563       444844        464391      480005  1982-83  Bus fare increases
8. Run Services Ras (effective)                                                                                      w.e.f. 1.4.1982
(a) Total                             143643195  140938955    144558784      151706146   157732060
(b) Daily Average                        395543      386134       396051        415636      430962
(c) Vehicle Utilization (las.)              219      216.10        210.9         211.6       208.2
9. Mas. lost -
(a) Engineering                         2221287    2529327       2582947       3183581     2833351
(b) Traffic                             2221286    9737453      15309340      14158577    15215660
(c) Total                               4442573   12266760      17892237      17342158    18049011
10. Passengers carried
(a) Total yearly                     1420865006 1567718211   1482048460    1327694699  1336782907
(b) Daily Average                       3892731    4295118       4060407       3657520     3652412
(c) Per bus per day                        2166        2403         2162          1852         1764
11. larnings
(a) Total yearly (Is.)                414869848  505005647    583294124      711241465   734829661
(b) Daily Average (Rs.)                 1136630    1383577       1598066       1948607     2007731
(e) Per bus per day (Rs.)                   633         775          851        992.16      969.92
(d) Per bus Mm. (Paise)                  288.82      358.32       403.50        468.83      445.87
(e) Per seat 1a. (Paise)                   3.90        4.60         5.24          6.17        6.13
(f) Per passenger (Paise)                 29.20       32.21        39.36         53.57        54.97
12. Avg. fare paid per seat K. (Paise)              5.28       5.89         7.14           9.12        8.97                                     n2
13. Avg. passengers lead (Ils.)                     5.53       5.47         5.63           5.86        6.11
14. Load Factor 2                                  73.86      78.83           75             68          68
No W. S. ProjectioDs    - 



THE BOMBAY ELECTRIC SUPPlY AND TRANSPORT UNDERTAKING
(OF THE MNICIPAL CORPORATION OF GTEATER BOMBAY)
Best Electricity - Income and Expense Statement
(Rs.in lakhs)
1973-74  1974-75  1975-76  1976-77  1977-78  1978-79  1979-80  1980-81  1981-82  1982-83
Onerat-in  Revenue
a) Traffic Earnings from Passengers    1878        2526      2928     3497      3721      4--5     4405      5403      5825    7100
b) Reserved Buses                            2        4         4         5        4         5         5        7        10      13
c) Advertisement Receipts                   23       32        29       32        38        19       48        56        59      70
d) Cost of Bus Tokens                       69       70        76       138      146       152       158      197       232     274
e) Payment from State Govt. for free        10       10        10       10        10        17       17        17        20      23
travel facility to Police                                                                                          - _  _  _  _  .   -
Total                   1982      2642      3047     3919      3919     4370      4633      5        6146    7480
Oneratina Expenses                         1927     2492      2746     3070      3498      3698     4248      5222     6234    7106
Depreciation & Addl. Depreciation          272      354       477      486       601       658      692       834       971    1139
Total Operating Expenses            2199      2846     3223      3556       099,    435 6      940     6056      7205    8245
Operating Surplus (deficit)                (217)    (204)    (176)       126     (180)       14     (307)    (736)   (1059)   (765)
Ron-Oserat Ma Income
1. Traffic Other receipts                     5        5         4        18        8        14       15        15        55      30
2. Engineering Misc. Receipts                 1        4         5         7        8         9        13        6         8      13
3. Rent of Buildings and Land                 2        2         3         3        3         3         3        6         9       9
4. Share of General Administration
Income                                  37        38       47        35      __S3       59        83        69      . _       72
Total                      45        49        59       63        72       223      114        96        i4     124
Net Income                                 (172)    (155)    (177)       189     (108)       99     (193)    (640)    (945)   (641)
Interest (excluding interest on             49        51       196      183       188       223      231       229       216     266
Internla Funds)
Net Income after interest                  (221)    (206)    (313)         6     (296)    (124)    (424)    (869)   (1161)   (907)
Taxation                                     94       94       147      129       131        94      155       177       205     250
Net Surplus after Taxation                 (315)    (332)    (460)    (123)    (427)    (272)    (579)   (1046)   (1366)  (1157)
Ratios-Working Ratio
Oeeratina Expenses                           97       94        90        83       89        85       92        98       101      95   . 
Operating Revenue
Operating Ratio                                                                                                                          x
Total Oneratina Expenses                    111      108       106        97      105       106      107       114       117     110  %j'
Operating Revenue
Appropri#tion A/c.                           -        -         -         74       92       159       199      237       260     305
Interest on Internal Funds



ODeratinR Revenue
Electricity Sales
a) Sale of Energy by Meter               1737      2416      2828     4064      4317      4981     5165      6611     9438   11827
b) Street Lightin Energy Charges            23       29        29       30        32        33       35        42        72     181
Total                    1760      2445      2857     4094      4349      5014     1760      1760     1760   12008
Workinx ExDenses
Purchase of Electricity                    1232     1739      2152      2865     3025      3616     3964      5179      7581    9504
Distribution Cost                           338      412       434       468      553       574      635       728       843     973
Total Working Expenses                     1570     2151      2586      3333     3578      4190     4599      5907      8424   10477
Depreciation 6 Addl. Depreciation           136      146       160       170       176      187       203      227       255     280
Total Operating Expenses                   1706     2297      2746      3503     3754      4377     4802      6134      8679   10757
Operating Surplus                            54      148       111       591      595       637      398       519       831    1251
Non-Operatina Income
a) Street-lighting contract charges         87      140       106       155      159       163      169       212        87      87
b) Sales services                           46       49        48        60       52        54        55       57        46      46
c) Hire and repairs to electrical
appliances                             11        13        16       16        16        15       14        15       11       11
d) Miscellaneous Receipts                   26       41        30        36       35        42        40       41        26       26
e) Share of General Adun. Income           37        38        46        42       62        71       97        90        37      37
Total                      207      281       246      299       324       345      375       415       207     207
Net Income                                  261      429       357       890      919       982       773      934       261     261
Interest                                     91       998                 96       85        80        73       51        91      91
Net-Surplus after Interest                  170      330       259       794      834       902       700      875       170     170
Ratio-working Ratio
Wcrkin  E.uenses                             89       88        91        81        82       84        88       89        89       87
Operating Revenue
Operating Ratio
Total Oneratina Exuenses                     97       94        96        86       86        87        92       92        91       90
Operating Revenue
Appropriation A/c.
Interest on Internal Funds                  83       84       136        73       92       156       199      237       260     305
Contingencies Reserves                      25       17        10        22       23        25        26       28        30      36



THE BOMY ELCTRIC SUPP   AND TRANSPORT UNDERTAXIG
(OF THE MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF GREATER BOMBAY)
Statement of Reserves and Auprogriations (Actuals)
(Rs.in lakhe)
1273-74  1947!75  1975-76  1976-77  1977-78  1978-79  1979-80  198O-81  1981-82  1982-43
Net Surplus after Interest and
Tax (from operating statements)
Electricity                         170     330      259        794      834      902        700     875      1322       1845
Transport                          (315)   (332)    (460)      (123)    (427)    (272)      (579)  (1046)    (1366)    (1157)
Sub-total for B.E.S.T.                 (145)     (2)      (201)     671      407      630       121     (171)     (44)       688
Previous balance brought forward         -        -                  -        -        130      260       _ -                 -
Transfer to BMC                          -        -         -       395       40        40       -                            41
Agyro2riations:
Financial Reserve:
Electricity                         83      84      136         73      92      156        199     237      260        305
Transpovt                               -    -   -   -          74      92      156        199  -  237   -  260        305
I
Electric Supply
Contingency Reserve                 25      17        10        22      23       25         26      28       30         36
Property Insurance Fund                                          5      20        53
Third Party    )                                                58       8        12
Insurance Fund )                                                13       -        17
Revenue Reserve Fund                                            13       -        17
B.E.S.T. Betterment Fund
Welfare Fund                                                    11       -        15
Municipal Fund                      -  108- -  101   -  146    6 275   2  237   9  460   -  424   -  502   -  550   -   646
*        @
Surplus (Deficit)                      (253)    (103)    (347)        1      130       260      (43)    (673)    (594)         1
* Retained as provision for ex-gratia payment in lieu of bonus for 1977-78
@ Retained as a provision for ex-gratia payment in lieu of bonus for 1978-79
and settlement of demands with the Representative Unions.                                                                           0



- 44 -
ANE  11
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Financins of the Proiect
(Rs.in lakhs)
Total
Organization/                            Expenditure          Financina Pattern
Cateaorv    Descrintion of CategorV   ineurred       BEST       MC    8MRDA    W.8.    Recaks
BEST
I Civil Works:
a) Workshop                        575.00      287.50       -      -     287.50
b) Depots                          301.00      150.50       -      -     150.50
c) Cost of Land (Goregaon)            2.48       2.48       --
4) Shelters Termini                 47.00       23.50       -      -       23.50
e) Cost of land (Andheri,
Vidya Vihar, Govandi,
Goregaon)                       39.15       39.15      -       -     670.00
-- Buses, Bus, Bus component and
Transport equipment:
a) Single & double decker
Chassis 700 nos.               926.00      256.00      -       -     670.00
b) Spares & equipment              189.00       50.00       -      -     139.00
c) Single and double decker
bodies                         618.00      318.00      -       -     300.00
III Technical Assistance & Training:
a) Technical Assistance &
Training                         39.00         -        -       -      39.00
31C
I Civil Works:
a) Flyovers (5)                    463.00         -    233.00      -     232.00
b) Channelizations (11)             50.00         -     25.00      -      25.00
c) Road & bridge widening (2)       36.00         -     18.00      -      18.00
d) Foot over bridge (3)              20.00        -      10.00     -       10.00
e) Pedestrian Tunnels               72.00         -     36.00      -      36.00
II Traffic Control Equipment:
a) Purchase of signal & wireless
equipment and installation    194.00          -       -        -     194.00
b) Traffic counters and micro-
computer                         9.00         -       -        -       9.00
c) Ducting for laying signal
cables                          24.00         -     12.00      -      12.00
III Consultancy & Training:
a) Consultancy and training
including Traffic System
Management Plan and New
Signal Consulancy                53.00         -       -        -      53.00
BM
I Civil Works:
a) Approach Road to Dharavi Depot  12.00          -        -       6       6.00
TI Technical Assistance & Training:
a) Technical Assistance
and Training                     8.00         -                -8.00
Total       3.679.63   1.127.33  334.00       6   2.212.50



- 45 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 6
BANK'S COMMENTS ON PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Summary of Findings and Lessons
5.      BEST Operating and Financial Performance.  A primary project objec-
tive, maintaining and improving the operating efficiency of the bus transport
services of the Bombay Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking (BEST) was
achieved (para 4.01) 1/. Improvements sought in the financial performance
were only lartially achieved. An operating ratio in the BEST's Transport
Wing of 100 or less by 1980/81 was targeted and reached in 1976/77 and
1978/79 (para 5.01), but deteriorated to between 107 and 119 from 1979/80
1983/84. Were it not for large increases in fuel and wage costs due to the
OPEC oil price increase of 1978 and the reluctance of the Bombay Municipal
Corporation (BMC) to sanction the large fare increases which were needed to
keep up with costs, BEST might well have maintained the target operating
ratio.
6.      The Bank's participation in the project added extra weight to BEST
management's persistent efforts to obtain fare increases and probably helped
to constrain the level of transport losses.  But there were not sufficient
substantive grounds for the Bank to cake a stronger stand than it did on the
issue of cost recovery and fare increases for the following reasons: (i) the
target operating ratio was indicative, not covenanted; (ii) surpluses were
available from BEST's Electric Wing operations (except in 80181 and 81/82) to
subsidize Transport Wing losses; (iii) the provisions for depreciation and
interest charged on internal funds invested in operations were substantial;
(iv) BEST's operating productivity remained relatively high; and (v) costs
were increasing rapidly after 1978 due to external factors.
7.      Had BEST been required as part of the Loan Agreements to maintain and
to meet the targets of a more detailed financial and operating plan, includ-
ing specific provisions for financing capital investments in bus operations
from internal cash generation and reflecting the effects of productivity
I/ Paras with two digits after the decimal point refer to the PCR; paras
with no digits after the decimal point refer to this memorandum.



-46 -                          ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 6
improvements, there might have been a better basis for discussing the fare
revision issue (though not necessarily a better case). However, the question
of funding BEST's capital investment from retained earnings was relegated to
a study (para 8) and it proved difficult to make out the case for fare revi-
sions on the basis of BEST's operating performance and the financial
forecasts required of BEST under the Loan Agreements.
8.      Retention of Surpluses by BEST.  Changes sought by the Bank and
recommended in a consultant study to regularize funding of BEST's bus invest-
ment program from internal cash generation were not implemented by BMC (para
3.07). This caused several short deferments in bus purchases (outside the
project). But BEST's overall and project investment in bus operations was
not seriously affected. Surpluses were generally available for bus purchases
and operations from the BEST Electricity Supply operation, from provisions
for depreciation and interest on internal funds reinvested in BEST charged as
an expense and from BMC short term loans to BEST.
9.      Nevertheless, the project experience indicates that it would still be
desirable to establish: (i) firm targets for funding BEST's transport opera-
tions out of retained surpluses (as BMC does for its Water Supply and
Sewerage Department); and (ii) more objective and equitable mechanisms for
bus fare revisions, linked to bus operating productivity targets and, pos-
sibly, to price increases in major operating cost items.
10.     Traffic Management (TM).  The project developed a significant
appreciation for the importance of traffic management and bus and
pedestrian-oriented traffic and transport policy in the BMC. A large traffic
signals system component added to the project late in the project cycle, has
a high benefit cost ratio (para 31). The project created new institutional
arrangements for BMC-Traffic Police (State Government) collaboration on TM
(para 6.06).  On the negative side, traffic engineering expertise in BMC,
successfully created through project training programs, is in danger of being
lost, because TM staff recruited from BMC's general civil engineering cadre
to the Traffic Management Cell must move out of it to be promoted. The
status and emoluments of the Traffic Management Cell need to be increased
in order to retain expert traffic management staff. Many aspects of the TM
plan have not been implemented, particularly to control parking, to restrain
the use of the private car and to give priority to buses. Attempts by the
Traffic Police, with BMC's compliance, to implement selected aspects of the
TM plan were successful for a time, but ultimately were abandoned due to
opposition from a powerful minority of car owners and shop keepers and lack
of political support and police enforcement.
11.     Regional Investment Planning.  The project objective of improving
regional investment planning (particularly for mass transport) by strengthen-
ing BMRDA is being achieved, but much more gradually than anticipated for the
following reasons: (i) the modest size of the project and its scope being
chiefly for bus transport and TM in and for the BMC; (ii) a number of State,



- 47 -
ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 6
Central Government ard Local Government agencies who are involved in tran-
sport in the Bombay Region finding no place in the project or in the
organizational structure of BMRDA; and (iii) investment planning being con-
fined largely to agencies funded in the State budget. These factors and the
absence of an effective institutional arrangement for coordinating agencies
responsible to different levels of government imparted an academic quality to
BMRDA's investment planning efforts. We agree with BMRDA that "the project
did not seek sufficiently to institute appropriate policy changes to support
mass transport...surface rail is in dire need of funds" (para 7.11) and that
a larger, multi-modal, multi-agency regional transport project would be a
better vehicle for affecting policy changes and rationalizing transport
investment. We also agree with recommendations of BMRDA and the National
Transport Policy Committee of the Government of India that unified
Metropolitan Transport Authorities be set up in metropolitan cities, with
effective links to metropolitan development authorities such as BMRDA.
12.     Technical Assistance and Training. The results of BUTP technical
assistance and training were mixed: it contributed significantly to the
strengthening of the status and capability of BMC's TM staff, and also
created a permanent traffic management capability in the traffic police.
Technical assistance also improved BEST's operating performance, but was
relatively ineffectual in strengthening the BMRDA or assisting BEST to design
and implement the aus workshop financed under the project. Technical assis-
tance to BMRDA was ineffective largely because it was intended to strengthen
BMRDA's broad regional planning and investment programming capacity which was
given low priority in BMRDA's work program for the reasons mentioned in
para 11. Technical assistance to BEST for bus workshop feasibility studies
and designs foundered on a dispute between BEST and its consultants over the
quality of the consultant's work and - possibly - on sensitive issues con-
cerning the productivity of BEST's workshop employees. Nevertheless BEST was
able to successfully design and implement the workshop without consultants,
although taking substantially more time than BEST had planned (para 16).
Comments on PCR Findings
13.     BMRDA Reorganization.  Early in the implementation of BUTP, both the
Bank and COM concluded that BMRDA's cumbersome executive structure and its
internal organization were inappropriate to an institution that was intended
to plan and coordinate regional investment and development.
14.     GOM's view, which the Bank shared, was that the organization of BMRDA
in functional Boards under separate Chairmen (for water and sewerage, tran-
sport, etc.) tended to replicate existing tendencies for policies and invest-
ments in each sector, functional agency and branch of Government to be exces-
sively separate from those in other sectors, agencies and branches of govern-
ment. Also BMRDA's internal arrangements for inter-sectoral investment
planning and coordination in a weak economic planning cell were inadequate.



- 48 -                      ANNEX 12
Page 4 of 6
1S.     In the context ot the Bombay Urban Development Project (BUDP), this
resulted in the abolishment of the functional Boards in 1984 and a reor-
ganization of BMRDA which upgraded the status of regional planning in a new
BMRDA Planning Division. We anticipate that in the reorganized BMRDA, over-
all planning will achieve equal status with sectoral planning, which should
continue to be strengthened within BMRDA. However, the PCR views the reor-
ganization of BMRDA as a subordination of sectoral planning to central o-
regional planning (para 2.05).
16.     Wadala Bus Workshop.  When BUTP closed on June 30, 1984, none of the
workshop facilities were completed and operating. This has not damaged
project objectives. Because of a dispute between BEST and its consultants
over the workshop design, changes in the design when BEST undertook the
design internally and delays in land acquisition, workshop construction began
very late in the project period. At the time that BEST took over the design
of the workshop, an urgent need for expanded workshop maintenance capacity
was forecast. BEST scheduled its construction program for early completion
of the buildings required for critical activities (in engine overhaul and
chassis repair) for which there was insufficient capacity in the existing
Dadar Workshop. The extensions of the BUTP closing date were intended to
cover the financing and completion of the critical facilities with Loan
funds.
17.     Most of the construction of these critical facilities was completed
by February 1985 when Loan funds were fully drawn and operations were
scheduled to begin in them in 1986. Meanwhile, there was less immediate
pressure to activate critical workshop facilities because of an unanticipated
slackening in the demand for BEST bus transport in 1983 and 1984 (para 7.05).
The existing Dadar workshop was able to meet maintenance needs, albeit at
lower efficiency and higher costs than those anticipated in the new Wadala
facility.
Items Not Discussed in the PCR
18.     Appraisal Quality.  The Bank correctly identified a need to improve
the planning and coordination of transport investments, policies and
programs, to encourage traffic and transport policies and programs focused on
maximizing the capacity of existing facilities (through TM), emphasizing the
movement of people, meaning mass transport (buses) and pedestrians, rather
than merely vehicles, and achieving full recovery of bus transport costs.
19.      For the transport planning and investment coordination objectives,
probably the project was too small and its scope was too narrow. However,
BUTP, along with the Bank's Bombay water supply and sewerage projects, firmly
established the Bank's relations with the organizations responsible for
managing urban services in Bombay and laid the base for the next generation
of Bank projects (Bombay Urban Development, Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage
III and the proposed Bombay Urban Transport II).



-49 -                    A=1
ANNEX 12
Page 5 of 6
20.     The appraisal was thorough, except possibly in respect of the
scheduling of civil engineering works on flyovers in relation to traffic
movements; arranging for early police involvement in construction scheduling
and seeking changes in provisions in civil works contracts which contribute
to inefficient implementation.
21.     Impact of Bank Participation.  The Bank's participation in the
project contributed significantly to BEST efforts to obtain BMC sanction for
fare revisions, to efficient and equitable procurement practices, (paras
3.25-3.27), to the acceptance of Traffic Management as a priority element of
traffic and transport policy and to the development of BMRDA as a planning
institution (paras 6.20-6.11).
22.     Supervision.  The supervision of the project was satisfactory.  Rela-
tively littli staff time was devoted to it from 1979 onwards, reflecting the
basic capability and soundness of staff, organization and management in the
project implementing agencies. The same project officer supervised BUTP from
after Board presentation until its completion and was able to draw on sub-
stantial staff skills in the agencies (some individuals have been used as
consultants to Bank missions on other projects) and the skill and experience
in Bank, consultant and divisional staff as required from time to time to
deal with special issues.
23.     Bank/Borrower Relationship.  An excellent working relationship has
been established with the Borrower and the project implementing agencies,
partly made possible by the continuity of key officials in BMRDA, implement-
ing agencies and government. (BEST's General Manager, BMC's Director of
Engineering Services and BMRDA's Transport and Communications Division Chief
continued in their posts throughout the life of BUTP and one BMRDA
Metropolitan Commissioner subsequently became the BMC Municipal Cai'-
sioner).
24.     Reporting and Monitoring.  All implementing agencies' systems for
reporting project progress were relatively satisfactory based largely on the
normal management information systems of the agencies. These formed the
basis of quarterly reports regularly received by the Bank and exceptional
reports which were prepared for missions by BMRDA and implementing agencies.
BMRDA's Transport and Communications Board (now the Transport and Communica-
tions Divisicn) maintained an excellent system for forecasting project expen-
ditures and disbursements, especially during the final years of BUTP.
25.     Economic Rr-evaluation.  For the economic evaluation of the traffic
circulation component, quantitative benefit data are only available for one
of the project flyovers compLeted relatively early in the project implementa-
tion period. The rate of return on this flyover is about the same as the SAR
estimated rate of return of about 20X.



ANNEX 12
- 50-                      Page 6 of 6
26.     The other flyover projects, constituting the largest proportion of
the costs of the traffic circulation component, took much longer to build and
cost more (in constant prices) than the SAR estimated. Consequently, the
econamic rate of return on the traffic circulation components is likely to be
less than the 24% estimated in the SAR.
27.     The SAR economic evaluation of the bus replacement component compared
(i) the capital and operating costs of new, project replacement buses with
those of overaged buses; and (ii) the benefits of operating new buses with
operating old buses. Benefits were defined as the additional revenue (at
cons:ant 1975 fare levels) due to the additional kilometrage and additional
passenger travel obtained from operating new buses in place of old buses.
28.     The buses procured under the project cost substantially less than
the SAR estimate. Actual operating costs of new and old buses .(in constant
prices) and the kilometrage output were substantially the same as assumed in
the SAR. The passenger load factor exceeded the SAR estimate for the first
four years of the project as did the total number of passengers carried on
which benefit estimates were based. Thus, actual costs were less than the
SAR estimate and benefits were equal to or greater than the 3AR estimate.
Consequently the economic rate of return on bus replacement was equal to or
greater than the SAR estimate of 40%. (The financial rate of return was
lower than the SAR forecast because actual revenue increases from 1975
thro-igh 1981 of about 78% were lower than the SAR estimate of 115%).
29.     For bus augmentation, "costs" were estimated as new bus capital and
operating costs and "benefits" as the total fare revenue from the additional
service due to additional project buses. As actual costs and revenues
related to project augmentation buses moved as described in para 28 above,
the economic rate of return on bus augmentation must have been equal to or
greater than the SAR estimate of 27%.
30.    The traffic signals system (TSS) installation (74 intersections in
sit networks) was completed in December 1984. BMC's consultants evaluated
the initial benefits of the system in May 1985 in the contest of the Traffic
Systems Management Plan which was prepared by the same consultants under the
project.
31.    The Consultants concluded that the signals system gave a very good
return on investment and was a success from an operational point of view.
The value of the fuel saved annually by reduced vehicle delays amounts to
about 40% of the $2.1 million cost of the signals system, without including
the value of passenger time saved and greater pedestrian safety and would be
equivalent to an economic rate of return of over 20%. Although the TSS
all:ws much more time for pedestrians to cross, speeds on the links served by
the TSS were about the same in 1985 as in 1978, even though traffic flows had
increased over 20% and the signal timings remained to be tuned to higher
efficiency. The project was generally successful in achieving a high overal
economic rate of return (between 10% to 402 depending on the component)
despite the reduction in the rate of return on flyover investments, which
amounted to only about 30% of project cost.



- 51 -
ANNEX 13
GOVERNMET  COMENTS
LNC K KSY35STEM
EDS12
IU * TCP He
i m  JZ905 IN 15/05:17 OUT 15/05:23
3166175 fINE IN
OAMSH CRASH CRASH MESAGE Pt
FROM $HRI SUNARM KRISHNA UNDR SECY ECOFAIRS REU  ELMI
TO MI CH VASUDEV ADVISER TO ED ( INDIA) INOTAFRAD  ASNINSTON
KiDl1Y PASS ON THE FOLLOVINO MESS    TO YUKIORI VATAA   OF BOED)
QUOTE:   PLEASE REFER T THE  RT PROJECT COPETION RPOR  IN
RESPECT OF     Y URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT LOA  1335-IN(.)
UNILE IE ARE IN  ENAL AGREENENT VITH THE CONTNS     TE PCR
OLRONLY COMMENT J UItH,REGARD TO PA  1.03  URM   THE BANK HAS
OBSERVED TMA  DETERIORATION IN TIE MASS TRANSOT SYSTEM VA$ LIKELY TO
RESTRICT ACCESS TO LABOUR NMETS AND COTSTRAIN ECONOMIC amROUT
OF MAY ND ILTIMATELY THT OF INDIA (.)  THIS OBSERVATION
PERTAINS TO TIHE POSITION PRIOR T PROJECT INTERVENTION 4.)
THE FOMUATION AS IT APPEARS IN PARA (111  OF  HE SUAR AND
CONCLUSIONS OF THE SRA  WULD BE MORE APPROPRIATE (.)   THREO
THE LAST SENTENCE OF-PARA 1.03 OF THE PCR MAY BE SUBSTITUTED BY
THE LAST SENTECE OF PARA (111) OF SUMRY AND CONCLUSIONS OF THE
SRA  4.)   REOARDS (.)  UNUTE (.)  REGARDS 4.)
MESSAGE NO 2160     DATED 15/5/1"6   KEMAL
KKK
1MT: Para. 1.03 of the ?CR bas bees amded &cco?dtagly.
205150646
HNNN



